  C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                            - 26
                                                          ABSTRACT
  A method comprising receiving a security profile configurable by a card party, storing
  the security profile in a database, receiving a transaction request to activate a
5 transaction card, determining whether the transaction request satisfies the security
  profile's one or more requirements.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONFIGURING RISK TOLERANCE IN
                                                           TRANSACTION CARDS
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
 5
   The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application Nos.
   2011268018 AND <removed-apn>, both as originally filed and both as amended, is
   incorporated herein by reference.
10 Field of the Invention
   The present invention generally relates to a processing and activation system
   providing card parties with the ability to configure risk tolerance for each transaction
   card, e.g. gift cards, debit cards, and credit cards, program that is created.
15
   Background of the Invention
   The market for transaction cards such as merchant gift cards continues to grow. With
   the growth of the transaction card market, fraud involving stored-value cards has
20 increased. Additionally, card parties have previously been unable to easily configure
   their stored-value card programs to address the increasing fraud to suit each card
   party's own risk tolerance. Accordingly, it is desirable to develop a system and
   method that allows card parties to easily configure their stored-value card programs
   to address fraud.
25
   Summary of the Invention
   The problems noted above are solved in large part by a method that comprises:
   receiving a security profile associated with and configurable by a card party, storing
30 the security profile in a database, receiving a transaction request from a point of sale
   to activate a transaction card associated with the card party, determining whether the

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -2
   transaction request satisfies a first requirement stored in the security profile,
   activating the transaction card based on the determination indicating that the
   transaction request satisfies the first requirement, and transmitting an indication of the
   activation of the transaction card to the point of sale.
 5
   Another illustrative embodiment includes a system that comprising a database and a
   processor. The processor is configured to receive a security profile associated with
   and configurable by a card party, store the security profile in the database, receive a
   transaction request from a point of sale to activate a transaction card associated with
10 the card party, determine whether the transaction request satisfies a first requirement
   stored in the security profile, activate the transaction card based on the determination
   indicating that the transaction request satisfies the first requirement, and transmit an
   indication of the activation of the transaction card to the point of sale.
15 Yet another illustrative embodiment includes a computer-readable medium encoded
   with a computer program comprising instructions that when executed cause one or
   more processors to: receive a security profile associated with and configurable by a
   card party, store the security profile in the database, receive a transaction request
   from a point of sale to activate a transaction card associated with the card party,
20 determine whether the transaction request satisfies a first requirement stored in the
   security profile, activate the transaction card based on the determination indicating
   that the transaction request satisfies the first requirement, and transmit an indication
   of the activation of the transaction card to the point of sale.
25 Brief Description of the Drawings
   For a detailed description of various disclosed embodiments, reference will now be
   made to the accompanying drawings in which:
30 Figure 1 is a front perspective view of a representative individual transaction card;
   Figure 2 is a front perspective view of a package assembly for securing one or more

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -3
   individual transaction cards;
   Figure 3 is a schematic representation of a transaction card transaction system;
   Figure 4 is a schematic representation of a security profile stored in a database of the
   transaction card transaction system; and
 5 Figure 5 shows an illustrative flow diagram of a method implemented in accordance
   with embodiments of the invention.
   Notation and Nomenclature
10 Certain terms are used throughout the following description and claims to refer to
   particular system components. As one skilled in the art will appreciate, companies
   may refer to a component by different names. This document does not intend to
   distinguish between components that differ in name but not function. In the following
   discussion and in the claims, the terms "including" and "comprising" are used in an
15 open-ended fashion, and thus should be interpreted to mean "including, but not
   limited to... ." Also, the term "couple" or "couples" is intended to mean either an
   indirect or direct electrical connection. Thus, if a first device couples to a second
   device, that connection may be through a direct electrical connection, or through an
   indirect electrical connection via other devices and connections.
20
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
   The following discussion is directed to various embodiments of the invention.
   Although one or more of these embodiments may be preferred, the embodiments
25 disclosed should not be interpreted, or otherwise used, as limiting the scope of the
   disclosure, including the claims. In addition, one skilled in the art will understand that
   the following description has broad application, and the discussion of any
   embodiment is meant only to be exemplary of that embodiment, and not intended to
   suggest that the scope of the disclosure, including the claims, is limited to that
30 embodiment.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -4
   As used herein, transaction card refers to a card that may be used to transact
   business with a party willing to accept the card, for example as tender for a purchase.
   Examples of such cards include credit cards, debit cards, gift cards, telephone cards,
   loyalty cards, membership cards, ticket cards, entertainment cards, sports cards,
 5 prepaid cards, stored-value cards, and the like. Typically, such cards are wallet-sized
   and made of plastic, but could be of any size or shape and also could be wholly
   electronic and/or virtual. In various embodiments, the transaction card may be a type
   of card such as a gift or prepaid card that requires activation at a point of sale. For
   example, a transaction card may be purchased and activated at a point of sale by a
10 consumer and subsequently used by the consumer or another (e.g., the recipient of
   the card as a gift) to transact business.
   Consumer use of transaction cards typically involves a card vendor, a redeeming
   merchant, a transaction facilitator, a transaction processor, a card processor, and a
15 card issuer (generally, "card party").                  In various embodiments, the card vendor,
   redeeming merchant, the transaction facilitator, the transaction processor, the card
   processor, and the card issuer may be the same, different, related entities, or
   combinations thereof. The point of sale where transaction cards are purchased and
   activated may be referred to as the card vendor or simply vendor. An entity that will
20 accept a transaction card for business transactions, for example as tender for a
   purchase, may be referred to as a redeeming merchant. An entity that provides a
   means for other card parties to communicate concerning a transaction card
   transaction may be referred to as a transaction facilitator. An entity that provides card
   parties information, validation and/or authorization for card transactions may be
25 referred to as a transaction processor. An entity that provides the financial backing via
   the transaction card may be referred to as the card issuer or simply issuer. An entity
   that manages card transactions for a card issuer may be referred to as a card
   processor.
30 Typically, the issuer is identified on the transaction card and associates a unique
   issuer account code with each transaction card. Card issuers include direct issuers of

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -5
   cards such as store-branded cards, and in some embodiments the card vendor may
   also be the card issuer and/or the redeeming merchant. Card issuers also include
   banks, financial institutions, and transaction processors such as VISA, MasterCard,
   American Express, etc., and cards issued by such institutions may be readily
 5 accepted by a number of redeeming merchants to conduct transactions such as
   purchases. In some instances, the redeeming merchant may be identified on the
   transaction card (for example, a retailer branded card such as Store X), and such
   cards may be sold at the same or different card vendor (e.g., card vendor is Store X
   or a different or unrelated Store Z).                    In such instances, the Store X branded
10 transaction card may be issued by Store X, by Store Z, or by a third party such as
   bank or financial institution.
   Figure 1 depicts transaction card 100. The transaction card 100 is fabricated from a
   suitable first material, such as plastic, paper, a plastic-coated paper, laminates, or
15 combinations thereof. The transaction card 100 is typically made in a thickness range
   of from about 0.005 to about 0.040 inch. The transaction card 100 bears an identifier
    111.          The transaction card identifier 111 is unique to the transaction card and
   associates the transaction card to a unique account maintained by the card issuer.
   The transaction card identifier may be encoded in a bar code, a magnetic strip, a
20 series of numerals, a series of letters, or a combination thereof. The transaction card
    100 may also be fashioned with a personal identification number, or PIN, to be
   entered during the course of a transaction, that corresponds to the transaction card
   identifier 111 and allows access and/or use of the transaction card account. The PIN
   may be encoded in a bar code, a magnetic strip, a series of numerals, a series of
25 letters, or a combination thereof.
   Figure 2 depicts a package 200 associated with transaction card 100. Package 200
   is distinct and separate from the transaction card 100. Package 200 may be formed
   from paper, plastic, plastic-coated paper, laminate, or combinations thereof. For
30 example, the package may be made of a 15 point coated one-side board stock,
   although it may be a laminated board or other laminate. Preferably, if the package

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                                    -6
   secures a transaction card comprising a PIN, the package backing material is
   opaque, to obscure the PIN on the transaction card 100, as described above. A
   transparent shrink wrap plastic film 203, applied using well-known methods, may be
   used to cover the transaction card 100 and to secure the transaction card 100 to
 5 package 200. In the alternative, a transparent plastic cover with an appropriately
   sized, generally rigid, embossed area accommodating the transaction card 100 may
   be incorporated, forming a structure commonly known as a "blister pack". Package
   200 may be imprinted with decorations, advertising, coupons, instructions, or other
   information as will now be apparent to those skilled in the art. Package 200 is
10 presented for illustrative purposes only. Package assemblies could be constructed to
   secure 2, 3, 4, or any plurality of transaction cards, from any number of affiliated or
   non-affiliated card issuers. Additionally, package assemblies could be fashioned from
   any industry-accepted material with individual transaction cards secured in any
   industry-accepted manner.                               Furthermore, these packages could be formed or
15 constructed in a plurality of shapes or presentations comprising a plurality of
   decorative, informational, promotional, or other information as would be apparent to
   those skilled in the art.
   The package 200 bears an identifier 250. The package identifier 250 is unique to the
20 package and is linked to the transaction card 100, and any other transaction card that
   is secured by package 200. More specifically, package identifier 250 is linked to the
   transaction card identifiers secured by the package. The package identifier 250 may
   be encoded in a bar code, a magnetic strip, radio frequency identification (RFID) tags,
   microprocessors, microchips, a series of numerals, a series of letters, or a
25 combination thereof. The package identifier 250 may be positioned anywhere on the
   package 200 whereby it is capable of being interpreted by a point of sale
   interpretation component 301.
   In an embodiment of the package identifier 250, the package 200 comprises a bar
30 code 255 of conventional construction, such as a UPC code, positioned on the
   package 200 so that it can be scanned by well-known bar code reading equipment.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                               -7
   Encoded in the bar code 255 on the package is a representation of the package
   identifier.
   In another embodiment of the package identifier (not shown), the package 200
 5 comprises a magnetic strip of conventional construction, such as one deposited from
   a slurry, positioned on the package 200 so that it can be scanned in well-known
   magnetic strip reading equipment. A terminal such as a Tranz 380 made by Verifone
   is suitable in this application.                        The magnetic strip may be encoded with a
   representation of the package identifier. For additional security, the package identifier
10 may also be subjected to an encryption algorithm, many of which are well-known in
   the art, prior to encoding on the magnetic strip.
   In other embodiments of the package identifier (not shown), radio frequency
   identification (RFID) tags, microprocessors, microchips may be placed on the
15 package 200 to be interpreted by specifically configured devices.
   In further embodiments, series of numerals, series of letters, or combinations thereof,
   may be placed on the package 200 to be read or interpreted by a human or a device,
   i.e. optical character recognition device, configured to interpret a series of shapes
20 corresponding to the package identifier.
   Figure 3 illustrates a transaction card transaction system 300 in accordance with the
   present invention. Prior to an activation request to activate a transaction card, a card
   party may establish a security profile 340. The card party may designate certain
25 security information that comprise requirements that an activation transaction or a
   request to transact business (e.g. tender for a purchase from a redeeming merchant
   or withdrawal of cash from a redeeming merchant using a transaction card) must
   satisfy in order for the transaction to be approved. These designations are saved in
   the security profile 340 which may be stored in database 380. The card parties'
30 systems (e.g., card vendors' systems, redeeming merchants' systems, transaction
   facilitators' systems, transaction processors' systems, card processors' systems,

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -8
   and/or card issuers' systems) are configurable to communicate with transaction
   processor 350 in order to store security profile 340 in database 380. The card parties'
   systems may comprise one or more CPUs or other type of processing device which
   has an ability to communicate over a network with other computer systems.
 5
   Figure 4 illustrates the security profile 340. The security profile 340 may have a three
   level hierarchy including: a Technical Vertical Master 410, a Product Vertical Master
   420, and a Product 430. The Technical Vertical Master 410 stores the boundary of
   requirements that an entire product line must satisfy in order for an activation request
10 or a request to transact business be approved. For example, the Technical Vertical
   Master 410 may have requirements that a Store X branded transaction card must
   satisfy in order for an activation request to be approved.
   Card program configuration may originate at the Technical Vertical Master 410 level
15 and cascade down to the Product Vertical Master 420 level and Product 430 level
   depending on the instant configuration scenario.
   The Product Vertical Master 420 contains requirements that specific program within
   the product line must satisfy in order for an activation request or a request to transact
20 business be approved. The product vertical master 420 may inherit the requirements
   stored in the technical vertical master 410. For example, the product vertical master
   420 may have requirements for Store X branded non-reloadable transaction cards
   (transaction cards that cannot have funds added) that must be satisfied in order for an
   activation request to be approved. These types of transaction cards would also have
25 the requirements that are stored in the technical vertical master 410 for all Store X
   branded transaction cards.
   Examples of Product Vertical Master 420 categories comprise: Card Expiration or
   Replacement; Activation; Network Transaction Fees; Account Management Fees;
30 Fraud Prevention; and Confirmation.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -9
   The Card Expiration or Replacement category may comprise several sub-categories
   such as: Expiration Type/Date (Static - sets the expiration date for all cards created
   at a defined future date and Rolling - sets the expiration date for all cards at a defined
   period from the date they were created); Allow Reissue of Plastics (flag indicates
 5 whether the program allows for the reissue of cards (same card number and same
   expiration date as the card being reissued, but with a different card verification value
   "CVV")); Allow Replacement of Plastics (flag indicates whether the program allows for
   the replacement of cards (new card number, new expiration date, and new CVV));
   Auto-Renewal (allows cards to be systematically reissued X number of days and/or
10 months prior to expiration); and Allow Advanced Expire for Replacement Cards
   (allows for the extension of the expiration date of a card that has been issued as a
   replacement card).
   The Activation category may comprise sub-categories such as:               Allow Manual
15 Activation by a Customer Service Representative (enables a card issued to be
   activated by a customer service representative ("CSR") upon the cardholder
   contacting the CSR for assistance); and Support Delayed Activation (a fraud
   prevention measure that prevents a card from being used within a configurable time
   period from the initial sale).
20
   The Network Transaction Fees category may comprise sub-categories such as:
   Currency Conversion (configurable fee applied when a transaction is performed in a
   currency other than the default currency - may be charged as a percentage of the
   amount of the settled transaction); and Take Negative for Fee (allows an account to
25 be taken to a negative balance should the account balance not support the applied
   fee).
   The Account Management Fees category may comprise sub-categories such as:
   Monthly Service Fee (related to fees assessed after a configurable amount of time
30 has passed from the card sale date -- configurable e.g., concerning amount of fee,
   ability to take an account negative for a fee assessment, date/day for fee application,

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 10
   and/or delay period for assessing a fee); Card Reissue Fee (fee assessed for the
   reissuance of a previously registered card -- configurable e.g., concerning amount of
   fee and/or ability to take an account negative for a fee assessment); Card Reissue
   Expedite Fee (fee assessed to hasten the reissue of a previously registered card -
 5 configurable e.g., concerning amount of fee and/or ability to take an account negative
   for a fee assessment); Card Replace Fee (fee assessed to replace a previously
   registered card -- configurable e.g., concerning amount of fee and/or ability to take an
   account negative for a fee assessment); Card Replace Expedite Fee (fee assessed to
   hasten the replacement of a previously registered card -- configurable e.g.,
10 concerning amount of fee and/or ability to take an account negative for a fee
   assessment); and Refund Fee (fee assessed to remit payment to a card holder for the
   remaining account balance of a card -- configurable e.g., concerning amount of fee).
   The Fraud Prevention category may comprise sub-categories such as: Tolerances
15 (percentages or amounts that may be added to an initial card authorization request
   configurable e.g., concerning tips or other instances wherein additional amounts are
   added to an initial amount resulting in a final authorization amount); and Authorization
   Hold Times (an amount of time that an authorized, but not settled, transaction may be
   held against an account prior to the expiration of authorization - configurable e.g., for
20 merchant categories and default hold times); Balance Control Limits (such as a
   minimum and/or maximum allowable balance for an account - configurable e.g., for
   initial account opening and long term account existence); Velocity Limits (define the
   maximum spend amount that may be performed on an account in a defined period of
   time -- configurable e.g., for spend amounts, number of transactions, location of
25 transactions, and time periods); Usage (concerns restrictions placed on card and/or
   account usage - configurable e.g., Country Codes, Merchant Category Codes, and
   Merchant Identification Numbers).
   The Confirmation category allows a card party to approve or discard the configuration
30 of the Product Vertical Master 420.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 11
   The Product 430 inherits the program attributes, e.g., categories, that are defined at
   the Product Vertical Master 420, as described above. As with the Product Vertical
   Master 420 categories, the Product's 430 categories are likewise configurable by a
   card party.
 5
   The product 430 contains requirements that a specific transaction card within the
   product line must satisfy in order for an activation request or a request to transact
   business be approved. The product 430 may inherit the requirements stored in the
   technical vertical master 410 and the product vertical master 420. For example, the
10 product 430 may have requirements for a Store X branded $50 non-reloadable
   transaction card that must be satisfied in order for an activation request to be
   approved. These types of transaction cards would also have the requirements that
   are stored in the technical vertical master 410 for all Store X branded transaction
   cards as well as the requirements stored in the product vertical master 420 for all
15 Store X branded non-reloadable transaction cards.
   The security profile 340 is fully configurable by a card party. Thus, the card party
   may, through the card party's system, may change or update any requirement stored
   in any of the three levels of hierarchy stored in security profile 340 at any time. The
20 card party may, through the card party's system, add additional requirements to or
   delete any requirement from any of the three levels of hierarchy stored in security
   profile 340 at any time. This enables each card issuer to determine its level of risk.
   The requirements that the card party may designate through the card party's system
25 to the security profile 340 in any one of the three levels of hierarchy may include: that
   any request for activation of the transaction card 100 be declined if any attempt has
   previously been made to transact business utilizing transaction card 100.
   Additionally, the card party may require a certain time delay between the activation of
   the transaction card 100 and the ability to transact business. Additional requirements
30 that may be included in any of the three levels of hierarchy in the security profile 340
   include: country codes (countries where the transaction card 100 may be activated or

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 12
   where requests to transact business may be authorized), merchant identification
   numbers (redeeming merchants that transaction card 100 may be authorized to
   transact business), and merchant category codes (categories of redeeming
   merchants that transaction card 100 may be authorized to transact business). Other
 5 additional requirements may be included in any of the three levels of hierarchy in the
   security profile 340 as well.
   Referring again to Figure 3, in order to activate the transaction card 100, at the point
   of sale, the package identifier 250 is interpreted 302 by a point of sale interpretation
10 component 301. The point of sale interpretation component 301 can comprise a
   human, a bar code scanner, magnetic strip reader, optical character recognition
   device, or other device configured to interpret the data encoded in the package
   identifier. While the point of sale interpretation component 301 may interpret package
   identifier 250, it may also interpret transaction card identifier 111 or any other
15 identifier associated with a transaction card.
   Contemporaneously with the interpretation of the package identifier 250, transaction
   card identifier 111, or any other identifier associated with a transaction card, a request
   for activation 303 by a point of sale transaction component 304 is made. The point of
20 sale transaction component 304 can comprise a human, an electronic input device, a
   register, a central processing unit ("CPU"), or other means of requesting the activation
   of the package identifier, transaction card identifier, or other identifier associated with
   a transaction card interpreted by the point of sale interpretation component 301. For
   purposes of disclosure, the actions performed by the point of sale interpretation
25 component 301 and the point of sale transaction component 304 may be performed
   by one component capable of performing both actions that would be performed by the
   individual components.
   The point of sale interpretation component 301 and the point of sale transaction
30 component 304 communicate with the point of sale processing component 305. The
   point of sale processing component 305 can comprise a CPU or other type of

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                                - 13
   processing device accepted for use in the industry. The point of sale interpretation
   component 301 communicates the package identifier 250, transaction card identifier
   111, or any other identifier associated with a transaction card to the point of sale
   processing component 305.                               The point of sale transaction component 304
 5 communicates the request for activation of the package identifier 250, transaction
   card identifier 111, or any other identifier associated with a transaction card
   interpreted by the point of sale interpretation component 301 to the point of sale
   processing component 305. The point of sale processing component 305 correlates
   the package identifier 250, transaction card identifier 111, or any other identifier
10 associated with a transaction card interpreted by the point of sale interpretation
   component 301 with the request for activation made by the point of sale transaction
   component 304 and communicates the request 306 for activation of the package
   identifier 250, transaction card identifier 111, or any other identifier associated with a
   transaction card to the transaction computer 350. For purposes of disclosure, the
15 actions performed by the point of sale interpretation component 301, the point of sale
   transaction component 304, and the point of sale processing component 306 may all
   be performed by one component capable of performing all the actions that would be
   performed by the individual components.
20 The point of sale processing component 305 is connectable to the transaction
   computer 350 via a suitable network, such as the public switched telephone network
   (PSTN) or an independent dedicated network.                             Each point of sale processing
   component 305 has an associated identifier that may be transmitted to the transaction
   computer 350 during the course of connecting the point of sale processing
25 component 305 to the transaction computer 350.
   The transaction computer 350 may comprise a singular processing unit, with
   concomitant storage capability, capable of accessing a database 380, creating and
   maintaining a transaction log 370, creating and maintaining a potential fraud log 375,
30 communicating with card vendors, communicating with the individual card issuers'
   authorization systems 360, processing individual transaction card activation requests,

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 14
   communicating with redeeming merchant processor systems 390, and processing
   individual transaction card requests to transact business.
   In the alternative, the transaction computer may comprise a plurality of processing
 5 units, with concomitant storage capabilities, each capable of: accessing the database
   380; creating a transaction log 370; creating and maintaining a potential fraud log
   375; communicating with card vendors; communicating with the individual card
   issuers' authorization systems 360; processing individual transaction card activation
   requests, communicating with redeeming merchant processor systems 390, and
10 processing individual transaction card requests to transact business.
   Upon receipt of an activation request for a package 200 securing a transaction card
   or multiple transaction cards or a request for activation of the transaction card 100
   from the card vendor, the transaction computer 350 accesses the security profile 340
15 stored in database 380. The transaction computer 350 processes the information
   contained in the security profile 340 and determines whether all of the requirements
   for activation stored in the security profile 340 are satisfied by the particular
   transaction card or multiple transaction cards secured by package 200 or the
   transaction card 100.
20
   If the requirements for activation stored in security profile 340 are satisfied,
   transaction processor 350 is configured to proceed with the activation of the
   transaction card or transaction cards secured by package 200 or transaction card 100
   and communicate to the card vendor 307, upon the activation of the transaction card,
25 that the activation of the package 200 or transaction card 100 is complete and to
   communicate any necessary PIN information required by activated transaction cards
   to the card vendor in order for the card purchaser to be apprised of that information
   for use of the purchased individual transaction card. Once transaction card 100 is
   activated, requests to transact business utilizing transaction card 100 may occur.
30
   If the requirements for activation stored in the security profile 340 are not satisfied,

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                                 - 15
   transaction processor 350 is configured to decline activation of the transaction card or
   transaction cards secured by package 200 or transaction card 100 and communicate
   to the card vendor 307 that the activation was declined. If the activation of transaction
   card 100 is declined, then transaction card 100 may not be utilized to transact
 5 business.
   In order to transact business utilizing transaction card 100, a redeeming merchant
   390 uses a redeeming merchant transaction component 392 to initiate a request to
   transact business.                              The redeeming merchant transaction component 392 can
10 comprise a human, an electronic input device, a register, a central processing unit
   ("CPU"), or other means of requesting to transact business utilizing transaction card
   100.            The redeeming merchant transaction component 392 communicates the
   request to transact business to the redeeming merchant processing component 394.
   The redeeming merchant processing component 394 communicates the request to
15 transact business utilizing the transaction card 100 to the transaction computer 350.
   For purposes of disclosure, the actions performed by the redeeming merchant
   transaction component 392 and the redeeming merchant processing component 394
   may be performed by one component capable of performing all the actions that would
   be performed by each individual component.
20
   The redeeming merchant processing component 394 is connectable to the
   transaction computer 350 via a suitable network, such as the public switched
   telephone network (PSTN) or an independent dedicated network. Each redeeming
   merchant processing component 394 has an associated identifier that may be
25 transmitted to the transaction computer 350 during the course of connecting the
   redeeming merchant processing component 394 to the transaction computer 350.
   Upon receipt of request to transact business utilizing transaction card 100, the
   transaction computer 350 accesses the security profile 340 stored in database 380.
30 The transaction computer 350 processes the information contained in the security
   profile 340 and determines whether all of the requirements for transacting business

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 16
   stored in the security profile 340 are satisfied by the transaction card 100.
   If the requirements for transacting business stored in security profile 340 are satisfied,
   transaction processor 350 is configured to proceed with the authorization of the
 5 business transaction and communicate to the redeeming merchant 390, upon
   authorization, that the business transaction is authorized. If the requirements for
   transacting business stored in the security profile 340 are not satisfied, the
   transaction processor 350 is configured to decline the request to transact business
   and communicate to the redeeming merchant 390 that the request to transact
10 business was declined.
   The transaction computer 350 is configured to generate and maintain a transaction
   log 370 of all activity involving the transaction computer 350. The transaction log may
   comprise a detailed summary of: (a) requested package activations; (b) requested
15 package deactivations; (c) requested individual card activations; (d) requested
   individual card deactivations; (e) the monetary amount ascribed to package
   activations; (f) the monetary amount ascribed to package deactivations; (g) the
   monetary amounts ascribed individual transaction card activations; (h) the monetary
   amounts ascribed to individual transaction cards deactivations; (i) the identities of the
20 individual card issuers of the transaction cards secured by activated packages; (j) the
   identities of the individual card issuers of the transaction cards secured by
   deactivated packages; (k) the time the packages were activated; (1)the time the
   packages were deactivated; (m) the time individual transaction cards were activated;
   (n) the time individual transaction cards were deactivated; (o) the transaction or
25 communication performed with the card issuer to activate the individual transaction
   cards; (p) the transaction or communication performed with the card issuer to
   deactivate the individual transaction cards; (q) the PIN communicated to the card
   vendor in response to a request to activate a transaction card requiring the input of a
   PIN for use; (r) all activities involving the security profile 340; (s) potential fraud
30 incidents for all activation requests and requests to transact business that were
   declined (to be maintained in a Potential Fraud Log 375); and (t) any combination

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                             - 17
   thereof.
   Figure 5 shows an illustrative flow diagram of a method implemented in accordance
   with various embodiments of the invention. The method comprises, in block 502,
   receiving a security profile. The security profile may have a three level hierarchy
 5 including: a technical vertical master, a product vertical master, and a product. The
   technical vertical master stores the boundary of requirements that an entire product
   line must satisfy in order for an activation request or a request to transact business be
   approved. The product vertical master contains requirements that specific program
   within the product line must satisfy in order for an activation request or a request to
10 transact business be approved.                          The product vertical master may inherit the
   requirements stored in the technical vertical master.                         The product contains
   requirements that a specific transaction card within the product line must satisfy in
   order for an activation request or a request to transact business be approved. The
   product may inherit the requirements stored in the technical vertical master and the
15 product vertical master. The security profile is fully configurable by a card party. The
   requirements that the card party may designate on the security profile in any one of
   the three levels of hierarchy may include:                      that any request for activation of a
   transaction card be declined if any attempt has previously been made to transact
   business utilizing the transaction card. Additionally, the card party may require a
20 certain time delay between the activation of the transaction card and the ability to
   transact business. Additional requirements that may be included in any of the three
   levels of hierarchy in the security profile include: country codes (countries where the
   transaction card may be activated or where requests to transact business may be
   authorized), merchant identification numbers (redeeming merchants that transaction
25 card may be authorized to transact business), and merchant category codes
   (categories of redeeming merchants that transaction card may be authorized to
   transact business). Other additional requirements may be included in any of the three
   levels of hierarchy in the security profile as well, as more fully detailed above.
30 The method continues in block 504 with the storing of the security profile. Typically,
   the security profile is stored in a database which is coupled to a transaction

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                                       - 18
   processor. In block 506, the method also comprises receiving a transaction request.
   Generally, the transaction request is a request to activate a transaction card which is
   generated at a point of sale and is associated with a specific card issuer's transaction
   card. However, a request to activate multiple transaction cards from either the same
 5 card issuer or multiple card issuers may also be received.
   The method also comprises, in block 508, a determination of whether the transaction
   request satisfies a first requirement stored in the security profile.                                 This first
   requirement may be that no attempt has previously been made to transact business
10 utilizing the transaction card. It may also be any other requirement that is stored in
   the security profile.                           If the first requirement is not satisfied, then the transaction
   request is declined, as illustrated in block 510. However, if the first requirement is
   satisfied, then the transaction request is allowed. Thus, if the transaction request is a
   request to activate a transaction card, the card is activated if the first requirement
15 stored in the security profile is satisfied as illustrated in block 512. The method
   continues in block 514 with transmitting an indication of activation to the point of sale.
   The method also comprises, in block 516, receiving a request to transact business
   utilizing the transaction card. This request generally is received from a redeeming
20 merchant.                   In block 518, a determination is made as to whether the request to
   transact business satisfies a second requirement stored in the security profile. The
   second requirement may be a time delay between the time of activation of the
   transaction card and the time of receiving the request to transact business, a country
   code, a merchant identification number, or a merchant category code.
25
   If the second requirement is satisfied, then the request to transact business is
   approved as illustrated in block 522.                                However, if the second requirement is not
   satisfied, the request to transact business is declined as illustrated in block 520 and is
   reviewed for evidence of fraud as illustrated in block 524.
30
   The above discussion is meant to be illustrative of the principles and various

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                         - 19
embodiments of the present invention. Numerous variations and modifications will
become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully
appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such
variations and modifications.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 20
   Claims Defining the Invention
   1.              A method performed by transaction computer comprising one or more
   processors and programming instructions encoded on a non-transitory computer
 5 readable medium which, when the program instructions are executed by the one or
   more processors, causes the transaction computer to perform the method comprising:
                   receiving, by transaction computer, a security profile configured by a card
   party, wherein the card party is one or more of a card vendor, a redeeming merchant,
   a transaction facilitator, a transaction processor, a card processor, and a card issuer
10 and wherein the security profile is fully reconfigurable by the card party at any time,
   wherein fully reconfigurable comprises changing or updating one or more
   requirements stored in the security profile;
                   storing, by transaction computer, the security profile in a database coupled to
   the transaction computer;
15                 receiving, by transaction computer, a request to activate a transaction card;
                   determining, by transaction computer, whether the request satisfies the
   security profile's one or more requirements.
   2.              The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more requirements is selected from
20 the group consisting of:
                   no attempt has previously been made to transact business utilizing the
   transaction card;
                   a time delay between time of activation of the transaction card and time of
   receiving the request to transact business;
25                 a country code;
                   a merchant identification number; and
                   a merchant category code.
   3.              The method of claim 2 further comprising:
30                 activating, by the transaction computer, the transaction card based on the
   determination that the request satisfies the one or more requirements; and

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 21
                   transmitting, by the transaction computer, an indication of the activation of the
   transaction card.
   4.              The method of claim 2 further comprising:
 5                 declining, by the transaction computer, to activate the transaction card based
   on the determination that the request does not satisfy at least one of the one or more
   requirements; and
                   transmitting, by the transaction computer, an indication of the declining to
   activate the transaction card.
10
   5.              The method of claim 1 wherein the security profile is configurable with
   requirements for all transaction cards issued by a card issuer.
   6.              The method of claim 1 wherein the security profile is configurable with
15 requirements for all transaction cards issued by a card issuer in a specific card
   program.
   7.              The method of claim 1 wherein the security profile is configurable with
   requirements for each specific transaction card issued by a card issuer.
20
   8.              A system comprising:
                   a database; and
                   a transaction computer comprising one or more processors and programming
   instructions encoded on a non-transitory computer readable medium which, when
25 executed by the one or more processors, causes the transaction computer to:
                                 receive a security profile associated with and configured by a card
                   party, wherein the card party is one or more of a card vendor, a redeeming
                   merchant, a transaction facilitator, a transaction processor, a card processor,
                   and a card issuer and, wherein the security profile is fully reconfigurable by the
30                 card party at any time, wherein fully reconfigurable comprises changing or
                   updating one or more requirements stored in the security profile;

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                            - 22
                                 store the security profile in the database coupled to the transaction
                   computer;
                                 receive a request to activate a transaction card;
                                 determine whether the request satisfies the security profile's one or
 5                 more requirements;
                                 activate the transaction card based on the determination that the
                   request satisfies the one or more requirements; and
                                 transmit an indication of the activation of the transaction card.
10 9.              The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more requirements is selected from
   the group consisting of:
                   no attempt has previously been made to transact business utilizing the
   transaction card;
                   a time delay between time of activation of the transaction card and time of
15 receiving the request to transact business;
                   a country code;
                   a merchant identification number; and
                   a merchant category code.
20 10.             The system of claim 9, wherein the programming instructions executed by the
   one or more processors further cause the transaction computer to:
                   receive a request to transact business utilizing the transaction card;
                   determine whether the request to transact business satisfies the security
   profile's one or more requirements; and
25                 approve the request to transact business based on the determination that the
   one or more requirements has been satisfied.
    11.            The system of claim 9, wherein the programming instructions executed by the
   one or more processors further cause the transaction computer to:
30                 receive a request to transact business utilizing the transaction card;
                   determine whether the request to transact business satisfies the security

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           - 23
   profile's one or more requirements; and
                   decline the request to transact business based on the determination that at
   least one of the one or more requirements has not been satisfied.
 5  12.            A non-transitory computer-readable medium encoded with a computer
   program comprising instructions that when executed cause by one or more
   processors of a transaction computer causes the transaction computer to:
                   receive a security profile associated with and configured by a card party,
   wherein the card party is one or more of a card vendor, a redeeming merchant, a
10 transaction facilitator, a transaction processor, a card processor, and a card issuer
   and , wherein the security profile is fully reconfigurable by the card party at any time,
   wherein fully reconfigurable comprises changing or updating one or more
   requirements stored in the security profile;
                   store the security profile in the database coupled to the transaction computer;
15                 receive a request to activate a transaction card;
                   determine whether the request satisfies the security profile's one or more
   requirements;
                   activate the transaction card based on the determination that the transaction
   request satisfies the one or more requirements; and
20                 transmit an indication of the activation of the transaction card.
   13.             The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the one or
   more requirements is selected from the group consisting of:
                   no attempt has previously been made to transact business utilizing the
25 transaction card;
                   a time delay between time of activation of the transaction card and time of
   receiving the request to transact business;
                   a country code;
                   a merchant identification number; and
30                 a merchant category code.

   C: \Interwon\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                           -24
   14.             The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the
   instructions that when executed by the one or more processors further cause the
   transaction computer to:
                   receive a request to transact business utilizing the transaction card;
 5                 determine whether the request to transact business satisfies security profile's
   one or more requirements; and
                   approve the request to transact business based on the determination that the
   one or more requirements has been satisfied.
10 15.             The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the
   instructions that when executed by the one or more processors further cause the
   transaction computer to:
                   receive a request to transact business utilizing the transaction card;
                   determine whether the request to transact business satisfies security profile's
15 one or more requirements; and
                   decline the request to transact business based on the determination that at
   least one of the one or more requirements has not been satisfied.
   16.             The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more requirements selected is no
20 attempt has previously been made to transact business utilizing the transaction card.
   17.             The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more requirements selected is the
   time delay between time of activation of the transaction card and time of receiving the
   request to transact business.
25
   18.             The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more requirements selected is the
   country code.
   19.             The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more requirements selected is the
30 merchant identification number.

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17195475_i.docx-22 062018
                                                         - 25
20.             The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more requirements selected is the
merchant category code.

<removed-date>
                                 1/5
<removed-apn>
                                            100
                            CARD ISSUER X
                    XY9512653
              111
                                Figure 1

<removed-date>                         2/5
<removed-apn>
                                                               200
                                                        203
                       CARD ISSUER X
                    XY9512653
              111
                                                             250
                                                       255
                                           AC6249231
                                Figure 2

                                                    <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
                                   380
                                                             340
                                    Security
                  Database
                                     Profile
305
                                                                                      360
      306                                           350
                                                             309
                   Transaction                                            Card
                                                                        Issuers
                    Processor                                         Authorization
                                                                        Systems
      307
                                                             310
                     Transaction
                                                Potential Fraud Log       375
                        Log
                                                                                            3/5
                                          370
                       Figure 3
            390

<removed-date>
                                      4/5
              340
<removed-apn>
                                410
                                            TECHNICAL
                                             VERTICAL
                                              MASTER
                          420
                                            PRODUCT
                                            VERTICAL
                                             MASTER
                    430
                                            PRODUCT
                                 Figure 4

<removed-date>
                                                      5/5
                              START
                                                           502
                    RECEIVE SECURITY PROFILE
                                                            504
<removed-apn>
                     STORE SECURITY PROFILE
                                                            506
                RECEIVE A TRANSACTION REQUEST TO
                  ACTIVATE A TRANSACTION CARD
                                                508
                                                                                   510
                   DOES REQUEST MEET SECURITY          N
                                                                           DECLINE ACTIVATION
                   PROFILE FIRST REQUIREMENT?
                                 Y                         512
                          ACTIVATE CARD
                                                           514
               TRANSMIT INDICATION OF ACTIVATION TO
                          POINT OF SALE
                                                            516
              RECEIVE REQUEST TO TRANSACT BUSINESS
                         UTILIZING CARD
                                                518
                                                                                 520
                   DOES REQUEST MEET SECURITY         N
                  PROFILE SECOND REQUIREMENT?                              DECLINE REQUEST
                                 Y
                                                                                 524
                                                      522
                                                                  REVIEW REQUEST FOR EVIDENCE OF FRAUD
                       AUTHORIZE REQUEST
                                                 Figure 5

