ABSTRACT
A configurable bumper for a vehicle may include a center body, one or more
telescoping end assemblies adapted to slide in a direction parallel to the axis of the
center body and perpendicular to the axis of vehicle, and a locking mechanism for
each telescoping end assembly. The telescoping end assemblies may be secured in
at least two different axial positions on the center body. A method for
manufacturing a bumper may include forming bumper components in near-net
shape by a profile extrusion process and sizing to length.

        LO LO
NC
   1/34

    CONFIGURABLE BUMPER AND METHOD FOR CONSTRUCTING A BUMPER
[0001]         CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]         The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 62/415,773 filed on November 1, 2016 for "Configurable
Bumper and Method for Constructing a Bumper," which is incorporated by
reference as though set forth herein in its entirety.
[0003]         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0004]         Technical Field of the Invention
[0005]         This invention relates to a configurable vehicle bumper for use under
changing driving conditions and regulatory requirements. This invention also
relates to a manufacturing method for constructing a bumper.
[0006]         Background Art
[0007]         Many sport utility vehicles and light trucks are suited for off-road
driving as well as highway driving. For certain off-road driving challenges, however,
it may be desirable for these vehicles to be customized in order to provide desired
performance. Such customizations may include alterations to mechanical systems
such as the vehicle's suspension and transmission, or may include body
modifications, such as removal of roof, doors, bumpers, and fenders. The latter
group of modifications offers increased driver visibility, obstacle clearance, and
wheel mobility, and reduces risk of damage to vulnerable parts of the vehicle.

[0008]         Some highly customized vehicles become single-use vehicles that are
used for recreational purposes only. These are only operated in an off-road location,
and are typically towed over paved roads to and from the off-road location. Most
other vehicles in the aforementioned classification are multi-use, where they must
provide daily transportation on paved roads and also provide for occasional
excursions off road. Because these multi-use vehicles are driven on public
roadways, they must comply with transportation safety requirements when on
these roads. Unfortunately, some safety requirements reduce the ability of the
vehicle to successfully navigate over and around some obstacles found off road, and
pose a higher risk of damage to those parts while off-road driving. It is therefore
desirable to provide for convenient means of configuring a multi-use vehicle for
optimal off-road performance, then re-configuring it for compliance with public
roadway safety regulations.
[0009]         Bumpers are included on motor vehicles to prevent or reduce damage
to a motor vehicle, primarily in low speed collisions. Key areas protected by
bumpers include the vehicle's hood or trunk, grille, fuel and exhaust systems,
cooling systems, and vehicle lights. Bumpers may also be designed to reduce the
severity of injury to pedestrians that may come in contact with the moving vehicle,
by reducing the risk of entanglement with the wheel or of being forced under the
vehicle. In many of these functions, particularly the last group, it is advantageous
for the bumper to extend in front of (or behind, when considering the rear bumper)
the vehicle's wheels. Indeed, transportation safety regulations in several locations
require bumpers to extend the full track width of the vehicle; track width may be
                                         2

defined in this case as the distance between centerlines of the two wheels that are
on the same axle. When driving off road, however, portions of the bumper that
extend directly in front of the vehicle's wheel wells may restrict movement of the
vehicle's wheels, or may limit the approach angle of the vehicle, potentially making
the vehicle's tires lose contact with the ground surface, promoting unsafe tipping of
the vehicle, or causing damage to the bumper.
[0010]          SUMMARY
In one embodiment, a configurable bumper comprises a center body, telescoping
end assemblies, and locking mechanisms. The center body and telescoping end
assemblies are manufactured from base components that each have constant cross
sections across their respective lengths. The bumper's center body is attached
rigidly to a vehicle's frame and telescoping end assemblies are slidably attached to
the center body such that they may slide in a direction parallel to the axis of the
center body and perpendicular to the axis of vehicle. The locking mechanisms
secure the telescoping end assemblies in at least two different axial positions on the
center body.
[0011]          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]          The objects, aspects, and advantages of the present invention will
become evident from the following detailed description. Exemplary illustrations are
provided to further aid understanding of the invention but are not intended to limit
the scope of the invention. These illustrations are divided into a series of figures
where:
                                         3

[0013]          FIG. 1 is a front view of an exemplary sport utility vehicle having a
configurable bumper according to the present invention, where the bumper is
configured in a first configuration that is responsive to transportation safety
requirements;
[0014]          FIG. 2 is a front view of an exemplary sport utility vehicle having a
configurable bumper according to the present invention, where the bumper is
configured in a second configuration that is optimal for off-road driving; and
[0015]          FIG. 3 is a left side view showing a cross section of the configurable
bumper in a region where it connects to the frame of an exemplary sport utility
vehicle.
[0016]          DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0017]          It is an object of the present invention to provide a vehicle bumper
that is configurable between at least two distinct operating configurations: one
where the bumper satisfies regulatory and safe driving requirements for paved
roadways, and one where the bumper is optimized for off-road driving conditions.
It is a further object of this invention to provide on-board storage for all bumper
parts used in each configuration. It is yet a further object of this invention to
simplify the configuration process so that it encourages the configuration process in
a repetitive manner in order to provide for optimal configurations for both
conditions. It is still a further object of this invention to provide an aesthetically
pleasing look for the bumper in all operating configurations. Also, it is an object of
                                            4

the present invention to provide cost-effective manufacturing for an aesthetically
pleasing bumper.
[0018]          Ideally, a bumper for a multi-use vehicle would be configurable to a
first position that complies with all transportation safety requirements and a second
position that does not extend in front of the wheel wells for driving off-road. The art
is replete with examples of bumpers that can be configured to multiple positions in
a direction parallel to the vehicle's primary direction of travel. The utility of these
bumper reconfigurations varies from securing parking space and providing external
storage on the vehicle to optimizing impact energy dissipation.
[0019]          Inventions that provide for changing bumper configurations in a
direction perpendicular to the vehicle's direction of travel, such as is the object of
this invention, have received somewhat less inventive publication. Early patent art
(see for example US1705119) includes bumper assemblies with rearwardly
sweeping end caps that are hingedly attached to a center bumper member in a
manner such that they can sustain impact when the vehicle is moving in a forward
direction but they rotate forward and inward if hooking a vehicle or other object
from the reverse direction. These movable end caps are configured to spring back
into their previous configuration once the hooked object is released. Hence, they do
not contemplate a separate operating state for the vehicle wherein the end caps are
fixed in a position other than the primary operating position. Without
contemplation of a second operating state, the device does not suggest a means for
fixing the end caps in the second state.
                                         Is

[0020]         More recent art of a similar nature provides for manually moving end
caps out of their normal operating position in order to allow improved access to
engine compartments in large trucks. Repositioning of bumper end caps occurs by
rotation or a combination of lateral translation and rotation (see US7063364 and
US20060197347), but the final configuration does not anticipate nor facilitate
vehicular movement while the bumper is thus configured.
[0021]         In an effort to facilitate manufacturing and/or reduce repair costs,
some inventions in the art have utilized a modular bumper design, including end
caps rigidly bolted to a center bumper member. In one embodiment of a modular
bumper (see US8905445), the modular construction helps disassociate end caps
from the rest of the bumper and from other attached surfaces such as engine
housings, thereby localizing any damage sustained by the bumper to smaller, more
easily replaced components. Other embodiments incorporate deliberately
weakened connection points between the central bumper and end caps to provide
for preferential breaking away of the end caps when impacted with sufficient force
(US 3907352 and US5000499). All of these designs presume a single bumper
configuration that is not operable without all parts installed.
[0022]         Some commercial manufacturers have designed modular bumpers
such that end caps may be removed specifically for off-road use or for aesthetic
appeal. While these bumper designs, and for that matter, their modular
predecessors just discussed, may all indeed be reconfigured to a laterally shorter
form by removing the end caps, these bumper systems offer no provision for a
simple, expedited, and repetitive removal process. Moreover, no provision is given

for storage of removed parts, leading to potential loss or damage of these parts.
Without addressing these two factors, a modular bumper design is less likely to be
reconfigured for both use conditions; thus these existing designs do not address in a
practical manner the needs described above. As an example, sometimes vehicle
owners will configure a bumper such that it is suitable for off-road use, and then
drive the vehicle on paved roads in that condition contrary to regulatory
requirements and safety, because the reconfiguration process is inconvenient.
[0023]         US1651005 describes a rear bumper with end caps that are hingedly
attached to a center bumper member so they can rotate and store behind the center
bumper member for more compact shipping. While this concept might be
applicable for reconfiguring a bumper for off-road use also, and offers the advantage
of on-board storage of end caps, it dictates bumper geometry that is less robust in
the end cap storage location to accommodate compact storage. On the other hand, if
the geometry of this particular center bumper member is redesigned so that it is
optimized for robustness against impact, storage of the hinged end caps on-board
becomes difficult without increasing the length of the vehicle or awkwardly stacking
bumper components atop each other.
[0024]         Various exemplary embodiments of the invention will now be
described in connection with FIGS. 1-3. The following description is presented by
way of example, and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention, which is
instead delineated by the appended claims.
[0025]         Referring to FIG. 1, a vehicle 101 is supplied with a configurable
bumper assembly 110, mounted to its front and/or rear end. Bumper assembly 110

comprises a center body 111, telescoping end assemblies 112 and 113, and locking
mechanisms 114 and 115. Center body 111 is attached rigidly to the vehicle's frame
102 (see FIG. 3). In one exemplary embodiment, the center body contains
attachment points 130 that may be useful for securing accessories such as lights and
push bars to the bumper assembly. These attachment points may extend the entire
length of center body 111 and are formed in the shape of a "T" slot (see also FIG. 3).
[0026]          Telescoping end assemblies 112 and 113 are slidably attached to
center body 111 such that they may slide in a direction parallel to the axis of center
body 111 and perpendicular to the axis of vehicle 101. For the purpose of clarity,
when description is made of items being arrayed in a parallel or perpendicular
attitude, it shall be understood to mean that these comparative standards are within
standard tolerances achieved in the industry by common manufacturing processes
known in the art, and may include minor deviations from a perfectly parallel or
perpendicular attitude in order to provide for desired aesthetic characteristics or to
provide mechanical clearance with objects on the vehicle that are proximal to the
bumper assembly.
[0027]          Locking mechanisms 114 and 115 secure telescoping end assemblies
112 and 113 in the desired axial positions on center body 111. Locking mechanisms
114 and 115 may each include a simple spring-loaded pin as is common in the art.
The pin may be oriented so that it engages one of at least two holes in the
telescoping end assemblies to enable locking in at least two discrete positions.
Other locking mechanisms such as those employing a wedge or cam may be used in
lieu of the pin to provide for infinitely adjustable positioning of the telescoping end

assemblies. While the locking mechanisms could include simple bolted connections,
they may advantageously be selected such that they do not require hand tools to
engage and disengage them, and would not require handling or storage of loose
parts removed from the assembly that would be subject to loss or damage during
storage.
[0028]         In the embodiment of FIG. 1, telescoping end assemblies 112 and 113
may include bearing surfaces 120 and 121 that are adapted to slide laterally inside
center body 111. Glides 122 and 123 are interposed between the inner surface of
center body 111 and bearing surfaces 120 and 121, and serve to minimize play
between the center body and the telescoping end assemblies and provide for
smooth, non-galling sliding. Stops of a type that is common in the art (not shown)
may be attached to the telescoping end assemblies as a failsafe to prevent accidental
complete removal of the telescoping end assemblies from within the confines of
center body 111. These stops may be manually removed to enable deliberate
removal of the telescoping end assemblies. The telescoping end assemblies may
also include end caps 124 and 125 that are rigidly attached to the bearing surfaces
by permanent attachment such as welding or by removable attachment such as
bolting. These end caps may be designed in various geometries to provide the
desired functionality and aesthetics at the extremities of bumper assembly 110. The
end caps may also be designed to comply with differing transportation safety
regulations found internationally; for example, they may provide the function of
closing the gap between fender flare 105 and the bumper assembly to protect
against forward-thrown tire debris, as is required in certain localities. In one

alternative embodiment, telescoping end assemblies 112 and 113 may be adapted
to slide laterally on the outside of center body 111.
[0029]           FIG. 1 depicts a first operational bumper configuration, wherein
bumper assembly 110 extends in front of wheels 103. In the most preferred
embodiment of the present invention, the length of the bumper assembly, with
telescoping end assemblies extended as shown, is greater than or equal to the track
width of the vehicle. This configuration may be most beneficially used for driving on
paved roadways and complying with regulatory requirements for such. The lengths
of bearing surfaces 120 and 121 are selected by methods common in the art to be
long enough such that, when configured according to FIG. 1, there is suitable
strength and rigidity in the bumper assembly to sustain a low energy impact to the
telescoping end assemblies, such as that encountered during a low velocity impact
with another object.
[0030]          FIG. 2 depicts a second operational configuration, wherein bumper
assembly 110 leaves the space in front of wheels 103 substantially unobstructed by
the telescoping end assemblies. This configuration may be most beneficially used
for driving off road, thereby optimizing tire clearance and trail visibility.
Advantageously, no components present in the first operational configuration need
be removed from the assembly to obtain the second operational configuration;
locking mechanisms 114 and 115 are simply released, allowing end assemblies 112
and 113 to slide to the second operational configuration, followed by re-engagement
of the locking mechanisms. As shown in FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, portions of bearing
surfaces 120 and 121 that were previously exposed when the bumper was

configured in its first operational configuration (FIG. 1) are hidden inside center
body 111 in the second operational configuration. The selected lengths of bearing
surfaces 120 and 121 are short enough to allow for unobstructed access to slots 131
and 132 found in center body 111, which may be used to facilitate mounting a winch
or other accessories on the bumper. In the most preferred embodiment, telescoping
end assemblies 112 and 113 are contoured to nest over portions of center body 111,
as shown in FIG. 2, such that they provide for a compact and visually appealing
second operational configuration.
[0031]          In the embodiment of FIG. 2, center body 111 has a cross section that
is constant about its length. For the purpose of clarity, when description is made of
items being constant in cross section, it shall be understood to mean that this
comparative standard is within standard tolerances achieved in the industry by
common manufacturing processes known in the art, and may include minor
deviations from a perfectly constant cross section in order to provide for desired
aesthetic characteristics or to provide mechanical clearance with objects on the
vehicle that are proximal to the described part. Center body 111 is shown in FIG. 1
and FIG. 2 as having a straight axis; however, in alternate embodiments, it may also
have a curved axis to facilitate aesthetic or other geometrical design objectives,
while still having a cross section that is within the scope of the invention. By making
the cross section constant about its length, center body 111 may be manufactured
by a profile extrusion manufacturing process or other similar process. This type of
manufacturing process offers benefits over the processes typically used in bumper
manufacture, most importantly including production of near-net-shape raw
                                       1 1

materials that require little or no welding, bending, or other labor-intensive
operations.
[0032]         FIG. 3 provides an example of these benefits as applied to the cross
section of center body 111. As shown, the center body may be formed in the shape
of a double-walled U-shape that mounts conveniently to the vehicle frame 102 and
in a manner that is hidden when viewed from the front of the vehicle. The outer
profile of the bumper may be selected to provide the desired aesthetic form shown,
and also contains functional features such as attachment points 130. The inner
profile of the bumper contains guides 134 for glides 122 and 123 (see FIG. 1). The
double walls provide for added bumper thickness that helps to isolate the vehicle
from low-energy impact; they also serve to provide longitudinal rigidity to the
bumper. Cavities 135 collectively serve to guide bearing surfaces 120 and 121 (see
FIG. 1). Thus, to finish manufacture of center body 111, the profile extrusion of
constant cross section is simply cut to length. The manufacturing benefit of having
these and other functional and aesthetic features formed into the bumper raw
material via a profile extrusion process versus other manufacturing processes is
evident. Center body 111 may advantageously be cut to length using cuts that are
oblique to the axis of the profile extrusion thereby giving the center body an
interesting and visually appealing look. In another embodiment of the present
invention, center body 111 is cut to length using cuts that have a radius of curvature.
[0033]          In a manner similar to that just described, bearing surfaces 120 and
121 may have cross sections that are constant about their lengths and may be
straight or curved, in order to facilitate the slidable connection with center body

111. Further, end caps 124 and 125 may also have constant cross sections to
optimize manufacturing. These may have straight or curved axes and may be
cropped lengthwise at oblique angles to the axis of the cross section to provide an
interesting and visually appealing look. Alternatively, they may be cropped using
cuts that have a radius of curvature. The end cap cross section may also include
attachment locations for accessories, including, for example, a socket 133 (FIG. 2)
for a tent post to support a roof-top tent, or other such devices.
[0034]           Bumper assembly 110 may be constructed from the group of
structural materials including aluminum, steel, structural plastics and fiber
reinforced composites. These components may be constructed using the profile
extrusion process just described, but may also be manufactured by other processes
known in the art, including but not limited to metal forming, welding, milling or
injection molding processes.
[0035]           It is clear that the construction method utilizing constant cross section
materials just described may also be applied with great benefit to bumpers that are
not configurable per the most preferred embodiment described above. For example,
a bumper may comprise a single length of constant cross section material similar to
center body 111, but without telescoping end assemblies. This length of material
may be straight or curved as described above. In this embodiment, cavities 135 in
FIG. 3 may serve for inside-bumper storage of vehicle accessories, including jacks,
lights, tools, and so forth. In yet another alternate embodiment of a bumper
employing this construction method, a bumper may comprise a center body and a
non-telescoping end cap rigidly attached to each end the center body, wherein each

of these components is constructed from raw materials of constant cross section.
The center body and end caps may be cropped as described above to provide for
aesthetically pleasing visual effects.
[0036]         While this description sets forth exemplary embodiment as well as
alternative embodiments, it is evident to those skilled in the art that the invention is
susceptible to still further variation without departing from the proper scope or fair
meaning of the present invention. Furthermore, while an exemplary embodiment
has been shown as applied to a specific vehicle design, it is clear that the invention
may be applied to different types of vehicle designs.

WE CLAIM:
1.     A configurable bumper assembly for a vehicle having a vehicle axis extending
along a direction of travel of the vehicle, the configurable bumper assembly
comprising:
       a center body configured to be rigidly attached to a vehicle, the center body
comprising a bumper axis extending along a length of the center body;
       one or more telescoping end assemblies slidably attached to the center body
and adapted to slide in a direction parallel to the bumper axis and perpendicular to
the vehicle axis; and
       a locking mechanism for each of the telescoping end assemblies, whereby
each of the telescoping end assemblies may be secured in at least two different
positions along the bumper axis.
2.     The configurable bumper assembly of claim 1, wherein said different
positions comprise a first operational position that provides the configurable
bumper assembly an overall length that is equal to or greater than a track width of
the vehicle.
3.     The configurable bumper assembly of claim 2, wherein said different
positions further comprise a second operational position that provides the
configurable bumper assembly an overall length that is equal to or less than an
inner extremity occupied by wheels of the vehicle.
4.     The configurable bumper assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the
telescoping end assemblies further comprises one or more bearing surfaces that are
adapted to slide laterally inside said center body.
                                         1s

5.     The configurable bumper assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the
telescoping end assemblies further comprises one or more bearing surfaces that are
adapted to slide laterally on an outside surface of said center body.
6.     The configurable bumper assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the
telescoping end assemblies further comprises an end cap.
7.     The configurable bumper assembly of claim 1, wherein the center body has a
double-walled U shape.
8.     A method for manufacturing a bumper for a vehicle, the method comprising:
       forming a center body of the bumper in a near-net shape by a profile
extrusion process such that the center body has a constant cross section; and
       after forming the center body, cutting the center body to length.
9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the constant cross section has a double
walled U shape.
10.    The method of claim 8, further comprising:
       forming a first end cap in a near-net shape by a profile extrusion process;
       forming a second end cap in a near-net shape by a profile extrusion process;
       after forming the first end cap, cutting the first end cap to length; and
       after forming the second end cap, cutting the second end cap to length.
11.    The method of claim 10, further comprising:
       slidably attaching the first end cap to the center body; and
       slidably attaching the second end cap to the center body.
                                     14

12.    The method of claim 8, further comprising cutting said center body to length
at an angle that is oblique to a bumper axis extending along a length of the bumper,
perpendicular to the constant cross section.
13.    A method for manufacturing a bumper for a vehicle, said bumper comprising
a center body and a first end cap, said method comprising:
       forming the center body with a constant center body cross section that is
formed in a near-net shape by a profile extrusion process;
       forming the first end cap with a constant end cap cross section that is formed
in a near-net shape by a profile extrusion process; and
       attaching the first end cap to the center body such that an orientation of an
end cap axis extending along an end cap length of the first end cap is at a nonzero
angle to a bumper axis extending along a center body length of the center body.
14.    The method of claim 13, wherein forming the first end cap comprises
cropping the first end cap at an oblique angle to the end cap axis.
15.    The method of claim 13, wherein attaching the first end cap to the center
body comprises positioning the end cap axis perpendicular to the bumper axis.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
