                                              ABSTRACT
   In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to 7,8-dihydoxyflavone and 7,8
   substituted flavone derivatives, such as those described by formula provided herein,
 5 pharmaceutical compositions, and methods related thereto. In certain embodiments, the
   disclosure relates to methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions related to
   BDNF and TrkB activity, such as psychiatric disorders, depression, post-traumatic stress
   disorder, and autism spectrum disorders, stroke, Rett syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and
   Alzheimer's disease by administering effective amounts of pharmaceutical compositions
10 comprising compounds disclosed herein to a subject in need thereof. In certain
   embodiments, it is contemplated that the 7,8-substituted flavone derivatives disclosed
   herein are prodrugs of 7,8-dihydoxyflavone and analogs.

             7,8-DIHYDOXYFLAVONE AND 7,8-SUBSTITUTED FLAVONE
      DERIVATIVES, COMPOSITIONS, AND METHODS RELATED THERETO
                                   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
                  CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2013337742, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
           This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Number
   61/722,339 filed November 5, 2012 and U.S. Provisional Application Number
   61/845,399 filed July 12, 2013, both hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
10                                             FIELD
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to 7,8-dihydoxyflavone and 7,8
   substituted flavone derivatives, such as those described by formula provided herein,
   pharmaceutical compositions, and methods related thereto. In certain embodiments, the
   disclosure relates to methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions related to
15 BDNF and TrkB activity, such as psychiatric disorders, depression, post-traumatic stress
   disorder, and autism spectrum disorders, stroke, Rett syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and
   Alzheimer's disease by administering effective amounts of pharmaceutical compositions
   comprising compounds disclosed herein to a subject in need thereof. In certain
   embodiments, it is contemplated that the 7,8-substituted flavone derivatives disclosed
20 herein are prodrugs of 7,8-dihydoxyflavone and analogs.
                                         BACKGROUND
           Neurotrophins are growth factors regulate the development and maintenance of
   the peripheral and the central nervous system. Brain-derived neutrotrophic factor
   (BDNF) is a member of the neurotrophin family, which includes nerve growth factor
25 (NGF), NT-3 and NT-4/5. BDNF binding to its cognate receptor, TrkB, triggers its
   dimerization through conformational changes and autophosphorylation of tyrosine
   residues, resulting in activation of the three major signaling pathways - mitogen
   activated protein (MAPK),
                                                  1

   phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (P13K) and phospholipase C-yl (PLC-yl). Various studies
   have shown links between BDNF and TrkB to conditions such as depression,
   schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease,
   Rett syndrome, and dementia, as well as anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. See
 5 Dwivedi, Neutopsychiatric Disease and Treatment, 2009, 5: 433-49; Xiu et al., Progress in
   Neuro-Psychopharmacology and Biological Psychiatry, 2009, 33(8):1508-12; Maina et al.,
   Journal of Affective Disorders, 2010, 122(1-2):174-8; Zuccato et al., Nature Reviews
   Neurology, 2009, 5(6):31 1-22; Zajac et al., 20 10, Hippocampus 20 (5): 621-36; Zeev et
   al., Neurology, 2009, 72 (14): 1242-7; Arancio et al., 2007, Current Opinion in
10 Neurobiology, 17 (3): 325-30; Mercader et al, Neuropsychobiology ,2007, 56 (4): 185-90;
   Kaplan et al., International Journal of Eating Disorders, 2008 41 (1): 22-8. Epigenetic
   enhancement of BDNF signaling rescues synaptic plasticity in aging. See Zeng et al., J.
   Neuroscience, 2011, 31(49):17800 -17810. 7,8-dihydroxyflavone reverses memory
   deficits and BACEI elevation in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. See Devi &
15 Ohno, Neuropsychopharmacology, 2012, 37(2):434-44.
           It has been reported that certain 7,8-dihydroxyflavone derivatives promote
   neurogenesis and exhibits potent antidepressant effects. See Liu et al., J Med Chem, 2010,
   53 (23), pp 8274-8286. See also WO/2010/011836, WO/2010/107866, and WO
   2011/156479. As 7,8-dihydroxyflavone derivatives are catechol and phenyl containing
20 compounds, they are prone to be cleared in the circulatory system following oxidation,
   glucuronidation, sulfation or methylation. Thus, there is a need to identify improved
   flavone derivatives with improved pharmacokinetic properties.
           The health benefits of flavonoid compounds have been reported in a number of
   references, including neuroprotective and anti-cancer properties. See Chiruta et al., 2012,
25 Journal of Medicinal Chemistry, 55, 378-89; Sousa et al, 2012, European Journal of
   Organic Chemistry, 1, 132-43; Sivakumar et al., PCT Appl. No. US 2010/0179210.
   Derivatives of 3-hydroxyquinolone compounds have also been previously synthesized
   with reports of their fluorescence and biological activities disclosed. See Yushchenko et
   al., 2006, Tetrahedron Letters, 47, 905-8; Krejci et al., PCT AppL. No. US 2010/0022587.
30         A prodrug is a pharmacological substance that is administered and is subsequently
   converted to an active pharmacological agent through normal metabolic processes.
   Enzymes are involved in the bioconversion of ester-based prodrugs. See Liederer &,
   Borchardt, J Pharm Sci, 2006, 95(6):1177-95.
                                                  2

           The references cited hereby are not an admission of prior art.
                                            SUMMARY
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to 7,8-dihydoxyflavone and 7,8
   substituted flavone derivatives, such as those described by formula provided herein,
 5 pharmaceutical compositions, and methods related thereto. In certain embodiments, the
   disclosure relates to methods of treating or preventing diseases or conditions related to
   BDNF and TrkB activity, such as psychiatric disorders, depression, post-traumatic stress
   disorder, and autism spectrum disorders, stroke, Rett syndrome, Parkinson's disease, and
   Alzheimer's disease by administering effective amounts of pharmaceutical compositions
10 comprising compounds disclosed herein to a subject in need thereof In certain
   embodiments, it is contemplated that the 7,8-substituted flavone derivatives disclosed
   herein are prodrugs of 7,8-dihydoxyflavone and analogs.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure related to a compound comprising Formula
   I:
                                            0               Re
                                        RUO            R0         Z
                                          R               RsR
                                                 4
15                                              R    0
                                              Formula I
           or salts thereof wherein
           X is 0, S, or NH;
           U and Y are each 0, S, NH, Nalkyl, or CH 2 ;
20         Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R' is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R' is optionally
25 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"5 ;
           R2 is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
   carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
   arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R2 is optionally substituted with
   one or more, the same or different, R";
                                                   3

            R', R4, R, R6, R', R', and R? are each individually and independently hydrogen,
   alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
   alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (aLkyl) 2amino, aLkylsulfmyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
   carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R, R4, R5, R 6 , R7, R,   and R   are optionally
 5 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"?;
            R" is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R" is optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"6 ; and
10          R"6 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluommethoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, N,N
   dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
15 ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, N,N-dimethylsulfamoyl, N,N
   diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplates compositions comprising
   compounds disclosed herein in greater than 90%, 95%, or 98% purity by weight.
20          In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to pharmaceutical compositions
   comprising compounds disclosed herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In
   certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a tablet, capsule,
   pill, or solution for injection. In certain embodiments, it is contemplated that the
   pharmaceutical composition comprises greater than 0.1%, 1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%,
25 or 50% of a compound disclosed herein by weight.
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to methods of preventing or treating
   a BDNF and TrkB related disease or condition comprising the administering an effective
   amount of a pharmaceutical composition disclosed herein, to a subject in need thereof In
   some embodiments, the subject is diagnosed with, exhibiting symptoms of, or at risk of the
30 disease or condition. In some embodiments, the disease or condition is depression,
   schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, anxiety,
   amytrophic later sclerosis, Autism spectrum disorders, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's
   disease, Rett's syndrome, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, dementia, diabetic neuropathy,
   peripheral neuropathy, obesity, peripheral nerve injury, pain, or stroke.
                                                   4

           In certain embodiments, the disease is depression and the pharmaceutical
   composition is administered in combination with an anti-depressant such as a selective
   serotonin reuptake inhibitor such as citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine,
   paroxetine, sertraline, or vilazodone, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor such as
 5 desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, milnacipran, venlafaxine, a noradrenergic and specific
   serotonergic antidepressant such as mianserin and mirtazapine, a norepinephrine reuptake
   inhibitor such as atomoxetine, mazindol, reboxetine, viloxazine, a norepinephrine
   dopamine reuptake inhibitor such as bupropion, a selective serotonin reuptake enhancer
   such as tianeptine and amineptine, a norepinephrine-dopamine disinhibitor such as
10 agomelatine, a tricyclic antidepressant such as amitriptyline, clomipramine, doxepin,
   imipramine, trimipramine, desipramine, nortriptyline, protriptyline, a monoamine oxidase
   inhibitor such as isocarboxazid, moclobemide, phenelzine, selegiline, tranyleypromine.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplates treatment or prevention of
   dementia, Alzheimer's, or Parkinson's disease by administering 7,8-dihydroxyflavone and
15 derivatives disclosed herein in combination with a dementia agent such as levodopa,
   carbidopa, pramipexole, rotigotine, ropinimle, artane, cogentin, amantadine, deprenyl,
   donepezil, galantamine, memantine, rivastigmine, tacrine, and vitamin E. In certain
   embodiments, the disclosure contemplates pharmaceutical agents comprising
   combinations of these therapeutics.
20         In some embodiments, the disclosure relates to the use of a compound disclosed
   herein in the production of a medicament for the treatment or prevention of a BDNF and
   TrkB related disease or condition.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplates method of producing
   compounds disclosed herein comprising mixing starting materials with 7,8
25 dihydroxyflavone or derivatives under conditions such that the compounds are formed.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           Figure I illustrates various embodiments of the disclosure.
           Figure 2 schematically illustrates a method of preparing embodiments of this
   disclosure.
30         Figure 3 illustrates various embodiments of the disclosure.
           Figure 4 show data indicating R13 improves 7,8-DHF oral bioavailability and brain
   concentrations. Top, brain 7,8-DHF concentration after oral administration of parent
                                                  5

   compound or R1 3 prodrug. Middle and bottom, 7,8-DHF plasma and brain concentrations
   comparison after oral administration of parent compound or R13 .
            Figure 5 shows data indicating plasma 7,8-DHF concentration after administering
   R7  is higher than parent 7,8-DHF via oral administration. Two months old mice were
 5 orally administrated 78 mg/kg of the R7 , and mice were sacrificed at different time points
   (n = 3), the plasma was then harvested and analyzed by HPLC/MS. The ratio of AUCIW of
   R7 versus parent drug is 7.2 folds.
            Figure 6 shows data indicate that R7 administration triggers TrkB activation and its
   downstream Akt signaling activation in mouse brain. R7 (78 mg/kg equal to about 50
10 mg/kg of 7,8-DHF) was administered orally. The mice were sacrificed at different
   intervals. The brain lysates were analyzed by immunobotting with various antibodies
   including p-TrkB 816, Total TrkB, p-Akt and total Akt.
                                      DETAILED DISCUSSION
15 Terms
            Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as is commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   disclosure belongs. In the event that there is a plurality of definitions for a term herein,
   those in this section prevail unless stated otherwise.
20          It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
   describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the scope
   of the present disclosure will be limited only by the appended claims.
            As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure, each of
   the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and
25 features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the
   other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
   disclosure.
            Embodiments of the present disclosure will employ, unless otherwise indicated,
   techniques of synthetic organic chemistry, biochemistry, biology, molecular biology,
30 pharmacology, and the like, which are within the skill of the art. Such techniques are
   explained fully in the literature.
            It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
   singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly
   dictates otherwise. In this specification and in the claims that follow, reference will be
                                                    6

   made to a number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings unless a
   contrary intention is apparent.
            As used herein a "flavone" refers to any compound comprising a 2-phenyl-4H
   chromen-4-one ring system.
 5          As used herein, "alkyl" means a noncyclic straight chain or branched, unsaturated
   or saturated hydrocarbon such as those containing from I to 10 carbon atoms, typically 1
   to 6 carbon atoms. Within any embodiments, herein alkyl may refer to an alkyl with I to 6
   carbons (C1. 6 alkyl). Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl, ethyl,
   n-propyl, n-butyl, n-pentyl, n-hexyl, n-septyl, n-octyl, n-nonyl, and the like; while
10 saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl, sec-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, isopentyl, and
   the like. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent
   carbon atoms (referred to as an "alkenyl" or "alkynyl", respectively). Representative
   straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl, propylenyl, I -butenyl, 2-butenyl,
   isobutylenyl, I-pentenyl, 2-pentenyl, 3 -methyl- 1-butenyl, 2-methyl-2-butenyl, 2,3
15 dimethyl-2-butenyl, and the like; while representative straight chain and branched alkynyls
   include acetylenyl, propynyl, I-butynyl, 2-butynyl, 1-pentynyl, 2-pentynyl, 3- methyl-I
   butynyl, and the like,
            Non-ammatic mono or polycyclic alkyls are referred to herein as "carbocycles" or
   "carbocyclyl" groups. Representative saturated carbocycles include cyclopropyl,
20 cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, and the like; while unsaturated carbocycles include
   cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl, and the like.
            "Heterocarbocycles" or heterocarbocyclyl" groups are carbocycles which contain
   from 1 to 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur which
   may be saturated or unsaturated (but not aromatic), monocyclic or polycyclic, and wherein
25 the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized, and the nitrogen
   heteroatom may be optionally quaternized. Heterocarbocycles include morpholinyl,
   pyrrolidinonyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl, hydantoinyl, valerolactamyl, oxiranyl, oxetanyl,
   tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydropyridinyl, tetrahydroprimidinyl,
   tetrahydrothiophenyl, tetrahydrothiopyranyl, tetrahydropyrimidinyl, tetrahydrothiophenyl,
30 tetrahydrothiopyranyl, and the like.
            "Aryl" means an aromatic carbocyclic monocyclic or polycyclic ring such as
   phenyl or naphthyl. Polycyclic ring systems may, but are not required to, contain one or
   more non-aromatic rings, as long as one of the rings is aromatic.
                                                  7

            As used herein, "heteroaryl" refers an aromatic heterocarbocycle having 1 to 4
   heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur, and containing at least I carbon
   atom, including both mono- and polycyclic ring systems. Polycycic ring systems may, but
   are not required to, contain one or more non-aromatic rings, as long as one of the rings is
 5 aromatic. Representative heteroaryls are furyl, benzofuranyl, thiophenyl, benzothiophenyl,
   pyrrolyl, indolyl, isoindolyl, azaindolyl, pyridyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, oxazolyl,
   isooxazolyl, benzoxazolyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, benzimidazolyl, thiazolyl,
   benzothiazolyl, isothiazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, triazinyl, cinnolinyl,
   phthalazinyl, and quinazolinyl. It is contemplated that the use of the term "heteroaryl"
10 includes N-alkylated derivatives such as a I-methylimidazol- 5-yl substituent.
            As used herein, "heterocycle" or "heterocyclyl" refers to mono- and polycyclic ring
   systems having I to 4 heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur, and
   containing at least 1 carbon atom. The mono- and polycyclic ring systems may be
   aromatic, non-aromatic or mixtures of aromatic and non-aromatic rings. Heterocycle
15 includes heterocarbocycles, heteroaryls, and the like.
            "Alkylthio" refers to an alkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of
   carbon atoms attached through a sulfur bridge. An example of an alkylthio is methylthio,
   (i.e., -S-CH 3).
            "Alkoxy" refers to an alkyl group as defined above with the indicated number of
20 carbon atoms attached through an oxygen bridge. Examples of alkoxy include, but are not
   limited to, methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, i-propoxy, n-butoxy, s-butoxy, t-butoxy, n
   pentoxy, and s-pentoxy. Preferrd alkoxy groups are methoxy, ethoxy, n-propoxy, i
   propoxy, n-butoxy, s-butoxy, t-butoxy.
            "Alkylamino" refers an aLkyl group as defined above attached through an amino
25 bridge. An example of an alkylamino is methylamino, (i.e., -NH-CH).
             "Alkyloxycarbonyl" refers to an alkyl as defined above attached through a
   carboxy bridge (i.e., -(C=O)Oalkyl.
            "Alkylcarbamoyl" refers to an alkyl as defined above attached through a carbonyl
   bridge (i.e., -(C=0)NHalkyl).
30          "Alkanoyl" refers to an alkyl as defined above attached through a carbonyl bridge
   (i.e., -(C=O)akyl).
            "Alkylsulfonyl" refers to an alkyl as defined above attached through a sulfonyl
   bridge (i.e., -S(=O) 2alkyl) such as mesyl and the like, and "Arylsulfonyl" refers to an aryl
   attached through a sulfonyl bridge (i.e., - S(=0) 2 aryl).
                                                   8

           "Alkylsulfonamide" refers to an aLkyl as defined above attached through a
   sulfamoyl bridge (i.e., -S(=0) 2NHalkyl), and an "Arylsulfonamide" refers to an alkyl
   attached through a sulfamoyl bridge (ie., (i.e., - S(=0)2Nlaryl).
           "Alkylsulfinyl" refers to an alkyl as defined attached through a sulfinyl bridge (i.e.
 5 -S(=O)alkyl).
           The terms "halogen" and "halo" refer to fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine.
           The term "substituted" refers to a molecule wherein at least one hydrogen atom is
   replaced with a substituent. When substituted, one or more of the groups are
   "substituents." The molecule may be multiply substituted. In the case of an oxo
10 substituent ("=0"), two hydrogen atoms are replaced. Example substituents within this
   context may include halogen, hydroxy, alkyl, alkoxy, nitro, cyano, oxo, carbocyclyl,
   carbocycloalkyl, heterocarbocyclyl, heterocarbocycloalkyl, aryl, arylalkyl, heteroaryl,
   heteroarylalkyl, -NRaRb, -NRaC(=O)Rb, -NRaC(=O)NRaNRs, -NRC(=0)ORb,
   NRaSO 2R, -CO)l, -C(=0)ORa, -C(=0)NRaR, -OC(=O)NRaRb, -ORa, -SRa, -SORa,
15 S(=0) 2Ra, -OS(=0) 2Ra and -S(=0)20Ra. R. and Rb in this context may be the same or
   different and independently hydrogen, halogen hydroxyl, alkyl, alkoxy, alkyl, amino,
   aLkylamino, dialkylamino, carbocyclyl, carbocycloalkyl, heterocarbocyclyl,
   heterocarbocycloaLkyl, aryl, arylaLkyl, heteroaryl, heteroarylalkyl.
           The term "optionally substituted," as used herein, means that substitution is
20 optional and therefore it is possible for the designated atom to be unsubstituted.
           As used herein, "salts" refer to derivatives of the disclosed compounds where the
   parent compound is modified making acid or base salts thereof. Examples of salts include,
   but are not limited to, mineral or organic acid salts of basic residues such as amines,
   aLkylamines, or dialkylamines; alkali or organic salts of acidic residues such as carboxylic
25 acids; and the like. In preferred embodiment the salts are conventional nontoxic
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts including the quaternary ammonium salts of the parent
   compound formed, and non-toxic inorganic or organic acids. Preferred salts include those
   derived from inorganic acids such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, sulfamic,
   phosphoric, nitric and the like; and the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic,
30 propionic, succinic, glycolic, stearic, lactic, malic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, pamoic, maleic,
   hydroxymaleic, phenylacetic, glutamic, benzoic, salicylic, sulfanilic, 2- acetoxybenzoic,
   fumaric, toluenesulfonic, methanesulfonic, ethane disulfonic, oxalic, isethionic, and the
   like.
           "Subject" refers any animal, preferably a human patient, livestock, or domestic pet.
                                                    9

           As used herein, the terms "prevent" and "preventing" include the prevention of the
   recurrence, spread or onset. It is not intended that the present disclosure be limited to
   complete prevention. In some embodiments, the onset is delayed, or the severity of the
   disease is reduced.
 5         As used herein, the terms "treat" and "treating" are not limited to the case where
   the subject (e.g. patient) is cured and the disease is eradicated. Rather, embodiments, of
   the present disclosure also contemplate treatment that merely reduces symptoms, and/or
   delays disease progression.
           As used herein, the term "combination with" when used to describe administration
10 with an additional treatment means that the agent may be administered prior to, together
   with, or after the additional treatment, or a combination thereof
           As used herein, the term "derivative" refers to a structurally similar compound that
   retains sufficient functional attributes of the identified analogue. The derivative may be
   structurally similar because it is lacking one or more atoms, substituted, a salt, in different
15 hydration/oxidation states, or because one or more atoms within the molecule are
   switched, such as, but not limited to, replacing an oxygen atom with a sulphur atom or
   replacing an amino group with a hydroxyl group, The derivative may be a prodrug.
   Derivatives may be prepare by any variety of synthetic methods or appropriate adaptations
   presented in synthetic or organic chemistry text books, such as those provide in March's
20 Advanced Organic Chemistry: Reactions, Mechanisms, and Structure, Wiley, 6th Edition
   (2007) Michael B. Smith or Domino Reactions in Organic Synthesis, Wiley (2006) Lutz F.
   Tietze hereby incorporated by reference.
           An "excipient" refers to an inert substance added to a pharmaceutical composition
   to further facilitate administration of a compound. Examples, without limitation, of
25 excipients include calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate, various sugars and types of
   starch, cellulose derivatives, gelatin, vegetable oils and polyethylene glycols.
   Compounds
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to compounds Formula I:
30
                                                   10

                                             0              R9
                                        RIU     0       Ra        Z
                                          0     N     X    N 6R
                                  R2
                                          R'                R
                                                R4    0
                                              Formula I
           or salts thereof wherein
 5         X is 0, S, or NH;
           U and Y are each 0, S, NH, Nalkyl, or CH 2 ;
           Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R' is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
10 carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (aLkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
   arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R' is optionally substituted with one or more,
   the same or different, R 5 ;
           R2 is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
   carbamoyl, alkoxy, atkylthio, aLkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
15 arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R2 is optionally substituted with
   one or more, the same or different, R' 5 ;
           R3 , R, R5, R6 , R7, R', and R? are each individually and independently hydrogen,
   alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
   alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfmyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
20 carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R, R 4, R, R, R', R', and R9 are optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R"5 is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   aLkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R" is optionally
25 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R 6 ; and
           R16 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, N,N
30 dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
                                                   I1

   ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, NN-dimethylsulfamoyl, N,N
   diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
           In certain embodiments, -O(C=O)-U-R' and/or -O(C=0)-Y-R2 are an amino acid
 5 ester or polypeptide ester.
           In certain embodiments, X is 0.
           In certain embodiments, R' and R? are a halogen, one of or both.
           In certain embodiments, Z is hydrogen or a nonaromatic heterocyclyl bond to the
   phenyl ring through a nitrogen heteroatom.
10         In certain embodiments, U and Y are oxygen.
           In certain embodiments, U and Y are NH or Nalkyl; and R' and R2 are alkyl.
           In certain embodiments, R', R4, R, Ri, R, R', and R9 are hydrogen.
           In certain embodiments, the compound is selected from:
           4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(methylcarbamate);
15         4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl dipropionate;
           4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(2,2-dimethylpropanoate);
           diethyl (4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl) dicarbonate;
           4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(ethylcarbamate);
           4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(dimethylcarbamate); and
20         4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(3-methylbutanoate) or salts thereof.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to compounds Formula II:
                                           0               R9
                                        RI 0         Ra         Z
                                  R2     0 N
                                        OX         X I, N,
                                                                R7
                                     O R3     -
                                                /     I R5R
                                                         R6
                                              R4   0
                                             Formula H
           or salts thereof wherein
25         X is 0, S, or NH;
           Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R' and R2 are a heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more, the same or
   different, R"; or
                                                  12

           R' is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
   carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
   arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R' is optionally substituted with one or more,
   the same or different, R";
 5         R2 is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
   carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
   arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R2 is optionally substituted with
   one or more, the same or different, R";
           R3, R 4 , R', R, R7, R', and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
10 alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
   alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfmyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
   carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R3, R4, R', R6, R7, R,   and R9 are optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R" is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
15 mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R15 is optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R16 ; and
           R16 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluommethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
20 acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, NN
   dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
   ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, NN-dimethylsulfamoyl, NN
25 diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
           In certain embodiments, -O(C=O)-R' and/or -O(C=0)-R2 are an amino acid ester
   or polypeptide ester.
           In certain embodiments, X is 0.
           In certain embodiments, R7 and R9 are a halogen, one of or both.
30         In certain embodiments, Z is hydrogen or a nonaromatic heterocyclyl bond to the
   phenyl ring through a nitrogen heteroatom.
           In certain embodiments, R' and R2 are pyridinyl.
           In certain embodiments, R', R4, R', R6, R , R', and R9 are hydrogen.
                                                  13

            In certain embodiments, the compound is 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl
   diisonicotinate.
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to compounds Fornula III:
                                         RO                         R
                                                       R4   0
 5                                           Formula III
            or salts thereof wherein
            n are each individually and independently I to 22;
            X is 0, S, or NH;
            Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
10 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
            R10, R", R , and R are each individually and independently hydrogen, alkyl,
   halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy,
   alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl,
   aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R' , R", R", and R'3 are optionally substituted with one or
15 more, the same or different, R";
            R3, R4 , R', R, R7, R', and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
   alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
   alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
   carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R, R4, R', R6, R7, R,    and R9 are optionally
20 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
            R" is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R"5 is optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R16 ; and
25          R16 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluommethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, N,N
   dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
30 ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
                                                  14

   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, NN-dimethylsulfamoyl, NN
   diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl;
           R" and RY are each individually and independently hydrogen, alkyl, halogen,
   nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio,
 5 alkylamino, (alkyl)2 amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or
   heterocyclyl, wherein RO and R" are optionally substituted with one or more, the same or
   different, R4;
           R4 is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
10 alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R4 is optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R 4 1; and
           R 4' is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluommethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
15 ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, N,N
   dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
   ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, NN-dimethylsulfamoyl, NN
   diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
20         In certain embodiments, n are each individually and independently 1, 2, or 3.
           In certain embodiments, R" and R" and the attached atoms come together to form
   a heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"5 .
           In certain embodiments, R" and R"3 and the attached atoms come together to form
   a heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more, the same or different, R '.
25         In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to compounds Formula IV:
                                           R12' R13           R9
                                  RioN    ORa N /          R8    R z
                                                R4    0
                                              Formula IV
           or salts thereof wherein
           X is 0, S, or NH;
                                                  15

            Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"5 ;
            R3 , R4 , Ri, R6, R7, R8, and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
   alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
 5 alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
   carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R', R 4, R', R6, R', R', and R9 are optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
            R 1, R", R , and R       are each individually and independently hydrogen, alkyl,
   halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy,
10 alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl,
   aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R', R", R , and R" are optionally substituted with one or
   more, the same or different, R"; or
            R 0 and R"' and the attached atoms come together to form a heterocyclyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R' 5 ;
15          R 1 and R      and the attached atoms come together to form a heterocyclyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
            R'" is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R' 5 is optionally
20 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R 1; and
            Ri" is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluoomethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, NN
25 dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
   ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, N,N-dimethylsulfamoyl, N,N
   diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to compounds Formula V:
                                                     16

                                                N m
                               Y   r~n)n      0~ 0za           /     z"
                                    NX
                                      Tw+O              x            RI
                                           0 Rat            RS R6
                                                  R4    0
                                              Formula V
           or salts thereof wherein
           the broken lines are optionally double bonds;
 5         n is 0, 1, or 2;
           m is 0, 1, or 2;
           p is 0, or I to 22;
           W is at each occurrence CH2 , CHR 4 , CR14 2 , C=O, 0, S, NH, or NR 4 ;
           X is 0, S, or NH;
10         Y is at each occurrence selected from 0, S, CH 2 , CH, CHR 4 , C=O, NH, or NR14 ;
           Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoaLkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R', R, R', Ri, R7, R', and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
   alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
15 alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
   carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R , R, R, R6, R', R , and R9 are optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
           R14 is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
   carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
20 arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R 4 is optionally substituted with
   one or more, the same or different, R' 5 ;
           R'5 is independently selected aLkyl, halogen, nito, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R" is optionally
25 substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"; and
           R16 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino,
   formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
                                                  17

   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, NN
   dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
   ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
   ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, N,N-dimethylsulfamoyl, NN
 5 diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
           In certain embodiments, n is 0 or 1.
           In certain embodiments, m is 0 or 1.
           In certain embodiments, p is 0, 1, or 2.
           In certain embodiments, W is a bond when p is 0 or CH 2 when p is 1 or 2.
10         In certain embodiments, X is 0.
                                                        4
           In certain embodiments, Y is NH or NR1 .
           In certain embodiments, Z is H.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to compounds Formula VI:
                                               Y
                                               N    ))m       R9
                                        N    O          X          I
                                           OR31    /        R5R
                                                  R4    0
15                                            Formula VI
           or salts thereof wherein
           n is 0, 1, or 2;
           m is 0, 1, or 2;
           X is 0, S, or NH;
20         Y is at each occurrence selected from 0, S, CH 2 , CHR' 4 , C=O, NH, or NR 14;
           Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"5 ;
           R3 , R4 , R', R6 , R', R', and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
   alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
25 alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
   carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R', R , R', R6, R', R', and R9 are optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"5 ;
                                                    18

              4
           R    is aLkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
   carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (aLkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
   arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R14 is optionally substituted with
   one or more, the same or different, R' 5 ;
 5         R" is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
   mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino,
   alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R'" is optionally
   substituted with one or more, the same or different, R 1; and
           R16 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino,
10 formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
   acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
   ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, N,N
   dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
   ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
15 ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, N,N-dimethylsulfamoyl, N,N
   diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
           In certain embodiments, n is 0 or 1.
           In certain embodiments, m is 0 or 1.
           In certain embodiments, X is 0.
20         In certain embodiments, Y is NH or NR".
           In certain embodiments, Z is H.
   Formulations
           Pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be in the form of
25 pharmaceutically acceptable salts, as generally described below. Some preferred, but non
   limiting examples of suitable pharmaceutically acceptable organic and/or inorganic acids
   are hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, acetic acid and citric
   acid, as well as other pharmaceutically acceptable acids known per se (for which reference
   is made to the references referred to below).
30         When the compounds of the disclosure contain an acidic group as well as a basic
   group, the compounds of the disclosure may also form internal salts, and such compounds
   are within the scope of the disclosure. When a compound contains a hydrogen-donating
   heteroatom (e.g. NH), salts are contemplated to covers isomers formed by transfer of said
   hydrogen atom to a basic group or atom within the molecule.
                                                   19

            Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds include the acid addition and
   base salts thereof Suitable acid addition salts are formed from acids which form non-toxic
   salts. Examples include the acetate, adipate, aspartate, benzoate, besylate,
   bicarbonate/carbonate, bisulphate/sulphate, borate, camsylate, citrate, cyclamate, edisylate,
 5 esylate, formate, fumarate, gluceptate, gluconate, glucuronate, hexafluorophosphate,
   hibenzate, hydrochloride/chloride, hydrobromide/bromide, hydroiodide/iodide, isethionate,
   lactate, malate, maleate, malonate, mesylate, methylsulphate, naphthylate, 2-napsylate,
   nicotinate, nitrate, orotate, oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, phosphate/hydrogen
   phosphate/dihydrogen phosphate, pyroglutamate, saccharate, stearate, succinate, tannate,
10 tartrate, tosylate, trifluoroacetate and xinofoate salts. Suitable base salts are formed from
   bases which form non-toxic salts. Examples include the aluminium, arginine, benzathine,
   calcium, choline, diethylamine, diolamine, glycine, lysine, magnesium, meglumine,
   olamine, potassium, sodium, trometharine and zinc salts. Hemisalts of acids and bases
   may also be formed, for example, hemisulphate and hemicalcium salts. For a review on
15 suitable salts, see Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts: Properties, Selection, and Use by
   Stahl and Wermuth (Wiley-VCH, 2002), incorporated herein by reference.
            The compounds described herein may be administered in the form of prodrugs. A
   prodrug can include a covalently bonded carrier which releases the active parent drug
   when administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs can be prepared by modifying
20 functional groups present in the compounds in such a way that the modifications are
   cleaved, either in routine manipulation or in vivo, to the parent compounds. Prodrugs
   include, for example, compounds wherein a hydroxyl group is bonded to any group that,
   when administered to a mammalian subject, cleaves to form a free hydroxyl group.
   Examples of prodrugs include, but are not limited to, acetate, formate and benzoate
25 derivatives of alcohol functional groups in the compounds. Methods of structuring a
   compound as prodrugs can be found in the book of Testa and Mayer, Hydrolysis in Drug
   and Prodrug Metabolism, Wiley (2006). Typical prodrugs form the active metabolite by
   transformation of the prodrug by hydrolytic enzymes, the hydrolysis of amide, lactams,
   peptides, carboxylic acid esters, epoxides or the cleavage of esters of inorganic acids.
30          Pharmaceutical compositions for use in the present disclosure typically comprise
   an effective amount of a compound and a suitable pharmaceutical acceptable carrier. The
   preparations may be prepared in a manner known per se, which usually involves mixing
   the at least one compound according to the disclosure with the one or more
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, and, if desired, in combination with other
                                                   20

   pharmaceutical active compounds, when necessary under aseptic conditions. Reference is
   again made to U.S. Pat. No. 6,372,778, U.S. Pat. No. 6,369,086, U.S. Pat. No. 6,369,087
   and U.S. Pat. No. 6,372,733 and the further references mentioned above, as well as to the
   standard handbooks, such as the latest edition of Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences.
 5         Generally, for pharmaceutical use, the compounds may be formulated as a
   pharmaceutical preparation comprising at least one compound and at least one
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent or excipient and/or adjuvant, and optionally
   one or more further pharmaceutically active compounds.
           The pharmaceutical preparations of the disclosure am preferably in a unit dosage
10 form, and may be suitably packaged, for example in a box, blister, vial, bottle, sachet,
   ampoule or in any other suitable single-dose or multi-dose holder or container (which may
   be properly labeled); optionally with one or more leaflets containing product information
   and/or instructions for use. Generally, such unit dosages will contain between I and 1000
   mg, and usually between 5 and 500 mg, of the at least one compound of the disclosure, e.g.
15 about 10, 25, 50, 100, 200, 300 or 400 mg per unit dosage.
           The compounds can be administered by a variety of routes including the oral,
   ocular, rectal, transdermal, subcutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular or intranasal routes,
   depending mainly on the specific preparation used. The compound will generally be
   administered in an "effective amount", by which is meant any amount of a compound that,
20 upon suitable administration, is sufficient to achieve the desired therapeutic or
   prophylactic effect in the subject to which it is administered. Usually, depending on the
   condition to be prevented or treated and the route of administration, such an effective
   amount will usually be between 0.01 to 1000 mg per kilogram body weight of the patient
   per day, more often between 0.1 and 500 mg, such as between 1 and 250 mg, for example
25 about 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 150, 200 or 250 mg, per kilogram body weight of the patient per
   day, which may be administered as a single daily dose, divided over one or more daily
   doses. The amount(s) to be administered, the route of administration and the further
   treatment regimen may be determined by the treating clinician, depending on factors such
   as the age, gender and general condition of the patient and the nature and severity of the
30 disease/symptoms to be treated. Reference is again made to U.S. Pat. No. 6,372,778, U.S.
   Pat. No. 6,369,086, U.S. Pat. No. 6,369,087 and U.S. Pat. No. 6,372,733 and the further
   references mentioned above, as well as to the standard handbooks, such as the latest
   edition of Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences.
                                                  21

            Depending upon the manner of introduction, the compounds described herein may
   be formulated in a variety of ways. Formulations containing one or more inhibitors can be
   prepared in various pharmaceutical forms, such as granules, tablets, capsules,
   suppositories, powders, controlled release formulations, suspensions, emulsions, creams,
 5 gels, ointments, salves, lotions, or aerosols and the like. Preferably, these formulations are
   employed in solid dosage forms suitable for simple, and preferably oral, administration of
   precise dosages. Solid dosage forms for oral administration include, but are not limited to,
   tablets, soft or hard gelatin or non-gelatin capsules, and caplets. However, liquid dosage
   forms, such as solutions, syrups, suspension, shakes, etc. can also be utilized. In another
10 embodiment, the formulation is administered topically. Suitable topical formulations
   include, but are not limited to, lotions, ointments, creams, and gels. In a preferred
   embodiment, the topical formulation is a gel. In another embodiment, the formulation is
   administered intranasally.
            Formulations containing one or more of the compounds described herein may be
15 prepared using a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier composed of materials that are
   considered safe and effective and may be administered to an individual without causing
   undesirable biological side effects or unwanted interactions The carrier is all components
   present in the pharmaceutical formulation other than the active ingredient or ingredients.
   As generally used herein "carrier" includes, but is not limited to, diluents, binders,
20 lubricants, disintegrators, fillers, pH modifying agents, preservatives, antioxidants,
   solubility enhancers, and coating compositions.
            Carrier also includes all components of the coating composition which may include
   plasticizers, pigments, colorants, stabilizing agents, and glidants. Delayed release,
   extended release, and/or pulsatile release dosage formulations may be prepared as
25 described in standard references such as "Pharmaceutical dosage form tablets", eds.
   Liberman et. al. (New York, Marcel Dekker, Inc., 1989), "Remington - The science and
   practice of pharmacy", 20th ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2000,
   and "Pharmaceutical dosage forms and drug delivery systems", 6th Edition, Ansel et al.,
   (Media, PA: Williams and Wilkins, 1995). These references provide information on
30 carriers, materials, equipment and process for preparing tablets and capsules and delayed
   release dosage forms of tablets, capsules, and granules.
            Examples of suitable coating materials include, but are not limited to, cellulose
   polymers such as cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate and hydroxypropyl
                                                  22

   methylcellulose acetate succinate; polyvinyl acetate phthalate, acrylic acid polymers and
   copolymers, and methacrylic resins that are commercially available under the trade name
   EUDRAGIT@ (Roth Pharma, Westerstadt, Germany), zein, shellac, and polysaccharides.
            Additionally, the coating material may contain conventional carriers such as
 5 plasticizers, pigments, colorants, glidants, stabilization agents, pore former and
   surfactants.
            Optional pharmaceutically acceptable excipients present in the drug-containing
   tablets, beads, granules or particles include, but are not limited to, diluents, binders,
   lubricants, disintegrants, colorants, stabilizers, and surfactants. Diluents, also referred to
10 as "fillers," are typically necessary to increase the bulk of a solid dosage form so that a
   practical size is provided for compression of tablets or formation of beads and granules.
   Suitable diluents include, but are not limited to, dicalcium phosphate dihydrate, calcium
   sulfate, lactose, sucrose, mannitol, sorbitol, cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, kaolin,
   sodium chloride, dry starch, hydrolyzed starches, pregelatinized starch, silicone dioxide,
15 titanium oxide, magnesium aluminum silicate and powdered sugar.
            Binders are used to impart cohesive qualities to a solid dosage formulation, and
   thus ensure that a tablet or bead or granule remains intact after the formation of the dosage
   forms. Suitable binder materials include, but are not limited to, starch, pregelatinized
   starch, gelatin, sugars (including sucrose, glucose, dextrose, lactose and sorbitol),
20 polyethylene glycol, waxes, natural and synthetic gums such as acacia, tragacanth, sodium
   alginate, cellulose, including hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxypopylcellulose,
   ethylcellulose, and veegum, and synthetic polymers such as acrylic acid and methacrylic
   acid copolymers, methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl methacrylate copolymers,
   aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymers, polyacrylic acid/polymethacrylic acid and
25 polyvinylpyrrolidone.
            Lubricants are used to facilitate tablet manufacture. Examples of suitable
   lubricants include, but are not limited to, magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, stearic
   acid, glyceryl behenate, polyethylene glycol, talc, and mineral oil.
            Disintegrants are used to facilitate dosage form disintegration or "breakup" after
30 administration, and generally include, but are not limited to, starch, sodium starch
   glycolate, sodium carboxymethyl starch, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropyl
   cellulose, pregelatinized starch, clays, cellulose, alginine, gums or cross linked polymers,
   such as cross-linked PVP (Polyplasdone XL from GAF Chemical Corp).
                                                   23

           Stabilizers are used to inhibit or retard drug decomposition reactions which include,
   by way of example, oxidative reactions.
           Surfactants may be anionic, cationic, amphoteric or nonionic surface active agents.
   Suitable anionic surfactants include, but are not limited to, those containing carboxylate,
 5 sulfonate and sulfate ions. Examples of anionic surfactants include sodium, potassium,
   ammonium of long chain alkyl sulfonates and alkyl aryl sulfonates such as sodium
   dodecylbenzene sulfonate; dialkyl sodium sulfosuccinates, such as sodium
   dodecylbenzene sulfonate; dialkyl sodium sulfosuccinates, such as sodium bis-(2
   ethylthioxyl)-sulfosuccinate; and alkyl sulfates such as sodium lauryl sulfate. Cationic
10 surfactants include, but are not limited to, quaternary ammonium compounds such as
   benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, cetrimonium bromide, stearyl
   dimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride, polyoxyethylene and coconut amine. Examples of
   nonionic surfactants include ethylene glycol monostearate, propylene glycol myristate,
   glyceryl monostearate, glyceryl stearate, polyglyceryl-4-oleate, sorbitan acylate, sucrose
15 acylate, PEG-150 laurate, PEG-400 monolaurate, polyoxyethylene monolaurate,
   polysorbates, polyoxyethylene octylphenylether, PEG-1000 cetyl ether, polyoxyethylene
   tridecyl ether, polypropylene glycol butyl ether, Poloxamer@ 401, stearoyl
   monoisopropanolamide, and polyoxyethylene hydrogenated tallow amide. Examples of
   amphoteric surfactants include sodium N-dodecyl-beta-alanine, sodium N-lauryl-beta
20 iminodipropionate, myristoamphoacetate, lauryl betaine and lauryl sulfobetaine.
           If desired, the tablets, beads, granules, or particles may also contain minor amount
   of nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting or emulsifying agents, dyes, pH buffering
   agents, or preservatives.
           The concentration of the inhibitor(s) to carrier and/or other substances may vary
25 from about 0.5 to about 100 wt.% (weight percent). For oral use, the pharmaceutical
   formulation will generally contain from about 5 to about 00% by weight of the active
   material. For other uses, the pharmaceutical formulation will generally have from about
   0.5 to about 50 wt. % of the active material.
           The compositions described herein can be formulation for modified or controlled
30 release. Examples of controlled release dosage forms include extended release dosage
   forms, delayed release dosage forms, pulsatile release dosage forms, and combinations
   thereof
           The extended release formulations are generally prepared as diffusion or osmotic
   systems, for example, as described in "Remington - The science and practice of pharmacy"
                                                   24

   (20th ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore, MD, 2000). A diffusion system
   typically consists of two types of devices, a reservoir and a matrix, and is well known and
   described in the art. The matrix devices are generally prepared by compressing the drug
   with a slowly dissolving polymer carrier into a tablet form. The three major types of
 5 materials used in the preparation of matrix devices are insoluble plastics, hydrophilic
   polymers, and fatty compounds. Plastic matrices include, but are not limited to, methyl
   acrylate-methyl methacrylate, polyvinyl chloride, and polyethylene. Hydrophilic
   polymers include, but are not limited to, cellulosic polymers such as methyl and ethyl
   cellulose, hydroxyalkylcelluloses such as hydroxypropyl-cellulose,
10 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, sodium carboxymethylcellulose, and Carbopol@ 934,
   polyethylene oxides and mixtures thereof. Fatty compounds include, but are not limited to,
   various waxes such as carnauba wax and glyceryl tristearate and wax-type substances
   including hydrogenated castor oil or hydrogenated vegetable oil, or mixtures thereof
           In certain preferred embodiments, the plastic material is a pharmaceutically
15 acceptable acrylic polymer, including but not limited to, acrylic acid and methacrylic acid
   copolymers, methyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate copolymers, ethoxyethyl
   methacrylates, cyanoethyl methacrylate, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, poly(acrylic
   acid), poly(methacrylic acid), methacrylic acid alkylamine copolymer poly(methyl
   methacrylate), poly(methacrylic acid)(anhydride), polymethacrylate, polyacrylamide,
20 poly(methacrylic acid anhydride), and glycidyl methacrylate copolymers.
           In certain preferred embodiments, the acrylic polymer is comprised of one or more
   ammonio methacrylate copolymers. Ammonio methacrylate copolymers are well known
   in the art, polymerized copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic acid esters with a low
   content of quaternary ammonium groups.
25         In one preferred embodiment, the acrylic polymer is an acrylic resin lacquer such
   as that which is commercially available from Rohm Pharma under the tradename
   Eudragit@. In further preferred embodiments, the acrylic polymer comprises a mixture of
   two acrylic resin lacquers commercially available from Robm Pharma under the
   tradenames Eudragit@ RL30D and Eudragit @ RS30D, respectively. Eudragit@ RL30D
30 and Eudragit@ RS30D are copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic esters with a low content
   of quaternary ammonium groups, the molar ratio of ammonium groups to the remaining
   neutral (meth)acrylic esters being 1:20 in Eudragit@ RL30D and 1:40 in Eudragit
   RS30D. The mean molecular weight is about 150,000. Edragit@ S-100 and Eudragit@ L
   100 are also preferred. The code designations RL (high permeability) and RS (low
                                                 25

   permeability) refer to the permeability properties of these agents. Eudragit@ RL/RS
   mixtures are insoluble in water and in digestive fluids. However, multiparticulate systems
   formed to include the same are swellable and permeable in aqueous solutions and
   digestive fluids.
 5          The polymers described above such as Eudragit@ RL/RS may be mixed together in
   any desired ratio in order to ultimately obtain a sustained-release formulation having a
   desirable dissolution profile. Desirable sustained-release multiparticulate systems may be
   obtained, for instance, from 100% Eudragit@ RL, 50% Eudragit@ RL and 50% Eudragit@
   RS, and 10% Eudragit@ RL and 90% Eudragit@ RS. One skilled in the art will recognize
10 that other acrylic polymers may also be used, such as, for example, Eudragit@ L.
            Alternatively, extended release formulations can be prepared using osmotic
   systems or by applying a semi-permeable coating to the dosage form. In the latter case,
   the desired drug release profile can be achieved by combining low permeable and high
   permeable coating materials in suitable proportion.
15          The devices with different drug release mechanisms described above can be
   combined in a final dosage form comprising single or multiple units. Examples of
   multiple units include, but are not limited to, multilayer tablets and capsules containing
   tablets, beads, or granules. An immediate release portion can be added to the extended
   release system by means of either applying an immediate release layer on top of the
20 extended release core using a coating or compression process or in a multiple unit system
   such as a capsule containing extended and immediate release beads.
            Extended release tablets containing hydrophilic polymers are prepared by
   techniques commonly known in the art such as direct compression, wet granulation, or dry
   granulation. Their formulations usually incorporate polymers, diluents, binders, and
25 lubricants as well as the active pharmaceutical ingredient. The usual diluents include inert
   powdered substances such as starches, powdered cellulose, especially crystalline and
   microcrystalline cellulose, sugars such as fructose, mannitol and sucrose, grain flours and
   similar edible powders. Typical diluents include, for example, various types of starch,
   lactose, mannitol, kaolin, calcium phosphate or sulfate, inorganic salts such as sodium
30 chloride and powdered sugar. Powdered cellulose derivatives are also useful. Typical
   tablet binders include substances such as starch, gelatin and sugars such as lactose,
   fructose, and glucose. Natural and synthetic gums, including acacia, alginates,
   methylcellulose, and polyvinylpyrrolidone can also be used. Polyethylene glycol,
   hydrophilic polymers, ethylcellulose and waxes can also serve as binders. A lubricant is
                                                  26

   necessary in a tablet formulation to prevent the tablet and punches from sticking in the die.
   The lubricant is chosen from such slippery solids as talc, magnesium and calcium stearate,
   stearic acid and hydrogenated vegetable oils.
           Extended release tablets containing wax materials are generally prepared using
 5 methods known in the art such as a direct blend method, a congealing method, and an
   aqueous dispersion method. In the congealing method, the drug is mixed with a wax
   material and either spray- congealed or congealed and screened and processed.
           Delayed release formulations are created by coating a solid dosage form with a
   polymer film, which is insoluble in the acidic environment of the stomach, and soluble in
10 the neutral environment of the small intestine.
           The delayed release dosage units can be prepared, for example, by coating a drug
   or a drug-containing composition with a selected coating material. The drug-containing
   composition may be, e.g., a tablet for incorporation into a capsule, a tablet for use as an
   inner core in a "coated core" dosage form, or a plurality of drug-containing beads,
15 particles or granules, for incorporation into either a tablet or capsule. Preferred coating
   materials include bioerodible, gradually hydrolyzable, gradually water-soluble, and/or
   enzymatically degradable polymers, and may be conventional "enteric" polymers. Enteric
   polymers, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, become soluble in the higher
   pH environment of the lower gastrointestinal tract or slowly erode as the dosage form
20 passes through the gastrointestinal tract, while enzymatically degradable polymers are
   degraded by bacterial enzymes present in the lower gastrointestinal tract, particularly in
   the colon. Suitable coating materials for effecting delayed release include, but are not
   limited to, cellulosic polymers such as hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose,
   hydroxymethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl methyl
25 cellulose acetate succinate, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose phthalate, methylcellulose,
   ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate trimellitate
   and carboxymethylcellulose sodium; acrylic acid polymers and copolymers, preferably
   formed from acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, methyl
   methacrylate and/or ethyl methacrylate, and other methacrylic resins that are commercially
30 available under the tradename Eudragit@ (Rohm Pharma; Westerstadt, Germany),
   including Eudragit L30D-55 and LIOO-55 (soluble at pH 5.5 and above), Eudragit L
   100 (soluble at pH 6.0 and above), Eudragit@ S (soluble at pH 7.0 and above, as a result of
   a higher degree of esterification), and Eudragits@ NE, RL and RS (water-insoluble
   polymers having different degrees of permeability and expandability); vinyl polymers and
                                                  27

   copolymers such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone, vinyl acetate, vinylacetate phthalate,
   vinylacetate crotonic acid copolymer, and ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer;
   enzymatically degradable polymers such as azo polymers, pectin, chitosan, amylose and
   guar gum; zein and shellac. Combinations of different coating materials may also be used.
 5 Multi-layer coatings using different polymers may also be applied.
            The preferred coating weights for particular coating materials may be readily
   determined by those skilled in the art by evaluating individual release profiles for tablets,
   beads and granules prepared with different quantities of various coating materials. It is the
   combination of materials, method and form of application that produce the desired release
10 characteristics, which one can determine only from the clinical studies.
            The coating composition may include conventional additives, such as plasticizers,
   pigments, colorants, stabilizing agents, glidants, etc. A plasticizer is normally present to
   reduce the fragility of the coating, and will generally represent about 10 wt. %to 50 wt. %
   relative to the dry weight of the polymer. Examples of typical plasticizers include
15 polyethylene glycol, propylene glycol, triacetin, dimethyl phthalate, diethyl phthalate,
   dibutyl phthalate, dibutyl sebacate, triethyl citrate, tributyl citrate, triethyl acetyl citrate,
   castor oil and acetylated monoglycerides, A stabilizing agent is preferably used to
   stabilize particles in the dispersion. Typical stabilizing agents are nonionic emulsifiers
   such as sorbitan esters, polysorbates and polyvinylpyrrolidone. Glidants are
20 recommended to reduce sticking effects during film formation and drying, and will
   generally represent approximately 25 wt. % to 100 wt. % of the polymer weight in the
   coating solution. One effective glidant is talc. Other glidants such as magnesium stearate
   and glycerol monostearates may also be used. Pigments such as titanium dioxide may also
   be used. Small quantities of an anti-foaming agent, such as a silicone (e.g., simethicone),
25 may also be added to the coating composition.
            The formulation can provide pulsatile delivery of the one or more inhibitors. By
   "pulsatile" is meant that a plurality of drug doses are released at spaced apart intervals of
   time. Generally, upon ingestion of the dosage form, release of the initial dose is
   substantially immediate, i.e., the first drug release "pulse" occurs within about one hour of
30 ingestion. This initial pulse is followed by a first time interval (lag time) during which
   very little or no drug is released from the dosage form, after which a second dose is then
   released. Similarly, a second nearly drug release-free interval between the second and
   third drug release pulses may be designed. The duration of the nearly drug release-free
   time interval will vary depending upon the dosage form design e.g., a twice daily dosing
                                                   28

   profile, a three times daily dosing profile, etc. For dosage forms providing a twice daily
   dosage profile, the nearly drug release-free interval has a duration of approximately 3
   hours to 14 hours between the first and second dose. For dosage forms providing a three
   times daily profile, the nearly drug release-free interval has a duration of approximately 2
 5 hours to 8 hours between each of the three doses.
            In one embodiment, the pulsatile release profile is achieved with dosage forms that
   are closed and preferably sealed capsules housing at least two drug-containing "dosage
   units" wherein each dosage unit within the capsule provides a different drug release profile.
   Control of the delayed release dosage unit(s) is accomplished by a controlled release
10 polymer coating on the dosage unit, or by incorporation of the active agent in a controlled
   release polymer matrix. Each dosage unit may comprise a compressed or molded tablet,
   wherein each tablet within the capsule provides a different drug release profile. For
   dosage forms mimicking a twice a day dosing profile, a first tablet releases drug
   substantially immediately following ingestion of the dosage form, while a second tablet
15 releases drug approximately 3 hours to less than 14 hours following ingestion of the
   dosage form. For dosage forms mimicking a three times daily dosing profile, a first tablet
   releases drug substantially immediately following ingestion of the dosage form, a second
   tablet releases drug approximately 3 hours to less than 10 hours following ingestion of the
   dosage form, and the third tablet releases drug at least 5 hours to approximately 18 hours
20 following ingestion of the dosage form. It is possible that the dosage form includes more
   than three tablets. While the dosage form will not generally include more than a third
   tablet, dosage forms housing more than three tablets can be utilized.
            Alternatively, each dosage unit in the capsule may comprise a plurality of drug
   containing beads, granules or particles. As is known in the art, drug-containing "beads"
25 refer to beads made with drug and one or more excipients or polymers. Drug-containing
   beads can be produced by applying drug to an inert support, e.g., inert sugar beads coated
   with drug or by creating a "core" comprising both drug and one or more excipients. As is
   also known, drug-containing "granules" and "particles" comprise drug particles that may
   or may not include one or more additional excipients or polymers. In contrast to drug
30 containing beads, granules and particles do not contain an inert support. Granules
   generally comprise drug particles and require further processing. Generally, particles are
   smaller than granules, and are not further processed. Although beads, granules and
   particles may be formulated to provide immediate release, beads and granules are
   generally employed to provide delayed release.
                                                  29

           In one embodiment, the compound is formulated for topical administration.
   Suitable topical dosage forms include lotions, creams, ointments, and gels. A "gel" is a
   semisolid system containing a dispersion of the active agent, i.e., inhibitor, in a liquid
   vehicle that is rendered semisolid by the action of a thickening agent or polymeric material
 5 dissolved or suspended in the liquid vehicle. The liquid may include a lipophilic
   component, an aqueous component or both. Some emulsions may be gels or otherwise
   include a gel component. Some gels, however, are not emulsions because they do not
   contain a homogenized blend of immiscible components. Methods for preparing lotions,
   creams, ointments, and gels are well known in the art.
10         The compounds described herein can be administered in combination with other
   active compounds. These compounds include but are not limited to analgesics, anti
   inflammatory drugs, antipyretics, antidepressants, antiepileptics, antihistamines,
   antimigraine drugs, antimuscarinics, anxioltyics, sedatives, hypnotics, antipsychotics,
   bronchodilators, anti-asthma drugs, cardiovascular drugs, corticosteroids, dopaminergics,
15 electrolytes, gastro-intestinal drugs, muscle relaxants, nutritional agents, vitamins,
   parasympathomimetics, stimulants, anorectics and anti-narcoleptics.
           Specific examples of compounds that can be adjunctively administered with the
   compounds include, but are not limited to, aceclofenac, acetaminophen, adomexetine,
   almotriptan, alprazolam, amantadine, amcinonide, aminocyclopropane, amitriptyline,
20 amolodipine, amoxapine, amphetamine, aripiprazole, aspirin, atomoxetine, azasetron,
   azatadine, beclomethasone, benactyzine, benoxaprofen, bermoprofen, betamethasone,
   bicifadine, bromocriptine, budesonide, buprenorphine, bupropion, buspirone, butorphanol,
   butriptyline, caffeine, carbamazepine, carbidopa, carisoprodol, celecoxib,
   chlordiazepoxide, chlorpromazine, choline salicylate, citalopram, clomipramine,
25 clonazepam, clonidine, clonitazene, clorazepate, clotiazepam, cloxazolam, clozapine,
   codeine, corticosterone, cortisone, cyclobenzaprine, cyproheptadine, demexiptiline,
   desipramine, desomorphine, dexamethasone, dexanabinol, dextroamphetamine sulfate,
   dextromoramide, dextropropoxyphene, dezocine, diazepam, dibenzepin, diclofenac
   sodium, diflunisal, dihydrocodeine, dihydroergotamine, dihydromorphine, dimetacrine,
30 divalproxex, dizatriptan, dolasetron, donepezil, dothiepin, doxepin, duloxetine, ergotamine,
   escitalopram, estazolam, ethosuximide, etodolac, femoxetine, fenamates, fenoprofen,
   fentanyl, fludiazepam, fluoxetine, fluphenazine, flurazepam, flurbiprofen, flutazolam,
   fluvoxamine, frovatriptan, gabapentin, galantamine, gepirone, ginko bilboa, granisetron,
   haloperidol, huperzine A, hydrocodone, hydrocortisone, hydromorphone, hydroxyzine,
                                                 30

   ibuprofen, imipramine, indiplon, indomethacin, indoprofen, iprindole, ipsapirone,
   ketaserin, ketoprofen, ketorolac, lesopitron, levodopa, lipase, lofepramine, lorazepam,
   loxapine, maprotiline, mazindol, mefenamic acid, melatonin, melitracen, memantine,
   meperidine, meprobamate, mesalamine, metapramine, metaxalone, methadone, methadone,
 5 methamphetamine, methocarbamol, methyldopa, methylphenidate, methylsalicylate,
   methysergid(e), metoclopramide, mianserin, mifepristone, milnacipran, minaprine,
   mirtazapine, moclobemide, modafinil (an anti-narcoleptic), molindone, morphine,
   morphine hydrochloride, nabumetone, nadolol, naproxen, naratriptan, nefazodone,
   neurontin, nomifensine, nortriptyline, otanzapine, olsalazine, ondansetron, opipramol,
10 orphenadrine, oxaflozane, oxaprazin, oxazepam, oxitriptan, oxycodone, oxymorphone,
   pancrelipase, parecoxib, paroxetine, pemoline, pentazocine, pepsin, perphenazine,
   phenacetin, phendimetrazine, phenmetrazine, phenylbutazone, phenytoin,
   phosphatidylserine, pimozide, pirlindole, piroxicam, pizotifen, pizotyline, pramipexole,
   prednisolone, prednisone, pregabalin, propanolol, propizepine, propoxyphene,
15 protriptyline, quazepam, quinupramine, reboxitine, reserpine, risperidone, ritanserin,
   rivastigmine, rizatriptan, rofecoxib, ropinirole, rotigotine, salsalate, sertraline, sibutramine,
   sildenafil, sulfasalazine, sulindac, sumatriptan, tacrine, temazepam, tetrabenozine,
   thiazides, thioridazine, thiothixene, tiapride, tiasipirone, tizanidine, tofenacin, tolmetin,
   toloxatone, topiramate, tramadol, trazodone, triazolam, trifluoperazine, trimethobenzamide,
20 trimipramine, tropisetron, valdecoxib, valproic acid, venlafaxine, viloxazine, vitamin E,
   zimeldine, ziprasidone, zolmitriptan, zolpidem, zopiclone and isomers, salts, and
   combinations thereof.
           The additional active agent(s) can be formulated for immediate release, controlled
   release, or combinations thereof.
25
   Methods of Use
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure relates to methods of preventing or treating
   a BDNF and TrkB related disease or condition comprising the administering an effective
   amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising compounds such as 7,8
30 dihydroxyflavone, prodrugs, and other compounds disclosed herein, to a subject in need
   thereof. In some embodiments, the subject is diagnosed with, exhibiting symptoms of, or
   at risk of the disease or condition. In some embodiments, the disease or condition is
   depression, anxiety, amytrophic later sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, Autism spectrum
   disorders, Huntington's disease, Rett syndrome, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease, post
                                                   31

   traumatic stress disorder, dementia, diabetic neuropathy, peripheral neuropathy, obesity, or
   stroke.
           In certain embodiments, the methods described herein include a method of treating
   or reducing the risk of disorders associated with activation of the TrkB receptor including
 5 neurological disorders, neuropsychiatric disorders, and metabolic disorders in a subject.
   Examples of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders include depression, anxiety,
   Alzheimer's, CNS injuries, and the like. Examples of metabolic disorders include obesity
   and hyperphagia. This method includes the steps of selecting a subject with or at risk of
   developing the neurological disorder, neuropsychiatric disorder, or obesity, and
10 administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound disclosed
   herein. The compound can be administered systemically (e.g., orally, parenterally (e.g.
   intravenously), intramuscularly, intreperitoneally, transdermally (e.g., by a patch),
   extracorporeally, topically, by inhalation, subcutaneously or the like), by administration
   into the central nervous system (e.g., into the brain (intracerebrally or intra ventricularly),
15 spinal cord, or into the cerebrospinal fluid), or any combination thereof
           The subject in need thereof can be a patient diagnosed as suffering from depression
   or anxiety. These diseases and their diagnoses are very clearly defined in the "Diagnostic
   and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV)" published by the American
   Psychiatric Association. This manual sets forth diagnostic criteria, descriptions and other
20 information to guide the classification and diagnosis of mental disorders and is commonly
   used in the field of neuropsychiatry. In certain embodiments, the patient is being
   administered an antidepressant or anti-anxiolytic medication. In certain embodiments, the
   patient has been diagnosed by a mental health professional (e.g., a psychiatrist) with an
   anxiety or depression disorder. Anxiety can be a symptom of an underlying health issue
25 such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), heart failure, or heart arrhythmia.
           The subject in need thereof can be a patient diagnosed as suffering from being
   overweight or obese. Being overweight and obesity can be diagnosed by health or
   nutritional professionals (e.g., physicians, nurses, dieticians, and the like) when the
   patient's body mass index (BMI), a measurement which compares weight and height, is
30 between 25 kg/m and 30 kg/m2 , and obese when it is greater than 30 kg/m2
           Also provided is a method of promoting neuroprotection in a subject. This method
   includes the steps of selecting a subject in need of neumprotection, and administering to
   the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound disclosed herein. A subject
   in need of neuroprotection can, for example, be a subject that has amyotrophic lateral
                                                  32

   sclerosis (ALS) or a central nervous system injury. A central nervous system injury
   includes, for example, a brain injury, a spinal cord injury, or a cerebrovascular event (e.g.,
   a stroke). Methods can further comprise testing the effectiveness of a compound disclosed
   herein. Testing the effectiveness can include, but is not limited to, imaging (e.g., Magnetic
 5 Resonance Imaging (MRI)) and functional measurements (e.g., survival or clinical
   symptoms like analysis of speech patterns, logic, comprehension, memory, mood, and
   orientation).
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplates the treatment of other mental
   disorders or conditions by administering effective amounts of compounds disclosed herein.
10 contemplated mental disorders and conditions include, but are not limited to, acute stress
   disorder, adjustment disorder, adolescent antisocial behavior, adult antisocial behavior,
   age-related cognitive decline, agoraphobia, alcohol-related disorder, Alzheimer's,
   amnestic disorder, anorexia nervosa, anxiety, attention deficit disorder, attention deficit
   hyperactivity disorder, autophagia, bereavement, bibliomania, binge eating disorder,
15 bipolar disorder, body dysmorphic disorder, bulimia nervosa, circadian rhythm sleep
   disorder, cocaine-addition, dysthymia, exhibitionism, gender identity disorder,
   Huntington's disease, hypochondria, multiple personality disorder, obsessive-compulsive
   disorder (OCD), obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD), posttraumatic stress
   disorder (PTSD), Rett syndrome, sadomasochism, and stuttering.
20
   Depression
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of depression
   with compounds disclosed herein. The most common psychological conditions is
   depression. Depression can be divided into several types. Major depression is the most
25 severe form of depression characterized by a severe, persistent depressed mood and loss of
   interest or pleasure in normal activities accompanied by decreased energy, changes in
   sleep habits, restless behavior, difficulty concentrating, loss of appetite, feelings of guilt or
   hopelessness, and in severe cases, psychotic symptoms such as hallucinations, delusions,
   and even suicidal thoughts. An individual typically has a history (greater than 2 weeks) of
30 persistent sad moods, loss of interest or pleasure in activities once enjoyed, and feelings of
   guilt or hopelessness, restless behavior, difficulty concentrating, and even suicidal
   thoughts in order to make a diagnosis of major depression. The Beck's Depression Scale
   Inventory, or other screen tests for depression, can be helpful in diagnosing depression.
                                                  33

            Major depression can be treated with medications and/or counseling. Studies have
   shown that antidepressant drug therapy combined with psychotherapy appears to have
   better results than either therapy alone. Medications used include, but are not limited to,
   tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, selective serotonin re-uptake
 5 inhibitor (SSRIs), and some new antidepressant drugs such as bupropion, reboxetine,
   trazodone, venlafaxine, and mitrazapine. Antipsychotic medications are needed for
   patients suffering from more severe forms of psychotic symptoms, such as delusions or
   hallucinations. Types of psychotherapy that have proven to be particularly effective for
   treating depression include interpersonal therapy, group therapy, and cognitive behavioral
10 therapy.
            Alternative therapeutic methods include the use of herbal products for management
   of chronic conditions, such as psychiatric disorders, including anxiety and depression. In
   addition, St. John's Wort (hypericum) has recently gained popularity as an adjunct
   antidepressant in the United States. The National Institute of Health has recently
15 sponsored a Hypericum Clinical Trial comparing 50 to 150 mg/day of sertraline (Zololoft),
   900 to 1800 mg/day of St. John's Wort, and placebo in 300 patients with major depression.
   The conclusion of the study was St. John's Wort was no more effective for treating major
   depression of moderate severity than a placebo (NIH News Release, Apr. 9, 2002). Side
   effects of St. John's Wort are mild and primarily include gastrointestinal symptoms and
20 fatigue. Therefore, there is a need in the art for alternative treatments, which are more
   effective and are associated with fewer side effects for treating major depression.
            A second form of depression is chronic low-grade depression, also known as
   dysthymia. Dysthymia is present most of the time for a period of two or more years
   wherein an individual experiences a decrease in his/her overall level of energy, appetite,
25 and sleep, as well as has feelings of low self-esteem and hopelessness. These symptoms
   cause distress and the individual has difficulty functioning in everyday activities. These
   symptoms, however, are not as severe as those symptoms experienced in major depression.
   The cause and maintenance of these symptoms are often due to one of the following
   problems: loss of a friend, substantial disappointment at work or home, prolonged or
30 chronic illness, and alcohol or drug abuse. People who suffer from dysthymia are at an
   increased risk for episodes of major depression. This produces a behavioral pattern called
   "double depression" wherein the individual is mildly depressed most of the time, with
   periodic symptoms of major depression.
                                                   34

            The least severe form of depression is a depressed mood. This is an emotional state
   dominated by feelings of sadness, gloominess, or emptiness, which may be associated with
   lack of energy. Depressed moods are usually temporary responses to an unhappy or
   stressful event. Treatments for such conditions are the same as discussed above in
 5 treatments for mild depressive disorders.
   Autism spectrum disorders
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of autism
   spectrum disorders with compounds disclosed herein. Autism Spectrum Disorder,
10 including Asperger Syndrome, is a spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders
   characterized by dysfunction in three core behavioral dimensions: repetitive behaviors,
   social deficits, and cognitive deficits. The repetitive behavior domain involves compulsive
   behaviors, unusual attachments to objects, rigid adherence to routines or rituals, and
   repetitive motor mannerisms such as stereotypies and self-stimulatory behaviors. The
15 social deficit dimension involves deficits in reciprocal social interactions, lack of eye
   contact, diminished ability to carry on conversation, and impaired daily interaction skills.
   The cognitive deficits can include language abnormalities.
            Administration of compounds disclosed herein may be when a child or infant
   shows the early signs of signs of autism spectrum disorder or other abnormal social or
20 behavioral development, or about the time of developmental landmarks in infants or
   children that show early signs of autism spectrum disorder or other abnormal or behavioral
   development. A therapeutic intervention administered during this period could reset the
   developmental trajectory of the child preventing the acquisition of second order social
   impairments.
25
   Bipolar Disorders
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of bipolar
   disorders with compounds disclosed herein. Bipolar disorder affects men and women
   equally and typically appears between the ages of 15 and 25. As opposed to unipolar
30 major depression, the incidence of bipolar disorder does not vary widely around the world.
   The exact cause is unknown, but it is linked to areas of the brain which regulate mood, and
   has a strong genetic component. The American Psychiatric Association's "Diagnostic and
   Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders" describes two types of bipolar disorder, type I and
   type II. The type I (formerly known as manic depressive disorder), there has been at least
                                                  35

   one full manic episode. People with this type, however, may also experience episodes of
   major depression. In type II disorder, periods of "hypomania" involve more attenuate (less
   severe) manic symptoms that alternate with at least one major depressive episode. When
   the patients have an acute exacerbation, they may be in a manic state, depressed state, or
 5 mixed state. The manic phase is characterized by elevated mood, hyperactivity, over
   involvement in activities, inflated self-esteem, a tendency to be easily distracted, or little
   need for sleep. In the depressive phase, there is loss of self-esteem, withdrawal, sadness, or
   a risk of suicide. Either the manic or the depressive episodes can predominate and produce
   a few mood swings, or the patterns of the mood swing may be cyclic. While in either
10 phase, patients may abuse alcohol or other substances, which worsens the symptoms.
           Methods for treating bipolar disorders differ depending upon the state of the
   patient. During an acute phase, hospitalization may be required to control the symptoms.
   In order to reduce the risk of switching into mania, hypomania or rapid cycling, a
   combination of a mood stabilizer (e.g. lithium; valproate) and/or antidepressants (e.g.,
15 bupropion) is utilized for controlling bipolar disorders. Even though lithium is often
   utilized in controlling manic and depressive relapses, careful medical supervision along
   with maintaining salt intake, avoiding non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and
   undertaking weight-reduction diets are typically performed in order to reduce possible
   renal failure. Valproate also is characterized by severe side effects including nausea,
20 vomiting, anorexia, heartburn, and diarrhea. Finally, the use of antidepressants for
   suppressing bipolar disorder is typically monitored in order to achieve symptomatic
   remission. Therefore, safer therapeutic methods are needed in the art in order to reduce the
   severe side effects associated with current treatments of bipolar disorders.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of cyclothymic
25 disorders with compounds disclosed herein. Cyclothymic disorders are similar to bipolar
   disorders, but less extreme. Cyclothymic disorders are characterized by stages of mild
   mood changes with stages of mild depression and excitement (hypomania). The changes in
   mood are very irregular and abrupt, but the severity of the swings is less. Cyclothymia is
   treated like bipolar disorders, though often not as aggressively. Thus, safer treatments are
30 needed in the art.
   Anxiety Disorders
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of anxiety
   disorders with compounds disclosed herein. Anxiety disorders, panic attacks, and
                                                  36

   agoraphobia are conditions that occur as a manifestation of primary mood disorders such
   as depression. Anxiety is a feeling of apprehension or fear that lingers due to an
   individual's perception of persistent and unrelenting stress. Anxiety is typically
   accompanied by various physical symptoms including twitching, trembling, muscle
 5 tension, headaches, sweating (e.g., night sweats), dry mouth, or difficulty swallowing.
   Some people also report dizziness, a rapid or irregular heart rate, increased rate of
   respiration, diarrhea, or frequent need to urinate when they are anxious. Fatigue, irritable
   mood, sleeping difficulties, decreased concentration, sexual problems, or nightmares are
   also common. Some people are more sensitive to stress and are thus more likely to
10 develop anxiety disorders. The propensity to succumb to anxiety attacks may be due to
   genetic predisposition or by previous (e.g. childhood) exposure to certain stresses.
           Treatment of anxiety disorders includes diagnostic tests for blood differential and
   thyroid function as well as an electrocardiogram (EKG). If any worrisome physical signs
   or symptoms do not accompany the anxiety, a referral to a mental health care professional
15 is recommended. Psychotherapy such as cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT) along with the
   medication benzodiazepines, which facilitate the actions of gamma-aminobutyric acid
   (GABA), the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the nervous system, are the most
   effective in severe cases of anxiety. In addition to these treatments, use of antidepressants
   such as imipramine and the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) paroxetine have
20 been shown to produce antianxiety benefit to anxiety patients. Treatment with
   benzodiazepines, however, is accompanied by fatigue, drowsiness, and unsteadiness. After
   successive treatments with benzodiazepines, patients often develop dependence to the drug
   and, therefore, careful medical monitoring is required. Thus, there is a need in the art for
   treatments that provide less drug dependence along with a reduction in side effects and
25 costs.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of panic
   disorders with compounds disclosed herein. Panic disorder, one of the anxiety disorders,
   is characterized by repeated and unexpected attacks of intense fear and anxiety. Panic
   attacks are usually not related to a particular situation and typically "peak" within ten
30 minutes of their onset. The exact cause of panic disorder is unknown, but it is associated
   with multiple physiological factors. Panic disorder can occur with or without agoraphobia,
   but agoraphobia develops in one-third of cases.
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of agoraphobia
   with compounds disclosed herein. Agoraphobia is a disorder characterized by avoidance
                                                   37

   of crowds, and open and public places, particularly if escape or assistance is not
   immediately available. The development of agoraphobia may involve learned behavior,
   since it reflects a fear of experiencing panic attacks in unprotected settings, and sometimes
   the association of panic attacks with areas where they have occurred. Panic disorder can
 5 occur in children, but the average age of onset is 25 years old. Panic disorder affects
   middle-aged and older adults as well. Studies have shown that women are 2 to 3 times
   more likely to be affected.
            Symptoms of panic disorder include shortness of breath, dizziness, palpitations,
   trembling, sweating, choking, nausea, numbness, chest pain, hot flashes or chills, fear of
10 dying, fear of losing control, or fear of going insane. Symptoms of agoraphobia include
   anxiety about being in places where escape might be difficult, fear of being alone, fear of
   losing control in a public place, feeling of helplessness, or feelings of detachment.
   Treatments for both disorders are similar to treatment of anxiety. Antidepressant
   medicines are typically used for treatment of many people with panic disorder and
15 agoraphobia including SSRIs such as Paxil. Behavior therapies are also used in
   conjunction with drug therapy including relaxation techniques, pleasant mental imagery,
   and cognitive behavioral therapy to restructure distorted and harmful interpretations of
   particular situations.
20 Attention Deficit Disorder (ADD)
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of attention
   deficit disorders (ADD) with compounds disclosed herein. Symptoms include
   developmentally inappropriate levels of attention, concentration, activity, distractibility,
   and impulsivity. There are three sub-categories of attention deficit disorder: (1) attention
25 deficit/hyperactivity disorder of the combined type; (2) attention deficit/hyperactivity
   disorder of the predominantly inattentive type; and (3) attention deficit/hyperactivity
   disorder of the predominantly hyperactive or impulsive type.
            A typical treatment strategy for ADD is using psychotropic medications such as
   Dexedine (dextroamphetamine), Ritalin (methylphenidate), and Cylert (magnesium
30 pemoline). Antidepressants (such as amitriptyline or fluoxetine), tranquilizers (such as
   thionidazine), alpha-adrenergic agonist (clonidine), and caffeine have also been tried to
   treat ADD. The disadvantage of these drugs is the lack of long term information on the
   affect these drugs have on the cognitive and emotional development of ADD children. In
   addition, medications such as antidepressants, tranquilizers, and caffeine have met with
                                                  38

   little success. A significant amount of research has been carried out studying
   psychological therapeutic treatments such as contingency management (e.g. time out),
   cognitive-behavioral treatment (e.g. self-monitoring, verbal self-instruction, problem
   solving strategies, and self-reinforcement), parent counseling, and individual
 5 psychotherapy. Studies using these techniques have yielded mixed results and no studies
   have been carried out combining psychological interventions with stimulant medications.
   Therefore, parents are directed to manage the symptoms and direct the child's energy to
   constructive and educational paths.
10 Sleep Disorders
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of sleep
   disorders with compounds disclosed herein. A sleep disorder is a disruptive pattern of
   sleep that may include difficulty: falling or staying asleep, falling asleep at inappropriate
   times, excessive total sleep time, or abnormal behaviors associated with sleep. There are
15 more than 100 different disorders of sleeping and waking. They can be grouped into four
   main categories: problems with staying and falling asleep (insomnia, e.g.), problems with
   staying awake (sleep state misperception, e.g.), problems with adhering to a regular sleep
   schedule (hypersomnias such as narcolepsy, e.g.), and sleep disruptive behaviors (sleep
   walking, e.g.). Both insomnia and sleep disruptive behaviors could be direct results of a
20 patient suffering from a psychological disorder such as depression or anxiety.
            In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of insomnia
   with compounds disclosed herein. Insomnia includes any combination of difficulty with
   falling asleep, staying asleep, intermittent wakefulness, and early-moming awakening and
   can lead to the following disorders: psychophysiological, delayed sleep phase syndrome,
25 hypnotic dependent disorder, and stimulant dependent sleep disorder. Episodes may be
   either transient (2-3 weeks) or chronic. Common factors associated with insomnia are
   depression, anxiety, stress, illness, caffeine, abuse of alcohol, medication, illness, physical
   discomfort, and counterproductive sleep habits such as early bedtimes and daytime
   napping. Treatment of insomnia is related to the cause. If there is an obvious physical or
30 psychological cause (such as depression), it is the first focus, of treatment.
            Sleep disruptive behaviors include sleep terror disorder, sleep walking or REM
   behavior disorders (a type of psychosis related to lack of REM sleep and lack of dreaming).
   Symptoms of sleep disruptive behaviors are depressed mood, anxiety, apathy, difficulty
   concentrating, irritability, daytime fatigue, drowsiness, and difficulty falling asleep. Again,
                                                   39

   treatment of sleep disruptive behaviors is often related to the cause. If there is an obvious
   physical or psychological cause, it is the first focus of treatment.
   Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
 5         In one aspect of the present disclosure, the psychiatric disorder to be treated is
   PTSD. PTSD is defined by DSM-IV as an anxiety disorder that an individual may develop
   following exposure to a traumatic event, and is characterized by (1) re-experiencing the
   traumatic event, such as recurrent nightmares, intrusive recollections of the event,
   flashbacks, physiological and psychological responses to internal or external cues relating
10 to the event, etc; (2) persistent avoidance of thoughts, people or places associated with the
   event; (3) numbing of general responsiveness such as emotional detachment, restricted
   affect or loss of interest in activities; and (4) persistence of increased arousal such as
   exaggerated startle response, hypervigilance, irritability, or difficulty sleeping, etc. In the
   US the lifetime prevalence of PTSD is at least 1%, and in high-risk populations, such as
15 combat veterans or victims of criminal violence, prevalence is reported to be between 3
   and 58%; PTSD is therefore of considerable public health concern.
   Schizophrenia
           In certain embodiments, the disclosure contemplated the treatment of
20 schizophrenia with compounds disclosed herein. Schizophrenia is characterized by a
   breakdown of thought processes and by poor emotional responsiveness and is generally
   accompanied by social or occupational dysfunction. It is often described in terms of
   positive and negative symptoms. Positive symptoms can include delusions, disorganized
   speech and thinking, and tactile, auditory, visual, olfactory, and gustatory hallucinations,
25 typically regarded as manifestations of psychosis. Positive symptoms generally respond
   well to medication. Negative symptoms are deficits of normal emotional responses or of
   other thought processes, and respond less well to medication. They commonly include flat
   or blunted affect and emotion, poverty of speech, inability to experience pleasure, lack of
   desire to form relationships, and lack of motivation. Research suggests that negative
30 symptoms contribute more to poor quality of life, functional disability, and the burden on
   others than do positive symptoms. Individuals with prominent negative symptoms often
   have a history of poor adjustment before the onset of illness, and response to medication is
   often limited.
                                                    40

           The onset of schizophrenia symptoms typically occurs in young adulthood.
   Diagnosis typically involves the patient meeting three criteria. The first is characteristic
   symptoms, in which the patient experiences two or more symptoms for more than one
   month including delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, catatonic behavior, and
 5 negative symptoms. The second is social or occupational dysfunction. The third is a
   significant duration, generally about six months. Treatment is generally anti-psychotic
   medications, often in combination with psychological and social supports.
           A subject undergoing treatment with the methods of the disclosure may exhibits an
   improvement in one or more symptoms associated with the psychiatric disorder. For a
10 description of the relevant symptoms, see, for example, the DSM-IV ((1994) Diagnostic
   and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed., American Psychiatric Association,
   Washington D.C.)), which is herein incorporated by reference. The efficacy of the
   methods of the disclosure can be assessed using any clinically recognized assessment
   method for measuring a reduction of one or more symptoms of the particular psychiatric
15 disorder. Examples of such assessment methods are described in, for example, in
   Experiment 7 of PCT Application W002/078629. "Alleviation of symptoms," in the
   context of a behavioral disorder, refers to improvement in the social or psychological
   function or health of a patient, as evaluated by any measure accepted in the art. Preferably,
   "alleviation of symptoms" is a clinically recognizable decrease in symptoms described in
20 DSM-IV-TR (American Psychiatric Association, 2000). The psychosocial function of a
   patient may be evaluated using standard measures provided in DSM-IV-TR (American
   Psychiatric Association, 200 1), such as the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale and
   the Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale.
25                                          EXAMPLES
           Substituted flavone derivatives were prepared (See Figure 1) in purity of > 95%,
   by 'H NMR, HPLC (HPLC, 254 nm). The synthetic route is illustrated in the schemes
   below. Starting materials were typically purchased from commercial sources.
                                                 41

   Procedure for preparation 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diy        diacetate
                                                              0
                         OO                    O
            OH   Z   0                                     0        0      N
                                     K2C0 3, DCM         0
                     O               r.., ovemight                  0
                     i                                          R,
           Compound 1 (100 mg, 0.4 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2 CO3 (342 mg,
   2.5 mmol) and acetic anhydride (0.1 mL, 0.8 mmol) in DCM. After stirring at r.t.
 5 overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a white solid (71 mg, yield: 53.3%). 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D):6ppm 8.06 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.93-7.95 (m, 2H), 7.58-7.61(m,
   3H), 7.38 (d,J = 8.4 Hz, IH), 6.93 (s, IH), 2.48(s, 3H), 2.37(s, 3H). Purity: 99.8%(254
   in); MS: 339.0 [M+1]*
10
   Preparation of 4-oxo-2-phenyi-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(2,2-dimethylpropanoate) compound
          itsA
                 OH
                     0
            HO                                 CN                       OCI
               Ho                                           0
                                     K2CO, DCM
                      0              r.t., ovemight                     0
                               1                                   Rts
           Compound 1 (150 mg, 0.6 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2 CO3 (341 mg,
15 2.48 mmol) and pivaloyl chloride (0.2 mL, 1.2 mmol) in DCM. After stirring at r.t.
   overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a red solid (52 mg, yield: 20.9%). 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCI3):6ppm 8.12 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, IH), 7.80-7.82 (m, 2H), 7.50-7.55(m,
   3H), 7.20 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, IH), 6.76 (s, IH), 1.45(s, 9H), 1.35(s, 9H). Purity: 99.6% (254
20  n); MS: 445.1 [M+1]*
                                                    42

   Preparation of 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl    bis(3-methylbutanoate) compound R12
                           FIOZ                                       O
            HO 1       01                           CIO
                                         K2COs, DCM0
                       O                 r.t., ovemight
                                 11
            Compound 1 (150 mg, 0.6 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2CO3 (341 mg,
   2.48 mmol) and isovaleryl chloride (0.2 mL, 1.2 mmol) in DCM. After stirring at r.t.
 5 overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a white solid (57 mg, yield: 23.1%). 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCI3):6ppm 8.12 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, IH), 7.80-7.82 (in, 2H), 7.48-7.55(m,
   3H), 7.23-7.26 (in, IH), 6.78 (s, IH), 2.59 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 2.49 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H),
   2.24-2.32(m, 2H), 1.09-1.11(m, 12H). Purity: 99.6% (254 nm); MS: 445.0 [M+1]
10
   Preparation of 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(dimethylcarbamate) compound R,
                   OH         /                    o
            HO           O                      N4CI           N    o)
                             I I              /    ~           N    0     N 0O
                                          K2CO, DCM          -     O &10I
                        0                 r.t, ovemight          0
                                                                       Ry    0
            Compound 1 (200 mg, 0.8 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2 C0 3 (458 mg,
   3.3 mmol) and dimethylcarbamoyl chloride (0.3 mL, 1.7 mmol) in DCM. After stirring at
15 r.t. overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a white solid (53 mg, yield: 15.9%,
   Lot#: MC0777-38-1). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3):8ppm 8.07 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.82
   7.84 (m, 2H), 7.49-7.54(m, 3H), 7.32-7.34 (in, 1H), 6.79 (s, 1H), 3.24 (s, 3H), 3.15(s, 3H),
   3.1 I(s, 3H), 3.05(s, 3H). Purity: 98.2% (254 mn); MS: 397.0[M+1] 4
20
                                                     43

   Preparation of 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl dipropionate compound 14
                                                                     0
                 OH
                                        KCO,, DCM
                      0                 r.t., overnight                     0
                     1                                                  I4
          Compound 1 (200 mg, 0.8 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2CO3 (458 mg,
   3.3 mmol) and propionyl chloride (0.3 mL, 1.7 mmol) in DCM. After stiring at r.t.
 5 overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a yellow solid (51 mg, yield: 17.4%).
   'H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13):Sppm 8.13 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.79-7.81 (in, 2H), 7.51
   7.55(m, 3H), 7.25-7.27 (in, 1H), 6.79 (s, 1H), 2.75 (q, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.65(q, J = 7.6 Hz,
   2H), 1.38(t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H), 1.31(t, J= 7.6 Hz, 3H). Purity: 95.5% (254 nm); MS: 367.0
10 [M+1]*
   Preparation of diethyl (4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl) dicarbonate compound R3
                                                                      0
                                                                             0
           HO,     H                          0                0    OkO
                                         CI       O
                                          K2CO,. DCM
                       o                 r.t., ovemight                       0
                                                                          RS
          Compound 1 (200 mg, 0.8 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2 CO 3 (458 mg,
15 3.3 mmol) and ethyl chloroformate (0.3 mL, 1.7 mmol) in DCM. After stirring at r.t.
   overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a white solid (50 mg, yield: 15.9%). 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCI3):Sppm 8.14 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.85-7.87 (in, 2H), 7.50-7.56(m,
   3H), 7.35-7.38 (in, 1H), 6.83 (s, 1H), 4.35-4.43 (m, 4H), 1.41-1.44(m, 6H). Purity:
20 96.0%(254 nm); MS: 399.0 [M+1]*
                                                    44

   Preparation of 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4R-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(ethylcarbamate) compound R6
                                                                     0
                    OH        /,H1w
             HO          0    N~|            N                N      O       O
                          0                -0NCO                 0
                                        K2C03, DCM
                         0              r.t., overnight
             Compound 1 (200 mg, 0.8 mmol) was added to a suspension of K2 CO3 (458 mg,
   3.3 mmol) and ethyl isocyanate (0.3 mL, 1.7 mmol) in DCM. After stirring at r.t.
 5 overnight, the mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The residue
   was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a white solid (70 mg, yield: 22.5%). 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, CDCI 3):6ppm 8.05 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, IH), 7.84-7.86 (m, 2H), 7.47-7.53(m,
   3H), 7.28-7.30 (m, IH), 6.79 (s, IH), 5.45-5.46 (m, 1H), 5.22-5.23 (m, IH), 3.32-3.54 (m,
   4H), 1.23-1.30(m, 6H). Purity: 99.8% (254 nm); MS: 397.1 [M+1]+
10
   Preparation of 4-oxo-2-phenyi-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl diisonicotinate compound R
                                               OH           /
                                                     0
                                       HO                              N
                           0~                                       0
                                N    CI               O         0    0   O
      N       OH      80re
    N   A             eux
                    overnight                 DMAP, DCM
                                              r.t, ovemight
      11-1                      11-2                                       R11
           A solution of compound 11-1 (600 mg, 4.9 mmol) in SOC12 (20 mL) was refluxed
   overnight under Ar atmosphere. Then the resulting mixture was evaporated under reduced
15 pressure to remove the SOC 2 , the residue was used for the next step directly without
   further purification.
           Compound 1 (200 mg, 0.8 mmol) was added to a solution of DMAP (1.2 g, 4.8 mmol)
   and Compound 11-2 (690 mg, 4.9 mol) in DCM (5 mL), and the mixture was stirred at
   r.t. overnight. The mixture was filtered and evaporated under reduced pressure. The
20 residue was washed by ethyl ether to afford the product as a white solid (80 mg, yield:
   21.9%). The product was confirmed by HPLC, LCMS and            lH NMR. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCI3):Sppm 8.89 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 8.83 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 8.28 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 1H),
   7.99-8.00 (in, 2H), 7.91-7.92 (m, 2H), 7.67-7.69 (m, 2H), 7.46-7.48 (m, 2H), 7.36-7.40 (in,
   2H), 6.86(s, IH). Purity: 93.7%(254 nm); MS: 465.0 [M+I]
                                                     45

   Preparation of amino acid esters
            Figure 2 illustrates the preparation of certain amino acid derivatives. To a solution
   of 2 mmol of 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (1) in 10 ml of anhydrous pyridine was added 4 mmol
 5 of 2. After cooling in an ice bath, DCC (4 mmol) was added and stirring was continued for
   24 hours. Dichloromethane was added and the insoluble byproducts were filtered off. The
   filtrate was concentrated by rotary evaporation at below 35*C and was then evaporated
   twice from toluene to remove any residual pyridine. Purification by flash silica gel
   chormatography with hexane/EtOAc (65/35) provided 3 as a white foam or solid.
10          To a solution of 0.5 mmol 3 in 10 ml of TFF was added 10 ml of 4 N HCI in
   dioxane. After stirring overnight, 40 ml of ether was added and the solid was collected by
   vacuum filtration to provide 4 as the di or mono HCI salt.
   2a: R = N-Bocglycine
   2b: R = N-Boc-L-alanine
15 2c: R = N-Boc-L-valine
   2d: R = N-Boc-sarcosine
   2e: R = N-Boc-b-Alanine
   2f: R = N-Boc-N-methyl-b-Alanine
   3a: R = N-Bocglycine (25 % yield)
20 3b: R = N-Boc-L-alanine (60% yield)
   3c: R = N-Boc-L-valine (44% yield)
   3d: R = N-Boc-sarcosine (30% yield)
   3e: R = N-Boc-b-Alanine (80% yield)
   3f: R = N-Boc-N-methyl-b-Alanine (35% yield)
25 4a: R = Glycine (89 % yield)
   4b: R = L-Alanine (90% yield)
   4c: R = L-Valine (66% yield)
   4d: R = Sarcosine (92% yield)
   4e: R = b-Alanine (93% yield)
30 4f: R = N-methyl-b-Alanine (96% yield)
   Compound prepared by a same or similar method as provided above
   4-Oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl-bis(2-aminoacetate) dihydrochloride
                                                   46

            'HNMR(300MHz, D20) 67.95 (d, iH), 7.74 (d, 2H), 7.74 (m, 5H), 6.81 (s, IH),
   4.79 (s, 15H), 4.45 (d, 2H), 4.34 (d, 2H), 3.70 (s, 1H). LC 90%; MS: calculated: 368.34;
   found: 396.1 (M + 1). Elemental Analysis: calculated C: 49.69, found C: 49.62; MS:
   calculated H: 4.39, found H: 4.45, LC: calculated N 6.10, found: 6.10, calculated Cl: 15.44,
 5 found Cl: 15.36.
   (2S, 2'S)4-Oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl-bis(2-arninopropanoate) dihydrochloride
             H NMR (300MHz, D20) 67.94 (d, IH), 7.71 (d, 2H), 7.46 (m, 4H), 6.78(s, 1H),
   4.77 (m, 2H), 1.83 (d, 3H), 1.76 (d, 3H), 1.45 (m, IH). LC: 0.13 alanine. MS: calculated:
10 396.36, found: 397.1 (M+1). Elemental Analysis: calculated C: 52.73, found C: 52.83;
   MS: calculated H: 4.85, found H: 4.79, LC: calculated N 5.86, found: 5.82, calculated Cl:
   14.82, found Cl: 14.90.
   4-Oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl-bis(3-aminopropanoate) dihydrochloride
15          1H NMR (300MHz, D20) 37.73 (d, IH), 7.71 (m, 2H), 7.50(m, 3H), 7.40 (dH),
   6.81 (s, 1H), 4.83 (m, H), 3.39 (m, 4H), 3.374 (d, 2H), 3.37 (m, 2H). LC: 100%. MS:
   calculated: 396.36, found: 397.1 (M+1). Elemental Analysis: calculated C: 52.73, found
   C: 52.55; MS: calculated H: 4.85, found H: 4.80, LC: calculated N 5.86, found: 5.92,
   calculated Cl: 14.82, found Cl: 14.99.
20
   (2S, 2'S)4-Oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chmmene-7,8-diyl-bis(2-amino-3-methylbutanoate)
   Dihydrochloride.
             H NMR (300MHz, D2O) 67.88 (d, IH), 7.58 (m, 3H), 7.41 (m, 3H), 6.68 (s, IH),
   4.77 (s, H), 4.49 (d, 1H), 4.44 (d, IH), 2.65 (m, 2H), 1.19 (m, 9H), 1.06 (m, 4H). LC: 0.15
25 eq. valine. MS: calculated: 452.5, found: 453.2 (M+1). Elemental Analysis: calculated C:
   55.07, found C: 54.87; MS: calculated H: 5.95, found H: 45.82, LC: calculated N 5.14,
   found: 5.22, calculated Cl: 13.00, found Cl: 13.08.
   4-Oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl-bis(3-methylaminopropanoate) dihydrochloride
30          'H NMR (300MHz, D20) 67.94 (d, iH), 7.70 (d, 2H), 7.47(m, 3H), 7.39 (d, 1H),
   6.80 (s, IH), 4.83 (m, H), 3.43 (m, 4H), 3.28 (d, 2H), 3.21 (m, 2H).2.77(s, 3H), 2.72 (s,
   3H). LC: 100%. MS: calculated: 424.45, found: 425.2 (Parent+1). Elemental Analysis:
   calculated C: 52.85, found C: 53.09; MS: calculated H: 5.44, found H: 5.18, LC:
   calculated N 5.36, found: 5.30, calculated Cl: 14.92, found Cl: 14.96.
                                                  47

   4-Oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl-bis(2-(methylamino)acetate) Dihydrochloride
            H NMR (300MHz, D20) 67.94 (d, 1H), 7.75 (d, 2H), 7.48(m, 5H), 6.80 (s, IH),
   4.80 (m, H), 4.55 (s, 2H), 4.53 (d, 2H), 2.93 (d, 7H). LC: 90%. MS: calculated: 396.36,
 5 found: fragmented. NMR: Elemental Analysis: calculated C: 53.74, found C: 53.58;
   calculated H: 4.72, found H: 4.69, LC: calculated N 5.97, found: 5.90, calculated Cl: 15.11,
   found Cl: 15.02.
   4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(piperazine-1-carboxylate) and 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H
10 chromene-7,8-diyl bis(4-methylpipernine-1-carboxylate)
                0
      HO                                      0 0     r                R   0
                 0                               o
                                                 0
                                           22
               A       N                2
           Compound A - 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(4-methylpiperazine-.1
   carboxylate). To a solution of 1-methylpiperazine (3.9 g, 39.2 mmol) in dry THF (100 mL)
   was added triphosgene (3.9 g, 13.1 mmol) at -78 *C.The mixture was stirred at -78 "C for
15 1 h, then wanted to 0 *C. The solvent was removed under vacurnmn, then acetone (100
   mL), water (10 mL) and pyridine (10 mL) were added to the residue. The mixture was
   cooled to 0 "C again and compound 1 (1.0 g, 3.9 mmol) was added. The reaction mixture
   was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was concentrated and water (100
   mL) was added, then extracted with EtOAc (100 mL x 3). The combined organic layer
20 was washed with brine, dried over Na 2SO 4, concentrated, and the residue was purified by
   column chromatography on silica gel fluentt: petroleum ether/ethyl acetate = 2/1) to give
   compound A (0,40 g, yield 20.2 %) as a light yellow solid. 'H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl3 ):
   (ppm) 8.08 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, IH), 7.84 (d, J = 6.3 Hz, 2H), 7.53-7.49 (m, 3H), 7.30 (d, J =
   9.0 Hz, 1H), 6.79 (s, lIH), 3.85-3.58 (m, 8H), 2.53-2.45 (m, 8H), 2.39 (s, 3H), 2.36 (s,
25 3H); >98% at 214 nm, MS (ESI) rmz      = 507.2 [M+H]*.
                                                 48

            Compound 2. Procedure was the same as above to give 0.81 g as a white solid
   (30.4 % yield). 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCI3 ): (ppm) 8.10 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, IH), 7.81 (d, J =
   8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.52-7.45 (m, 3H), 7.3 l(d, J= 9.0 Hz, IH), 6.79 (s, iH), 3.78-3.45 (m, 16H),
   1.51 (s, 9H), 1.49 (s, 9H).
 5          Compound B - 4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(piperazine- 1
   carboxylate) dihydrochloride. To a solution of compound 2 (0.5 g, 0.74 mmol) in dioxane
   (5 mL) was added 2 M HCI/dioxane (5 mL). The mixture was stirred at room temperature
   for 2 h. The precipitate was collected by filtration and then washed with MeOH and Et20
   to give compound B (270.0 mg, yield 48.5%, 2 eq. HCl salt) as a white solid. 'H NMR
10 (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): (ppm) 9.78-9.45 (br, 41), 7.99-7.95 (in, 3H), 7.67-7-63 (m, 3H),
   7.51 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (s, IH),4.05-3.70 (in, 8H), 3.27-3.14 (m, 8H); >98% at 214
   nm, MS (ESI) m/z = 479.1 [M+H]'.
   Metabolism Studies
15          Metabolism studies indicate that the catechol group is conjugated by
   glucuronidation, sulfation and methylation in liver, which leads to the poor oral
   bioavailability upon oral administration. A PK study in C57BL6 mice shows that 7,8-DHF
   exhibits approximately 5% oral bioavailability. Most of 7,8-DHF is conjugated and
   metabolized within 30 min. Derivatives with various moieties on the catechol group in
20 7,8-DHF were synthesized. These derivatives were monitored for intestine microsomal
   stability, liver microsomal stability and plasma stability. In addition, compounds with
   favorable chemical stability and Caco-2 permeability were examined.
            Notably, R7 is stable in both pH 1.2 and 7.4 buffer, indicating that this derivative
   has desirable chemical stability. R7 and R13 were chosen to analyze their in vivo PK
25 profiles. The concentration of 7,8-DHF's in brain was examined at different time points
   after oral administrated 72.5 mg/kg, which is the molecular equivalent of 50 mg/kg of 7,8
   DHF. In plasma, 7,8-DHF peaked at around 100 min for R13, whereas administration of
   the parent compound 7,8-DHF, occurred at 10 min. The oral bioavailability of R13 was
   around 10%. Prodrug R13 significantly elongated 7,8-DHF brain availability and the
30 maximal concentrations took place at 4 h, while parent 7,8-DHF was not detectable after 4
   h (Figure 4).
            Carbmate R7 was tested. R7 displays approximately 35% oral bioavailability. 7,8
   DHF plasma concentrations from R7 (78 mg/kg about 50 mg/kg parent compound dosage)
   are higher than parent compound, 7,8-DHF (50 mg/kg P.O.) upon oral administration. 7,8
                                                  49

   DHF was detectable in the plasma at 8 h, indicating the prodrug can sustainably release
   7,8-DHF in the circulation system. Accordingly, it half-life t %2is about 195 min with
   Tmax = 60 min. The Cmax plasma [7,8-DHF] for parent (7,8-DHF) is 70 ng/ml, whereas
   R7 is 262 ng/ml. The ratio of R7/parent compound of AUCia is 46949/6500= 7.2.
 5         The TrkB signaling in mouse brains was monitored from the in vivo PK study.
   Immunoblotting analysis demonstrates that TrkB and its downstream p-Akt signalings
   were potently activated upon oral administration of R7, tightly correlating with 7,8-DHF
   concentrations in plasma. The pharnacodynamic (PD) study fits well with the in vivo PK
   data, underscoring that the released 7,8-DHF from R7 triggers the long-lasting TrkB
10 signalings in mouse brain.
                                               50

                                              CLAIMS
What we claim:
1.      A compound having Formula I:
                                            0                R9
                                       R1&U    O       R8         z
                                  R2'    O           XI         R
                                        OR3               R5 R
                                               R4    0
                                              Formula I
        or salts thereof wherein
        X is 0, S, or NH;
        U and Y are each 0, S, NH, Nalkyl, or CH 2 ;
        Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
        R' is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R' is optionally substituted with one or more,
the same or different, R"5 ;
        R2 is alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy,
carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (aLkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl,
arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R 2 is optionally substituted with
one or more, the same or different, R"5 ;
        R3 , R4, R5 , R6 , R7 , R', and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R', R 4, R', R6, R , R,    and R9 are optionally
substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"5 ;
        R'5 is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R' 5 is optionally
substituted with one or more, the same or different, R6 ; and
                                                  51

        R'" is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluoromethyl, amino,
formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, NN
dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, N,N-dimethylsulfamoyl, N,N
diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
2.      The compound of Claim 1, wherein U and Y are NH or Nalkyl;
3.      The compound of Claim I, wherein U and Y are oxygen.
4.      The compound of Claim 1, wherein R' and R2 are alkyl.
5.      The compound of Claim 1, selected from:
        4-oxo-2-phenyl.4H-chromene-7,8-diyl dipropionate;
        4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(2,2-dimethylpropanoate);
        diethyl (4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl) dicarbonate;
        4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(ethylcarbamate);
        4-oxo-2-phenyl-4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(dimethylcarbamate); and
        4-oxo-2-phenyl.4H-chromene-7,8-diyl bis(3-methylbutanoate) or salts thereof.
6.      A compound having Formula II:
                                        0               R9
                                     RA           Ra         z
                                R2   0          X I        R R
                                    OR3     /        R5 R
                                           R4  0
                                          Formula 11
        or salts thereof wherein
        X is 0, S, or NH;
        Z is hydrogen, amino, diaminoalkyl, or heterocyclyl such as pyrrolidinyl optionally
substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
                                              52

        R' and R2 are a heterocyclyl optionally substituted with one or more, the same or
different, R";
        R3 , R4 , Ri, R6, R7, R, and R9 are each individually and independently hydrogen,
alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino, mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl,
alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl)2amino, alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl,
carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl, wherein R', R', R', R , R', R', and R9 are optionally
substituted with one or more, the same or different, R";
        R" is independently selected alkyl, halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, amino,
mercapto, formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, alkoxy, alkylthio, alkylamino, (alkyl) 2amino,
alkylsulfinyl, alkylsulfonyl, arylsulfonyl, carbocyclyl, or aryl, wherein R" is optionally
substituted with one or more, the same or different, R"6 ; and
        R"6 is halogen, nitro, cyano, hydroxy, trifluoromethoxy, trifluommethyl, amino,
formyl, carboxy, carbamoyl, mercapto, sulfamoyl, methyl, ethyl, methoxy, ethoxy, acetyl,
acetoxy, methylamino, ethylamino, dimethylamino, diethylamino, N-methyl-N
ethylamino, acetylamino, N-methylcarbamoyl, N-ethylcarbamoyl, N,N
dimethylcarbamoyl, N,N-diethylcarbamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylcarbamoyl, methylthio,
ethylthio, methylsulfinyl, ethylsulfinyl, mesyl, ethylsulfonyl, methoxycarbonyl,
ethoxycarbonyl, N-methylsulfamoyl, N-ethylsulfamoyl, NN-dimethylsulfamoyl, NN
diethylsulfamoyl, N-methyl-N-ethylsulfamoyl, carbocyclyl, aryl, or heterocyclyl.
7.      The compound of Claim 6, wherein R' and R2 are pyridinyl.
8.      The compound of Claim 6 is 4-oxo-2-phenyl4H-chromene-7,8-diyl diisonicotinate.
9.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of as in Claims 1-8 and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
10.     The composition of Claim 9, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is in the
form of a tablet, capsule, pill, or solution for injection.
11.     A method of preventing or treating a BDNF and TrkB related disease or condition
comprising the administering an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition of
Claims 9 or 10, to a subject in need thereof.
                                                53

12.      The method of Claim II wherein the subject is diagnosed with, exhibiting
symptoms of, or at risk of the disease or condition.
13.      The method of Claim I1, wherein the disease or condition is depression,
schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, anxiety,
amytrophic later sclerosis, Autism spectrum disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder,
Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, Rett syndrome, epilepsy, Parkinson's disease,
dementia, diabetic neuropathy, peripheral neuropathy, obesity, or stroke.
14.      The method of Claim I 1, wherein the disease is depression and the pharmaceutical
composition is administered in combination with an anti-depressant.
15.      The method of Claim 14, wherein the anti-depressant is a selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitor such as citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine,
sertraline, or vilazodone, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor such as
desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, milnacipran, venlafaxine, a noradrenergic and specific
serotonergic antidepressant such as mianserin and mirtazapine, a norepinephrine reuptake
inhibitor such as atomoxetine, mazindol, reboxetine, viloxazine, a norepinephrine
dopamine reuptake inhibitor such as bupropion, a selective serotonin reuptake enhancer
such as tianeptine and amineptine, a norepinephrine-dopamine disinhibitor such as
agomelatine, a tricyclic antidepressant such as amitriptyline, clomipramine, doxepin,
imipramine, trimipramine, desipramine, nortriptyline, protriptyline, a monoamine oxidase
inhibitor such as isocarboxazid, moclobemide, phenelzine, selegiline, tranylcypromine.
16.      The use of a compound in any of Claims 1-8, in the production of a medicament
for the treatment or prevention of a BDNF and TrkB related disease or condition.
                                              54

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
