                                      ABSTRACT
A system includes, for a selection of objects on a displayed page of the system, each
object having pre-defined customizable attributes and non-customizable attributes, a
sorter to sort the customizable attributes of the selected objects. The system also
includes a dialog builder to build a customization dialog specific to the selection based
on the sorted pre-defined customizable attributes, a displayer to display the dialog and
an updater to receive input according to the dialog and to update the customizable
attributes according to the input.

                           TITLE OF THE INVENTION
             A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DIALOG CUSTOMIZATION
                           FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to component based application builders generally and to
dialog customization in particular.
              CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]     This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/781,866 filed March 14, 2013 which is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.
                      BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common general
knowledge in the field.
[0004]     There are many commercially available on and off-line component based application
builders such as website building systems, web page construction systems, desktop application
building system and mobile application building systems that can be used to create and edit
websites and other on-line or off-line applications. The present application refers to website
building systems for simplicity but its features may also be applied to the above mentioned
component based application builders.
[0005]     Website building systems are based on the notion of pages which include objects
which may be components or non-component objects. Components may be atomic or container
components. Container components may be single-page containers or multi-page containers
(which include multiple mini-pages separate from each other). Multi-page containers may
display a single mini-page at a time (single page display), or may display multiple or all of the

mini-pages (gallery/carousel display) a multi-page container may have a fixed display mode (e.g.
gallery display only), or may allow switching between multiple display modes. Non-component
objects may include relationship objects, views and templates as further described below.
[0006]      Components may have content, e.g. text for text component, an image for image
component etc. They also have additional attributes, including in particular display attributes
(e.g. color, frames) and layout attributes (size and position).
[0007]      Components may be content-less such as a star-shape which does not have any
internal content (through it has color, size, position and some other attributes) or may have
internal content, such as a text paragraph component, whose internal content includes the
displayed text, as well as font, formatting and layout information. This content may, of course,
vary from one instance of the text paragraph component to another.
[0008]      Website building systems may also support inheritance relationships between objects
such that when an object A inherits from an entity B (called parent), the sub-elements of A are
copied from the sub-entities of B etc.
[0009]       Website building systems can also be extended using third party applications and
components embedded in them. Such third party applications may be included in the website
building system design environment or may be purchased (or otherwise acquired) separately
through a number of distribution mechanisms, such as from an application store (AppStore)
integrated into the website building system, or from a separate, web-based or standalone
application repository (or AppStore) operated by the website building systems (WBS) vendor or
by another entity. Third party applications may also be obtained directly from the third party
application vendor (through an AppStore or not) - which would provide an actual installation
module, or just an activation or access code.
                                                 2

[0010]     Therefore a typical site created by a website building system may have pages
consisting of instances of regular components and third party application components. Such
pages may also include linking components, which display data items from internal or external
data sources formatted using page section templates (known as views) as further described
below.
[0011]     Dialog interfaces are an important feature of any on-line application builder (such as
an online website building application). They allow the pertinent system to present information
or request input to or from the designer and/or end user.
                                               3

                     SUMMARY OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
[0012]      There is provided, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present
invention, a system including, for a selection of displayed objects of the system, where at least
one of the selected objects has pre-defined customizable attributes and non-customizable
attributes, a sorter to sort the customizable attributes of the selected objects; and a dialog builder
to build a customization dialog specific to the selection based on the sorted pre-defined
customizable attributes.
[0013]       Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
system also includes a displayer to display the dialog and an updater to receive input according
to the dialog and to update the customizable attributes according to the input.
[0014]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, each at
least one selected object has at least one associated customization record listing the pre-defined
customizable attributes.
[0015]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
objects are at least one of atomic component, container component, linking component, third
party component, template, view and a relationship object representing a relationship between at
least two objects.
[0016]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
selection is at least one of a pre-defined selection, user selected and an expansion of a selection.
[0017]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
expansion is at least one of a selection expanded to include contained objects, a selection
expanded to include related objects and a selection expanded to include inherited objects.
[0018]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
selection is at least one of a direct selection of at least one object, a selection according to an
                                                  4

intersection or inclusion with a page area selected by the user and a selection according to a user
defined query.
[0019]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
system supports the display of multiple instances of objects on a single page where the selection
includes a subset of the multiple displayed object instances.
[0020]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorter merges multiple configurable attribute entries according to a common property of the
entries.
[0021]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorter sorts attributes according to priority.
[0022]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorter sorts attributes according to hierarchical ID structure.
[0023]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorter arranges attributes according to hints provided in the objects to be affected.
[0024]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorter sorts attributes according to priority based on the at least one associated customized
record.
[0025]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorter sorts according to a pre-defined condition.
[0026]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention,
conflicting associated customized records are united based on at least one of priority, common
values and related object properties.
[0027]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the
dialog is at least one of linear, hierarchical and two-dimensional.
                                                  5

[0028]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
dialog is laid out according to at least one of customization priority parameters, customization
hierarchy parameters, location of the configured objects component on the page, and dialog
layout hints provided in the objects to be affected.
[0029]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updater updates using a formula pre-defined for the customizable attributes.
[0030]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updater updates continuously as the attributes are modified to provide a WYSIWYG (what you
see is what you get) effect.
[0031]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention the
updater updates gradually as the attributes are modified to provide an animation between two
versions of the object having different the customizable attribute values.
[0032]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updater updates a view within at least one of a linking component, a specific view instance
selected by a user and a view template definition.
[0033]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
system is one of the following: a website building system, a web page construction system, an
on-line application building tool, an off-line application building tool, and a mobile application
building tool.
[0034]      There is provided, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present
invention, a method including for a selection of displayed objects, where at least one of the
selected objects has pre-defined customizable attributes and non-customizable attributes, sorting
the customizable attributes of the selected objects and building a customization dialog specific to
the selection based on the sorted pre-defined customizable attributes. for a selection of displayed
                                                6

objects, wherein at least one of said selected objects has pre-defined customizable attributes and
non-customizable attributes, sorting said customizable attributes of said selected objects
[0035]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
method includes displaying the dialog and receiving input according to the dialog and updating
the customizable attributes according to the input.
[0036]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the at
least one selected object has at least one associated customization record listing said pre-defined
customizable attributes.
[0037]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
objects are at least one of atomic component, container component, third party component,
template, view and a relationship object representing a relationship between at least two objects.
[0038]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
selection is at least one of a pre-defined selection, user selected and an expansion of a selection.
[0039]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
expansion is at least one of a selection expanded to include contained objects, a selection
expanded to include related objects and a selection expanded to include inherited objects.
[0040]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
selection is at least one of a direct selection of at least one object, a selection according to an
intersection or inclusion with a page area selected by the user and a selection according to a the
user defined query.
[0041]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention,
method comprises displaying multiple instances of objects on a single page and wherein the
selection comprises a subset of the multiple displayed object instances.
                                                  7

[0042]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorting includes merging multiple configurable attribute entries according to a common property
of the entries.
[0043]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorting is according to priority.
[0044]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorting is according to hierarchical ID structure.
[0045]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorting is according to hints provided in the objects to be affected.
[0046]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorting is according to priority based on the at least one associated customized record.
[0047]      Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
sorting is according to a pre-defined condition.
[0048]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
method includes uniting conflicting at least one associated customized records based on at least
one of priority, common values and related object properties.
[0049]      Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
dialog is at least one of linear, hierarchical and two-dimensional.
[0050]      Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
method includes laying out the dialog according to at least one of customization priority
parameters, customization hierarchy parameters, location of the configured objects on the page
and dialog layout hints provided in the objects to be affected.
[0051]      Still further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updating uses a formula pre-defined for the customizable attributes.
                                                  8

[0052]     Additionally, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updating is continuous as the attributes are modified to provide a WYSIWYG (what you see is
what you get) effect.
[0053]     Moreover, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updating is gradual as the attributes are modified to provide an animation between two versions
of the components having different the customizable attribute values.
[0054]     Further, in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
updating comprises revising a view within at least one of a linking component, a specific view
instance selected by a user and a view template definition.
[0055]     According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for a
website building system, the method comprising:
                for said website building system operating a visual page editor displaying
             editable objects of a website page with pre-defined customizable attributes and
             non-customizable attributes;
                modifying a component customization user interface dialog of said visual page
             editor according to user selected, currently displayed objects of said website;
                receiving input from a user for attributes of said user selected objects via said
             modified component customization user interface dialog; and
                updating at least one of said user selected objects according to said input.
[0056]     According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a system for a
website building system, the system comprising:
                for said website building system operating a visual page editor displaying
             editable objects of a website page with pre-defined customizable attributes and
             non-customizable attributes;
                                               9

                 a dialog builder to modify a customization user interface dialog of said visual
             page editor according to user selected, currently displayed objects of said
             website, said modified customization user interface dialog to receive input from a
             user for attributes of said user selected objects;
                 an updater to update at least one of said user selected objects according to said
             input; and
                 a memory and a processor to activate said dialog builder and said
             updater.
[0057]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including,
but not limited to".
[0058]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0059]     The subject matter regarded as the invention is particularly pointed out and distinctly
claimed in the concluding portion of the specification. The invention, however, both as to
organization and method of operation, together with objects, features, and advantages thereof,
may best be understood by reference to the following detailed description when read with the
accompanying drawings in which:
[0060]     Fig. 1 is a screenshot of a dialog for content entry for a restaurant website;
[0061]     Fig. 2 is a screenshot of a user interface which includes a customization dialog for a
menu and its settings panel for a restaurant website;
                                                10

[0062]     Fig. 3 is a screenshot of a customization dialog to change the inter-item spacing for all
displayed items;
[0063]     Fig. 4 is a schematic illustration of a website page containing 8 different text
components;
[0064]     Fig. 5 is a schematic illustration of a system for automating the customization of a
website dialog, constructed and operative in accordance with the present invention;
[0065]     Fig. 6 is a schematic illustration of the implementation of the system of Fig. 5,
constructed and operative in accordance with the present invention;
[0066]     Fig. 7 is a schematic illustration of a customized dialog for a particular page view,
constructed and operative in accordance with the present invention;
[0067]     Fig. 8 is a schematic illustration of component layout based dialog creation,
constructed and operative in accordance with the present invention; and
[0068]     Fig 9 is a screenshot of a user interface which shows an alternate layout display
(including alternate customization dialog) for a menu of a restaurant website.
[0069]     It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration, elements shown in
the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the
elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further, where considered
appropriate, reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or
analogous elements.
                                               11

           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
[0070]      In the following detailed description, numerous specific details are set forth in order to
provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will be understood by those
skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In
other instances, well-known methods, procedures, and components have not been described in
detail so as not to obscure the present invention.
[0071]      Website building systems may typically provide to a designer, the capability to
customize website objects, including particular views, items and item/view combinations. In the
discussion below we shall refer to customization of components (which is the most common
case). However, the description of the invention below is fully applicable to the customization of
non-component objects, including views and templates in particular. As discussed herein above,
many website components have numerous configurable attributes, including those related to the
component itself (e.g. background color, font of displayed text), its display format (e.g. a
particular date format), its display parameters (such as number of rows and columns) as well as
those related to the specific instance (e.g., position and size). These configurable attributes may
be used to configure the pertinent instance through the regular website building system user
interface or via another means such as an API or a web service. The website building system
may also support relationship objects which may also be customized. Such relationship objects
represent relationships between website building system components (or other objects).
Examples include dynamic layout anchors (e.g. those which define the distance between
components) and operational relationships (e.g. those which define how the content change of
one component affects another component) etc.
[0072]      Components may also have non customizable or conditionally customizable
parameters and attributes. For example a given item may be customized, but only when
                                                12

displayed in a given view. These customization options may be open to the designer (or to an end
user) according to pre-determined specific modification or design privileges only.
[0073]     For third party applications, the third party application vendor may define the
particular configurable attributes which can be used to configure a third party application
instance. These can be low-level such as a displayed frame type or high level such as a maximal
allowed purchase for an e-commerce third party application.
[0074]     The created web site may also include linking components, which display data items
from an external data sources formatted using page section templates (known as views). Linking
components are further discussed in US Patent Application No. 14/207,761 entitled "DEVICE,
SYSTEM, AND METHOD OF WEBSITE BUILDING BY UTILIZING DATA LISTS", filed
March 13, 2014 and assigned to the common assignee of the present invention. The linking
component may link to an internal or external database, containing one or more collections
consisting of data items. When linking components are displayed, the database is accessed to
generate the current list of data items to be displayed. It will be appreciated that views may be
associated with each data item, and that the data items may be displayed - either one at a time in
a given area (known as expand/zoom mode display) or may be displayed as multiple items
together (known as list or gallery mode display). Different data items may be displayed using
different views.
[0075]     It will be further appreciated that the page construction process may also create
additional (non-component) objects also with configurable attributes. For example, two
components may be linked with a dynamic layout anchor and the anchor length (i.e. the spacing
between the components) may be a configurable attribute.
[0076]     Applicants   have   realized   that for such configurable       components,   a single
customization may potentially affect multiple components, for example the same color
                                               13

adaptation may be applied to multiple components within the same display in order to remain
hannonious. Another example is the distance between the right edge of the view and two
components within the same view which may be adjusted but must remain the same for both
components, or may need to retain a given ratio.
[0077]      Customization may affect attributes of components of specific items or views
involved. Customization options may include: should we display a given component (yes/no),
fixed content (e.g. title text), display attributes (e.g. font, size and color), screen distances (the
distance between the dish name and its description for the restaurant example above); counts
(e.g. the number of columns in a multi-column display) and generic parameters which are handed
over to the component handling the display.
[0078]      Applicants have also realized that current customer dialogs or interfaces may require
the designer to plough though lists of individual components, all with multiple attributes (some
configurable and some not) in order to make an update or change to a specific component. For a
designer to update the background color of 8 different components of the same page, the
designer would have to update the background color attribute for each component individually.
This process may be laborious and time consuming. It will be appreciated as discussed here in
above, that even though not all attributes are editable, the update dialog presented to the designer
may not differentiate between the two types of attributes and both may be presented to the
designer.
[0079]      Applicants have further realized that the creation of a customized dialog, tailored to
the pertinent components that may require the above mentioned update may enable the bulk
update of certain attributes. Applicants have also realized that a customized dialog may present
to a junior designer (who uses the pertinent website building system to build his web site), a list
of customizable attributes only for the component in question which may have been pre
                                                 14

determined by a senior designer. Applicants have further realized that a particular view (or
presentation) of components may automatically be able to determine the specific attribute and
values which may be adjusted and be able to rank the importance of the customization. Some
customizations may be more important than others and should be easier to access.
[0080]      It will be appreciated, in accordance to an embodiment of the present invention, that
the initial construction of templates, views and possibly some pages (from herein known as
edited pages) as well as any potential customizations may be performed by the manufacturers of
the pertinent website building system. A senior designer may then use the pertinent website
building system to set up and create customization records (as described in more detail herein
below) The finished results may be used by a more junior designer 5 who may use the prepared
templates etc. to create his own website. It will be appreciated that the senior designer may also
determine at design time which attributes may be potentially configurable by the junior designer
and which may be exposed and available to him. It will also be appreciated that there may be
cases when both the senior and junior designers are either the same person (or company).
[0081]      It will be appreciated that junior designer 5 may build his own site by selecting which
layout to use (from those available) from the website building system, customizing it and then
entering specific data through an interface provided by the system as illustrated in Fig. 1 to
which reference is now made or by or connecting to a data source. The layout selection
determines which set of views (partial page templates) to use as illustrated in Fig. 2 to which
reference is now made. Fig. 2 illustrates the stage of website design for a restaurant website for
designer 5 in his working environment and shows a customization area, a layout selection area
and the different views that may be presented. Designer 5 may then adapt the web site according
to his needs. Therefore designer 5 may chose a portion of the layout to customize either by view,
by object or by region etc. The effect of alternative layout selection is further illustrated in Fig. 9
                                                15

to which reference is now made. Fig. 9 illustrates a case in which designer 5 has selected a
gallery-style pictorial layout [B], instead of the previous list-style layout [A] while still using the
same underlying data. As can be seen, the data display area [D] has changed its format, and the
customization set [C] also switches to the customization appropriate to this alternate layout.
[0082]       It will be appreciated that the website building system may display multiple instances
of some of the views in the same area of a linking component (such as the multiple instances of
the single dish view template). As shown in Fig. 3, to which reference is now made, the
customization may affect all displayed copies of the same view, so that designer 5 may (for
example) change the inter-item spacing for all displayed items (marked B) with a single change
(marked A) - changing the "item spacing" customization from a value of 15 (as in Fig. 2) to the
current value of 123 (as in Fig. 3). This change may also affect all instances of the "dish" view
within the linking component - including those that are not currently visible (due to scrolling).
[0083]      As discussed hereinabove, a senior designer (before the website building stage) may
create customization records which may be associated with each component. Each customization
record may specify how a single attribute of a single component may be configured through an
automatically generated configuration dialog (as described in more detail herein below).
Customization records may designate the attributes which are customizable for the component in
question as well as extra record fields such as a customization ID, customization prompt text
(e.g. "Select background color") and any additional information such as which component
attributes are customizable and which are not.
[0084]      The customization record may also include information such as a specific
implementation formula which may specify how the customization value is applied, allowing for
cases in which a customization value is applied to an attribute using not just pure assignment
(e.g. "assign to attribute X a value which is 80% of the entered value"). Such formulae may also
                                                 16

reference the existing attribute value, as well as the values of other attributes of the component.
The customization record may also specify under what conditions an attribute is customizable or
not.
[0085]      It will be appreciated that a customization record may (and typically will) also include
a default value. This value may be assigned to the affected attributes when the customization
dialog is presented for the first time, modifying their value. Once designer 5 has entered a new
value for the customization, this value is saved in the customization record (in addition to being
applied to the affected attributes) so it would be re-displayed and used whenever the
customization record is invoked again (as discussed in more detail herein below).
[0086]      It will be appreciated that a single component may have associated with it more than
one customization record, reflecting the possible customizations of different attributes of the
same component. The customization records for a single component may include multiple
records related to the same attribute - for example if an attribute is modified in different ways
using different implementation formulas. The different customization records for the same
component will typically have unique customization ID, but this is not always the case - for
example, a single customization ID may be used for two records which modify the right and left
spacing of the component.
[0087]      In an alternative embodiment, the senior designer may define customization records at
a higher entity level (such as the view level, a container level, the entire page level or the website
level). In such a case, the per-component customization records may contain just a customization
ID which references the higher-level customization records.
[0088]      It will be appreciated that the customization records created by a senior designer may
override any customization records supplied by the objects in the edited page in order to define
specific customizable attributes affecting specific potential customizable components. For
                                                17

example, an edited page may contain 8 different text components (C1 ...C8) as is illustrated in
Fig. 4 to which reference is now made, each of which has a potential configurable attribute
"background color" (cr) and type "color select". The senior designer may decide to expose all 8
potential configurable attributes as actual configurable attributes. In such a case, they may be
united under a single "select background color" configurable attribute (since they may all have
the same customization ID as described in more detail herein below). Therefore when the
component dialog is displayed, a single changed setting may be applied to all 8 components. The
senior designer may also decide to create two new actual configurable attributes "select
background color no. I" for components C1 to C3 and "select background color no. 2" for
components C4 to C6.         To do this, the senior designer may assign an alternate (and new)
customization ID of "bg-color-1" (with matching prompt text) to the "bg-color" of the
customization records of components C1 to C3. The same procedure may be performed for
components C4 to C6 with an alternate customization ID of "bg-color-2". Thus in the latter case,
only the two new alternate customization ID's may be presented as customizable attributes and
not the 8 underlying original customization IDs.
[0089]     It will also be appreciated that the senior designer may create new customization
records for particular components that may override any pre-defined or pre-supplied components
through inheritance or supplied by other objects in the edited page.
[0090]     It will further be appreciated that designer 5 may select a set of objects to customize in
which none of the selected objects has any customizable attribute. In such a case, there is no
defined customization, and no customization dialog would be generated. Furthermore, it should
be noted that some objects may have certain customizable attributes which are not included in
any customization records - for example, if the system limits their update to a separate (stand
alone and hard-wired) property dialog. In such a case, these attributes (which do not have
                                                18

customization records) will not be included in the automatically-created dialogs and are not part
of the discussion herein.
[0091]      Reference is now made to Fig. 5 which illustrates a system 100 for automating the
customization of a website dialog according to an embodiment of the present invention. System
100 comprises an input interpreter 10, a property collector 20, a sorter and prioritizer 30, a dialog
builder 40, a dialog displayer_50, a database coordinator 60, a database 70 and an attribute
applier 90. Database 70 may store all the pertinent website building system components together
with their pre-created customization records. Input interpreter 10 may process either a pre
defined sub-set or the designer 5 selection of components to be updated and property collector 20
may retrieve customization records for the pertinent components from database 70 via database
coordinator 60. Sorter and prioritizer 30 may sort and prioritize the attributes of the pertinent
customization records, dialog builder 40 may build a new customized dialog for designer 5 based
on his selection and dialog displayer 50 may present the newly built dialog to designer 5 for his
input. Attribute applier 90 may apply the designer 5 input and may update the components stored
in database 70 accordingly. The functionality of these elements will be described in more detail
herein below.
[0092]      It will be appreciated that above mentioned selection of components to be updated
may also be according to a user defined query.
[0093]      It will be appreciated that system 100 may be implemented as part of a website
building system 250 either on a client 200 or a server 300 as is illustrated in Fig. 6 to which
reference is now made.
[0094]      Reference is now made to Fig. 7 which illustrates an example customized dialog 400
for a view 300. The senior designer may create View I at the design stage containing 4
components, comp 1, comp 2, comp 3 and comp 4. The senior designer may also determine that
                                               19

compI may expose the customizable attributes hgt (height), wdt (width), color and font. Comp 2
may expose the customizable attributes hgt, wdt, text-size, font and frame type. Conp 3 and
comp 4 may also expose other configurable attributes. It will be appreciated that comp I and
comp 2 may typically have other attributes that are not exposed by the senior designer as
configurable such as the coordinates of their location. Each customizable attribute may have an
ID, a prompt text (e.g., for color it would be "select color") and a priority. These may all be pre
specified for each individual component and attribute. Alternatively, the senior designer may
specify such custoinizations details at a higher entity level customization record (e.g. the view or
page level as described hereinabove), with the per-component customization records only
referencing the higher entity level customization record.
[0095]      Junior designer 5 may wish to create a web page which uses View 1 (e.g. as a
template, as part of a page or by attaching it to a given set of items). Designer 5 may decide that
he needs to customize comp 1 and comp 2 only, so he selects comp 1 and comp 2 and presses a
customize button on the current dialog to enable some form of customization module activation.
It will be appreciated that the selection made by designer 5 may be a single selection, a multiple
selection, a selection area for intersecting components or multiple components in more than one
view. In an alternative embodiment, designer 5 may not have the option to select individual
components and system 100 may run using (for example) all the components in a given
displayed view or views, thus automatically creating the complete customization dialog,
obviating the need for junior designer selection and customization module activation. It will also
be appreciated that occasionally system 100 may cache a pre-created dialog so to save time in re
creating it if no relevant change has been made to the underlying information. In such a scenario,
the customization dialog may be integrated with the regular website building system interfaces
                                               20

and displayed automatically whenever designer 5 edits an area where customizations are
relevant.
[0096]      It will be appreciated that (with the exception of caching as noted above) a new
customization dialog is created every time the process of system 100 is run even if a previous run
has been made using the exact same components (as described in more detail herein below).
Input interpreter 10 may receive the selection of the selected components and may instruct
collector 20 to perform a recursive scan of conp I and comp 2 and all their related elements (be
it sub-components, contained components, or otherwise related). Collector 20 may collect from
database 70 (via coordinator 60) all the pre-defined customization records for comp 1 and comp 2
and all their related elements. As discussed herein above, each component may have more than
one customization record associated with it.
[0097]      Sorter and prioritizer 30 may sort the records by customization ID to eliminate
duplicates. For the example of Fig. 7, the attributes hgt, wdt and font will have the same ID.
Sorter and prioritizer 30 may then prioritize the attributes of the pertinent customization records.
The priority for each ID may be assigned based on the values given to it in the multiple
occurrences of it as a customizable attribute. It will be appreciated that priorities may be set by
senior designer or system designated. It will further be noted that the sorter and prioritizer 30
may combine priority values from multiple records using a combination metric (such as a
maximum or average value), and may also take into account prioritization hints provided in the
objects to be affected.
[0098]     Next dialog builder 40 may build common dialog 400 with a united list of
customizations for comp 1 and comp 2 i.e. hgt, wdt, color, font, text-size and frame type,
displaying the highest priority customization first. Each customization may also be presented
with its prompt text (e.g. "select color") and a value selection entry box.
                                                21

[0099]      It will be appreciated that it is possible to have multiple customization records for a
specific property having the same ID. For example, one record may provide the text prompt
"change width to:" while a different record with the same ID may provide the text prompt "enter
new width:" In such cases dialog builder 40 may select the right value to use based on the
attached priority, most common value, related component properties (e.g. select the value
associated with the component(s) having the largest total area), order of definitions or any other
method. Dialog builder 40 may also determine that they should be regarded as separate
customization records if no conflict resolution has been found. It will be appreciated that
multiple customization records having the same single ID may also be required if the same
customization value may modify multiple attributes of a given component. For example, an
"Enter margin" customization should apply the same value to the right and left margins of a
component - which are separate attributes. In an alternative embodiment, system 100 may use
customization records which include multiple sub-records for multiple affected component
attributes.
[00100]     It will be appreciated that dialog builder 40 may construct multiple types of dialogs
such as linear dialogs and hierarchical dialogs (based on a hierarchy classification provided in
the customization records, e.g. using hierarchical customization ID namespace) or may use a
layout based on the layout of the components contributing the customization records. Such
dialog creation may also be affected by dialog creation hints included in the customization
records.
[00101]     Component layout based dialog creation is further illustrated in Fig. 8 to which
reference is now made. As is shown, Page [A] includes components [a], [b], [c] and [d]. When
components [a] and [b] are multi-selected and a "customize" function is invoked via system 100,
page [A] is displayed as page [B] which shows components [a] and [b] as well as the
                                                22

automatically generated customization dialog [e]. Dialog [e] further includes 3 parts (from top)
[j], [g] and [h]. It will be appreciated that newly created dialog [e] is placed within page [B] so as
not to hide components [a] and [b]. Furthermore, since [a] is higher than [b], the customizable
attributes of [a] and [b] are displayed so that [a]-only attributes go to [j] at the top, [b]-only
attributes go to [h] at the bottom and attributes common to both [a] and [b] go to the middle
section [g]. The same may be applied for two-dimensional layout, creating the customization
dialog by placing clusters of customization elements in the page, and using dynamic layout to
provide space when required.
[00102]     Dialog displayer 50 may then present the newly created dialog to designer 5 to receive
his input via value selection entry box. It will be appreciated that during the interaction, designer
5 may      apply the customization values of the relevant attributes, possibly using an
implementation formula in order to provide a WYSIWYGfeedback to the attribute changes.
[00103]     Attribute applier 90 may receive the pertinent input from the designer and may update
the customization records stored in database 70 accordingly (so that the last value entered could
be shown on next invocation), as well as updating the relevant component attributes themselves
using the implementation formula. Attribute applier 90 may apply the customizations specified
by the designer in a number of ways. These ways may include: (a) affecting all (relevant) views
within the current linking component (e.g. the behavior depicted in Fig. 3); (b) affecting the
specific view instances selected by the designer, including the views added through the
expansion process noted above - this affects only the specific item/view combination, so
different instances of the same view may have different customizations and (c) affecting the view
template definition rather than the view instance - so that any change to the said view shall apply
to additional (or all) instances of the view within the website, including uses of the view within
different web pages.
                                                 23

[00104]    It will be appreciated that pages may act as template to other pages, including regular
templates and views (such as templates associated with data items when displayed inside a
linking component). It will be further appreciated that system 100 may also be used with list
components as described herein above.
[00105]    . It will also be appreciated that system 100 may perform the entire functionality
described above subject to a scope definition rule. For example, a page-based scope may unite
components and customization records for all components in the page. A view-based scope may
perform the uniting at the level of each view (as defined above), so that customizations having
the same ID in different views may be regarded as different customizations. An example of this
would be if a customization has the ID "space-below" for a component in the section view and
the dish view such as illustrated in Fig. 2 back to which reference is now made. Two different
"space-below" customizations may be created in the customization dialog. System 100 may also
provide other scope definition rules.
[00106]    Therefore a senior designer or website building system manufacturer may provide to a
more junior designer user -friendly dialogs to aid the efficient building of his or her websites.
[00107]    The processes and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any
particular computer or other apparatus.     Various general-purpose systems may be used with
programs in accordance with the teachings herein, or it may prove convenient to construct a
more specialized apparatus to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of
these systems will appear from the description below. In addition, embodiments of the present
invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be
appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of
the invention as described herein.
                                              24

[00108]      Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the preceding discussions, it is
appreciated that, throughout the specification, discussions utilizing terms such as "processing,"
"computing," "calculating," "determining," or the like, refer to the action and/or processes of a
computer, computing system, or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and/or
transforms data represented as physical, such as electronic, quantities within the computing
system's registers and/or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities
within the computing system's memories, registers or other such information storage,
transmission or display devices.
[00109]      Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatus for performing the
operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes, or it
may comprise a general-purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer
program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable
storage medium, such as, but not limited to, any type of disk, including floppy disks, optical
disks, magnetic-optical disks, read-only memories (ROMs), compact disc read-only memories
(CD-ROMs), random access memories (RAMs), electrically programmable read-only memories
(EPROMs), electrically erasable and programmable read only memories (EEPROMs), magnetic
or optical cards, Flash memory, or any other type of media suitable for storing electronic
instructions and capable of being coupled to a computer system bus.
While certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein, many
modifications, substitutions, changes, and equivalents will now occur to those of ordinary skill in
the art. It is, therefore, to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such
modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.
                                                 25

CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.   A method for a website building system, the method comprising:
                 for said website building system operating a visual page editor displaying
             editable objects of a website page with pre-defined customizable attributes and
             non-customizable attributes;
                 modifying a component customization user interface dialog of said visual
             page editor according to user selected, currently displayed objects of said
             website;
                 receiving input from a user for attributes of said user selected objects via said
             modified component customization user interface dialog; and
                 updating at least one of said user selected objects according to said input.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said modifying comprises presenting
customizable attributes for said user selected objects only.
3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said modifying comprises filtering said
customizable attributes for said user selected objects.
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said modifying comprises ranking the
importance of said customizable attributes for said user selected objects.
5. The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein said updating comprises
enabling bulk updates of attributes of said user selected objects.
6. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 4 wherein said updating
comprises updating multiple said user selected objects based on a single customization of an
attribute of one of said user selected objects.
                                              26

7. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 4 wherein said modifying
comprises at least one of: updating an existing customization user interface dialog and
creating a new customization user interface dialog.
8. The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein at least one of: said user
selected objects, has at least one associated customization record wherein said at least one
customization record specifies configuration rules for a single attribute of an object of said
user selected objects.
9. The method according to claim 8 wherein said at least one customization record comprises
at least one of: a customization ID, a customization prompt text, a specific implementation
formula and a default value.
 10. The method according to claim 8 or claim 9 wherein said creating comprises overriding
predefined and pre-supplied existing customization records for said object.
 11. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 8 to 10 wherein said creating
occurs at least at one of: a view level, a container level, the entire page level or the website
level.
 12. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 8 to 11 wherein said modifying
comprises sorting and prioritizing said customizable attributes.
13. The method according to claim 12 wherein said sorting and prioritizing comprises sorting
by customization ID.
14. A system for a website building system, the system comprising:
                for said website building system operating a visual page editor displaying
            editable objects of a website page with pre-defined customizable attributes and
            non-customizable attributes;
                                             27

                 a dialog builder to modify a customization user interface dialog of said visual
             page editor according to user selected, currently displayed objects of said
             website, said modified customization user interface dialog to receive input from a
             user for attributes of said user selected objects;
                 an updater to update at least one of said user selected objects according to
             said input; and
                 a memory and a processor to activate said dialog builder and said updater.
15. The system according to claim 14 wherein said dialog builder presents customizable
attributes for said user selected objects only.
16. The system according to claim 14 wherein said dialog builder filters said customizable
attributes for said user selected objects.
17. The method according to claim 14 wherein dialog builder ranks the importance of said
customizable attributes for said user selected objects.
18. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 17 wherein said dialog
builder is limited by said website building system.
19. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 18 wherein said updater
enables bulk updates of attributes of said user selected objects.
20. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 18 wherein said updater
updates multiple said user selected objects based on a single customization of an attribute of
one of said user selected objects.
21. The method according to any one of the preceding claims 14 to 20 wherein said dialog
builder performs at least one of: updating an existing customization user interface dialog and
creating a new customization user interface dialog.
                                                28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           REPLACEMENT
                                  4/9  PAGE

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           REPLACEMENT
                                  7/9  PAGE

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
