                                         Abstract
Provided are methods for treating pancreatic cancer in a patient by administering liposomal
irinotecan (MM-398) alone or in combination with additional therapeutic agents. In one
embodiment, the liposomal irinotecan (MM-398) is co-administered with 5-fluorouracil and
leucovorin.

    METHODS FOR TREATING PANCREATIC CANCER USING COMBINATION
                  THERAPIES COMPRISING LIPOSOMAL IRINOTECAN
         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
No. 2013274287, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
         This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/659,211 (filed June 13, 2012) and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/784,382 (filed
March 14, 2013), both of which are incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
         Despite improvements in cancer treatments, there remains a critical need to further
improve therapies so as to prolong patients' lives while maintaining quality of life, particularly
in the case of advanced cancers such as pancreatic cancers that often are, or become,
resistant to current therapeutic modalities.
         Incidence of pancreatic cancer has markedly increased during the past several
decades. It now ranks as the fourth leading cause of cancer death in the United States.
Pancreatic cancer's high mortality rate is due to a dearth of effective therapies and a
complete absence of reliably durable therapies. Because of the location of the pancreas,
pancreatic cancer is typically not diagnosed until a tumor has become large enough to
produce systemic symptoms. This, coupled with the absence of good screening tools and a
limited understanding of risk factors, results in patients usually having advanced disease,
often advanced metastatic disease, at the time of diagnosis. Metastatic pancreatic cancer
has a dismal prognosis and is almost uniformly fatal, with an overall survival rate of less than
4% at 5 years.
         Chemotherapy with one or more of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and gemcitabine has been
shown to prolong survival in pancreatic cancer. Combination therapies including folinic acid
(leucovorin or levoleucovorin), 5-fluorouracil, and irinotecan (FOLFIRI), folinic acid, 5
fluorouracil, irinotecan and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX), or, less commonly, a combination of
folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) are also used to treat some pancreatic
cancers. Irinotecan is 7-ethyl-10-[4-(1-piperidino)-1-piperidino] carbonyloxycampothecin,
IUPAC name (S)-4,11-diethyl-3,4,12,14-tetrahydro-4-hydroxy-3,14-dioxolH-pyrano[3',4':6,7]-

indolizino[1,2-b]quinolin-9-yl-[1,4'bipiperidine]-1'-carboxylate. Irinotecan is a member of the
topoisomerase I inhibitor class of drugs and is a semi-synthetic and water soluble

analog of the naturally-occurring alkaloid, camptothecin. Also known as CPT-11,
irinotecan is currently marketed formulated as an aqueous solution as Camptosar®
(irinotecan hydrochloride injection). Topoisomerase I inhibitors such as irinotecan
work to arrest uncontrolled cell growth by inhibiting the unwinding of DNA and
thereby preventing DNA replication.
        The pharmacology of irinotecan is complex, with extensive metabolic
conversions involved in the activation, inactivation, and elimination of the drug.
Irinotecan is a prodrug that is converted by nonspecific carboxylesterases into a 100
1000 fold more active metabolite, SN-38. SN-38 is not recognized by P-glycoprotein,
a drug transporter that plays an important role in acquired drug resistance by pumping
certain drugs out of cells, so irinotecan is likely to be active in tumors resistant to
other standard chemotherapies. In the body, SN-38 is cleared via glucuronidation, for
which major pharmacogenetic variability has been described, and biliary excretion.
These drug properties contribute to the marked heterogeneities in efficacy and toxicity
observed clinically with irinotecan. Irinotecan hydrochloride injection is approved in
the United States for treatment of metastatic colon or renal cancer and is also used to
treat colorectal, gastric, lung, uterine cervical and ovarian cancers.
        There are few approved treatment options for advanced or metastatic
pancreatic cancers, particularly for those of exocrine origin. Single-agent gemcitabine
is the current standard of care in first-line treatment of advanced and metastatic
pancreatic adenocarcinoma. In clinical trials, single-agent gemcitabine has
consistently demonstrated a median prolongation of survival of 5 to 6 months and a 1
year survival rate of about 20%. Single agent gemcitabine was also approved as
second line treatment for patients previously treated with but no longer responsive to
5-fluorouracil, with a median overall prolongation of survival of 3.9 months.
        Based upon what is known of the biology of pancreatic cancer, a variety of
targeted agents have been evaluated, but only erlotinib, a protein tyrosine kinase
inhibitor targeted to EGFR, has been approved for first-line use in advanced
pancreatic cancer, and the approval is only for use in combination with gemcitabine.
The co-administration of erlotinib with gemcitabine resulted in a statistically
significant benefit in survival, and improvements in median survival (6.4 months vs.
5.9 months), and 1-year survival rate (24% vs. 17%) compared to gemcitabine alone.
Clinical trials evaluating other targeted agents, including studies testing the antibodies
bevacizumab and cetuximab, have been disappointingly negative. Thus, there is an
                                            -2-

urgent need for improvements in, and effective alternatives to, current therapies for
pancreatic cancer. The disclosed invention addresses this need and provides other
benefits.
SUMMARY
        Provided are methods for treating pancreatic cancer in a patient (i.e., a human
patient) comprising administering to the patient liposomal irinotecan (e.g., irinotecan
sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection, also referred to as MM-398) alone or in
combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (together, 5-FU/LV),
according to a particular clinical dosage regimen. Compositions adapted for use in
such methods are also provided.
        In one aspect, a method for treatment (e.g., effective treatment) of pancreatic
cancer in a patient is provided, the method comprising: administering to the patient,
and affective amount of liposomal irinotecan, wherein the method comprises at least
one cycle, wherein the cycle is a period of 3 weeks, and wherein for each cycle the
liposomal irinotecan is administered on day 1 of the cycle at a dose of 120 mg/m 2,
except if the patient is homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, wherein liposomal
irinotecan is administered on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 80 mg/m 2 . In one
embodiment, the dose of liposomal irinotecan administered to the patient homozygous
for the UGT1A1*28 allele is increased after one cycle in increments of 20 mg/m 2 , up
to a maximum of 120 mg/m2 .
        In another aspect, a method for treatment of pancreatic cancer in a patient is
provided, the method comprising co-administering to the patient an effective amount
each of liposomal irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and leucovorin, wherein the
method comprises at least one cycle of administration, wherein the cycle is a period of
2 weeks, and wherein for each cycle:
         (a)    liposomal irinotecan is administered to patients not homozygous for
the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of each cycle at a dose of 80 mg/m2 , and to patients
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 and
on day 1 of each subsequent cycle at a dose of ranging from 60 mg/m 2 to 80 mg/m 2
(e.g., 60 mg/m 2 or 70 mg/m 2 or 80 mg/m 2);
         (b)    5-FU is administered at a dose of 2400 mg/m 2 ; and
         (c)    leucovorin is administered at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 (1 form, or
levoleucovorin) or 400 mg/m 2 (1 + d racemic form).
                                          -3-

In one embodiment, the dose of liposomal irinotecan administered to the patient
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is increased after one cycle to 80 mg/m2 . In
one embodiment, in each cycle, the liposomal irinotecan is administered prior to the
leucovorin and the leucovorin is administered prior to the 5-FU.
         In another embodiment, the liposomal irinotecan is administered intravenously
over 90 minutes.
         In another embodiment, the 5-FU is administered intravenously over 46 hours.
         In another embodiment, leucovorin is administered intravenously over 30
minutes.
         In another embodiment, prior to each administration of liposomal irinotecan,
the patient is pre-medicated with dexamethasone and/or a 5-HT3 antagonist or
another anti-emetic.
         In another embodiment, the pancreatic cancer is an exocrine pancreatic cancer
selected from the group consisting of acinar cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma,
adenosquamous carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm
(IPMN), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, serous
cystadenocarcinoma, and solid and pseudopapillary tumors.
         In one embodiment, treating the patient results in a positive outcome, wherein
the positive outcome is pathologic complete response (pCR), complete response (CR),
partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD). In another embodiment, the combination
therapy with liposomal irinotecan, 5-FU and leucovorin results in therapeutic synergy.
In another embodiment, the liposomal irinotecan is formulated as irinotecan sucrose
octasulfate salt liposome injection (MM-398). Irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt
liposome injection may also be referred to as irinotecan HCl liposome injection
because irinotecan HCl is the active pharmaceutical ingredient that is used to load
irinotecan into liposomes containing triethylammonium sucrose octasulfate to prepare
MM-398 liposomes. This nomenclature may be used even though the hydrochloride
ion of the irinotecan HCl reacts with the triethylammonium ion of the
triethylammonium sucrose octasulfate to yield triethylammonium chloride
(triethylamine hydrochloride), leaving irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt as the
entrapped pharmaceutical agent within the MM-398 liposomes. In another aspect,
kits for treating pancreatic cancer in a patient are provided, the kit comprising a dose
of liposomal irinotecan and instructions for using liposomal irinotecan as described
herein.
                                           -4-

        In another aspect, kits for treating pancreatic cancer in a patient are provided,
the kit comprising a dose of each liposomal irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and
leucovorin, and instructions for using liposomal irinotecan, 5-FU, and leucovorin as
described herein.
        In one embodiment, the kit encompasses treating an exocrine pancreatic
cancer selected from the group consisting of acinar cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma,
adenosquamous carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm
(IPMN), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, serous
cystadenocarcinoma, and solid and pseudopapillary tumors.
        In one embodiment, the liposomal irinotecan is liposomal irinotecan sucrose
octasulfate salt injection (MM-398).
        In another aspect, a formulation of liposomal irinotecan for co-administration
with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin in at least one cycle is provided, wherein
the cycle is a period of 2 weeks, the formulation of irinotecan is a liposomal
formulation of irinotecan, and wherein:
         (a)     liposomal irinotecan is administered to patients not homozygous for
the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of each cycle at a dose of 80 mg/m 2 and to patients
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 and
on day 1 of each subsequent cycle at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 or 80 mg/m 2;
         (b)     5-FU is administered at a dose of 2400 mg/m 2 ; and
         (c)     leucovorin is administered at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 (1 form, or
levoleucovorin) or 400 mg/m 2 (1 + d racemic form).
        In one embodiment, after cycle 1 the dose of liposomal irinotecan
administered to the patient homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is increased to 80
mg/m 2 . In another embodiment, the liposomal irinotecan is administered
intravenously over 90 minutes.
        In another embodiment, the 5-FU is administered intravenously over 46 hours.
        In another embodiment, leucovorin is administered intravenously over 30
minutes.
        In another embodiment, prior to each administration of liposomal irinotecan,
the patient is pre-medicated with dexamethasone and/or a 5-HT3 antagonist or
another anti-emetic.
        In another embodiment, the pancreatic cancer is an exocrine pancreatic cancer
selected from the group consisting of acinar cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma,
                                           -5-

adenosquamous carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm
(IPMN), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, serous
cystadenocarcinoma, and solid and pseudopapillary tumors.
         In another embodiment, the liposomal formulation of irinotecan is irinotecan
sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection.
         In another aspect is provided a method of improving chemotherapy outcomes
by increasing tumor vascularity, the method comprising administering to a patient
having a tumor an amount of irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection
effective to increase tumor vascularity and concomitantly administering an effective
amount of a chemotherapy agent other than irinotecan to the patient.
         In another aspect is provided irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome
injection for concomitant administration to a patient having a tumor of 1) an amount
of irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection effective to increase tumor
vascularity and 2) an effective amount of a chemotherapy agent other than irinotecan.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Figure 1 is a graph showing the anti-tumor activity of MM-398 in an orthotopic
pancreatic tumor model expressing luciferase (L3.6pl).
Figure 2 is a graph showing accumulation of SN-38 in tumors following treatment
               with free
irinotecan or liposomal irinotecan (MM-398).
Figure 3 is a graph showing the effect of MM-398 on Carbonic Anhydrase IX
Staining in a HT29 Xenograft Model.
Figure 4 shows the effect of MM-398 on perfusion of small molecule Hoechst stain.
Figure 5 summarizes the pharmacokinetics of MM-398 in q3w (irinotecan, liposome
+ free drug).
Figure 6 summarizes the pharmacokinetics of MM-398 in q3w.
Figure 7 is a schematic illustration of a Phase 3 study design.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
I. Definitions
         As used herein, the term "subject" or "patient" is a human cancer patient.
         As used herein, "effective treatment" refers to treatment producing a beneficial
effect, e.g., amelioration of at least one symptom of a disease or disorder. A
                                           -6-

beneficial effect can take the form of an improvement over baseline, i.e., an
improvement over a measurement or observation made prior to initiation of therapy
according to the method. A beneficial effect can also take the form of arresting,
slowing, retarding, or stabilizing of a deleterious progression of a marker of a cancer.
Effective treatment may refer to alleviation of at least one symptom of a cancer. Such
effective treatment may, e.g., reduce patient pain, reduce the size and/or number of
lesions, may reduce or prevent metastasis of a cancer tumor, and/or may slow growth
of a cancer tumor.
         The term "effective amount" refers to an amount of an agent that provides the
desired biological, therapeutic, and/or prophylactic result. That result can be
reduction, amelioration, palliation, lessening, delaying, and/or alleviation of one or
more of the signs, symptoms, or causes of a disease, or any other desired alteration of
a biological system. In reference to cancers, an effective amount comprises an
amount sufficient to cause a tumor to shrink and/or to decrease the growth rate of the
tumor (such as to suppress tumor growth) or to prevent or delay other unwanted cell
proliferation. In some embodiments, an effective amount is an amount sufficient to
delay tumor development. In some embodiments, an effective amount is an amount
sufficient to prevent or delay tumor recurrence. An effective amount can be
administered in one or more administrations. The effective amount of the drug or
composition may: (i) reduce the number of cancer cells; (ii) reduce tumor size; (iii)
inhibit, retard, slow to some extent and may stop cancer cell infiltration into
peripheral organs; (iv) inhibit (i.e., slow to some extent and may stop) tumor
metastasis; (v) inhibit tumor growth; (vi) prevent or delay occurrence and/or
recurrence of tumor; and/or (vii) relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms
associated with the cancer.
         The terms "combination therapy," "co-administration," "co-administered" or
"concurrent administration" (or minor variations of these terms) include simultaneous
administration of at least two therapeutic agents to a patient or their sequential
administration within a time period during which the first administered therapeutic
agent is still present in the patient when the second administered therapeutic agent is
administered.
         The term "monotherapy" refers to administering a single drug to treat a
disease or disorder in the absence of co-administration of any other therapeutic agent
that is being administered to treat the same disease or disorder.
                                           -7-

         "Dosage" refers to parameters for administering a drug in defined quantities
per unit time (e.g., per hour, per day, per week, per month, etc.) to a patient. Such
parameters include, e.g., the size of each dose. Such parameters also include the
configuration of each dose, which may be administered as one or more units, e.g.,
taken at a single administration, e.g., orally (e.g., as one, two, three or more pills,
capsules, etc.) or injected (e.g., as a bolus). Dosage sizes may also relate to doses that
are administered continuously (e.g., as an intravenous infusion over a period of
minutes or hours). Such parameters further include frequency of administration of
separate doses, which frequency may change over time.
        "Dose" refers to an amount of a drug given in a single administration.
        As used herein, "cancer" refers to a condition characterized by abnormal,
unregulated, malignant cell growth. In one embodiment, the cancer is an exocrine
pancreatic cancer. In another embodiment, the exocrine pancreatic cancer selected
from the group consisting of acinar cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, adenosquamous
carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm (IPMN),
mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, serous cystadenocarcinoma, and
solid and pseudopapillary tumors.
        The terms "resistant" and "refractory" refer to tumor cells that survive
treatment with a therapeutic agent. Such cells may have responded to a therapeutic
agent initially, but subsequently exhibited a reduction of responsiveness during
treatment, or did not exhibit an adequate response to the therapeutic agent in that the
cells continued to proliferate in the course of treatment with the agent.
II. Irinotecan sucrose sulfate liposome injection (MM-398; PEPO2)
        As provided herein, irinotecan is administered in a stable liposomal
formulation as irinotecan sucrose sulfate liposome injection (otherwise termed
"irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection" or "irinotecan sucrosofate
liposome injection"), the formulation referred to herein as "MM-398" (also known as
PEPO2, see US 8,147,867). MM-398 may be provided as a sterile, injectable
parenteral liquid for intravenous injection. The required amount of MM-398 may be
diluted, e.g., in 500mL of 5% dextrose injection USP and infused over a 90 minute
period.
        An MM-398 liposome is a unilamellar lipid bilayer vesicle of approximately
80-140 nm in diameter that encapsulates an aqueous space which contains irinotecan
complexed in a gelated or precipitated state as a salt with sucrose octasulfate. The
                                            -8-

lipid membrane of the liposome is composed of phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol, and
a polyethyleneglycol-derivatized phosphatidyl-ethanolamine in the amount of
approximately one polyethyleneglycol (PEG) molecule for 200 phospholipid
molecules.
         This stable liposomal formulation of irinotecan has several attributes that may
provide an improved therapeutic index. The controlled and sustained release
improves activity of this schedule-dependent drug by increasing duration of exposure
of tumor tissue to drug, an attribute that allows it to be present in a higher proportion
of cells during the S-phase of the cell cycle, when DNA unwinding is required as a
preliminary step in the DNA replication process. The long circulating
pharmacokinetics and high intravascular drug retention in the liposomes can promote
an enhanced permeability and retention (EPR) effect. EPR allows for deposition of
the liposomes at sites, such as malignant tumors, where the normal integrity of the
vasculature (capillaries in particular) is compromised resulting in leakage out of the
capillary lumen of particulates such as liposomes. EPR may thus promote site
specific drug delivery of liposomes to solid tumors. EPR of MM-398 may result in a
subsequent depot effect, where liposomes accumulate in tumor associated
macrophages (TAMs), which metabolize irinotecan, converting it locally to the
substantially more cytotoxic SN-38. This local bioactivation is believed to result in
reduced drug exposure at potential sites of toxicity and increased exposure at cancer
cells within the tumor.
                 Pharmacogenetics of Irinotecan Glucuronidation
         The enzyme produced by the UGT1A1 gene, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1,
is responsible for bilirubin metabolism and also mediates SN-38 glucuronidation,
which is the initial step in the predominant metabolic clearance pathway of this active
metabolite of irinotecan. Besides its anti-tumor activity, SN-38 is also responsible for
the severe toxicity sometimes associated with irinotecan therapy. Therefore, the
glucuronidation of SN-38 to the inactive form, SN-38 glucuronide, is an important
step in the modulation of irinotecan toxicity.
         Mutational polymorphisms in the promoter of the UGT1A1 gene have been
described in which there is a variable number of thymine adenine (ta) repeats.
Promoters containing seven thymine adenine (ta) repeats (found in the UGT1A1*28
allele) have been found to be less active than the wild-type six repeats, resulting in
reduced expression of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1. Patients who carry two
                                            -9-

deficient alleles of UGT1A1 exhibit reduced glucuronidation of SN-38. Some case
reports have suggested that individuals who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28 alleles
(referred to as having the UGT1A1 7/7 genotype, because both alleles are
UGT1A1*28 alleles that contain 7 ta repeats, as opposed to the wild-type UGT1A1
6/6 genotype in which both alleles contain 6 ta repeats) and who have fluctuating
elevation in serum bilirubin, (e.g., Gilbert's Syndrome patients), may be at greater
risk of toxicity upon receiving standard doses of irinotecan. This suggests that there is
a link between homozygosity of the UGT1A1*28 allele, bilirubin levels and
irinotecan toxicity.
         The metabolic transformation of MM-398 to SN-38 (e.g., in plasma) includes
two critical steps: (1) the release of irinotecan from the liposome and (2) the
conversion of free irinotecan to SN-38. While not intending to be limited by theory, it
is believed that once irinotecan leaves the liposomes, it is catabolized by the same
metabolic pathways as conventional (free) irinotecan. Therefore the genetic
polymorphisms in humans predictive for the toxicity and efficacy of irinotecan and
those of MM-398 can be considered similar. Nonetheless, due to the smaller tissue
distribution, lower clearance, higher systemic exposure and longer elimination half
life of SN-38 of the MM-398 formulation compared to free irinotecan, the deficient
genetic polymorphisms may show more association with severe adverse events and/or
efficacy.
                 Patients with Reduced UGT1A1 Activity
         Individuals who are homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele (UGT1A1 7/7
genotype) have been shown to be at increased risk for neutropenia following initiation
of irinotecan treatment. According to the prescribing information for irinotecan
(Camptosar®), in a study of 66 patients who received single-agent irinotecan (350
mg/m2 once every-3-weeks), the incidence of grade 4 neutropenia in patients
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele was as high as 50%, and in patients
heterozygous for this allele (UGT1A1 6/7 genotype) the incidence was 12.5%.
Importantly, no grade 4 neutropenia was observed in patients homozygous for the
wild-type allele (UGT1A1 6/6 genotype). In other studies, a lower prevalence of life
threatening neutropenia is described. For this reason, patients who are enrolled in the
phase 3 study described in the Examples herein and are homozygous for the
UGT1A1*28 allele (UGT1A1 7/7 genotype) will have MM-398 treatment initiated at
                                           - 10 -

a lower dose than patients with one (e.g., UGT1A1 6/7) or two (UGT1A1 6/6) wild
type alleles.
                 Additional genotypic modifiers of irinotecan metabolism
         Although the UGT1A1*28 allele is relatively common in Caucasians
(estimates 10%), the prevalence is varied in other ethnic groups. Furthermore,
additional UGT1A1 genotypes are found with higher prevalence for example in Asian
populations and these could be important for the metabolism of irinotecan in these
populations. For example, the UGT1A1*6 allele is more prevalent in Asians. This
allele is not associated with a ta repeat, but with a Gly7 lArg mutation that reduces
enzyme activity. In previous and ongoing studies of MM-398, pharmacogenetic
information has been collected on patients being enrolled. In a study referred to as
the PEPO203 study, the relationship of genetic polymorphism of UGT1A family and
of DPYD (dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, an enzyme associated with catabolism
of 5-FU) with pharmacokinetic parameters of MM-398 and toxicity did not provide a
clear correlation with the small sample size of subjects evaluated. However, it was
observed that patients with UGT1A1*6/*28 combined polymorphism had higher
dose-normalized AUCs of SN-38 and experienced DLT.
III. 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) and Leucovorin
         5-Fluorouracil is a pyrimidine antagonist that interferes with nucleic acid
biosynthesis. The deoxyribonucleotide of the drug inhibits thymidylate synthetase,
thus inhibiting the formation of thymidylic acid from deoxyuridylic acid, thus
interfering in the synthesis of DNA. It also interferes with RNA synthesis.
         Leucovorin (also called folinic acid) acts as a biochemical cofactor for 1
carbon transfer reactions in the synthesis of purines and pyrimidines. Leucovorin does
not require the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) for conversion to
tetrahydrofolic acid. The effects of methotrexate and other DHFR-antagonists are
inhibited by leucovorin. Leucovorin can potentiate the cytotoxic effects of fluorinated
pyrimidines (i.e., fluorouracil and floxuridine). After 5-FU is activated within the cell,
it is accompanied by a folate cofactor, and inhibits the enzyme thymidylate
synthetase, thus inhibiting pyrimidine synthesis. Leucovorin increases the folate pool,
thereby increasing the binding of folate cofactor and active 5-FU with thymidylate
synthetase.
         Leucovorin has dextro- and levo-isomers, only the latter one being
pharmacologically useful. As such, the bioactive levo-isomer ("levoleucovorin") has
                                           - 11 -

also been approved by the FDA for treatment of cancer. The dosage of
levoleucovorin is typically half that of the racemic mixture containing both dextro (d)
and levo (1)isomers.
        FU and leucovorin will be stored and handled according to the country
specific package inserts.
IV. Administration
        Liposomal irinotecan is administered intravenously, either alone or in
combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and/or leucovorin. In one embodiment,
liposomal irinotecan is administered prior to 5-FU and leucovorin. In another
embodiment, leucovorin is administered prior to 5-FU. In another embodiment,
liposomal irinotecan is administered intravenously over 90 minutes. In another
embodiment, 5-FU is administered intravenously over 46 hours. In another
embodiment, leucovorin is administered intravenously over 30 minutes. In various
embodiments the liposomal irinotecan is MM-398.
V. Patient Populations
        In one embodiment, a patient treated using the methods and compositions
disclosed herein exhibits evidence of recurrent or persistent pancreatic cancer
following primary chemotherapy.
        In another embodiment, the patient has had and failed at least one prior
platinum based chemotherapy regimen for management of primary or recurrent
disease, e.g., a chemotherapy regimen comprising carboplatin, cisplatin, or another
organoplatinum compound.
        In an additional embodiment, the patient has failed prior treatment with
gemcitabine or become resistant to gemcitabine.
          In one embodiment a resistant or refractory tumor is one where the treatment
free interval following completion of a course of therapy for a patient having the
tumor is less than 6 months (e.g., owing to recurrence of the cancer) or where there is
tumor progression during the course of therapy.
        In another embodiment, the pancreatic cancer of the patient undergoing
treatment is advanced pancreatic cancer, which is a pancreatic tumor that exhibits
either or both of distant metastasis or peripancreatic extension of the tumor.
        The compositions and methods disclosed herein are useful for the treatment of
all pancreatic cancers, including pancreatic cancers that are refractory or resistant to
other anti-cancer treatments.
                                          - 12 -

VI. Combination Therapy
         In one embodiment, liposomal irinotecan is co-administered to patients having
pancreatic cancer in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin,
according to a particular clinical dosage regimen, such as those described herein. In
one embodiment, the liposomal irinotecan is MM-398.
         As used herein, adjunctive or combined administration (coadministration)
includes simultaneous administration of the compounds in the same or different
dosage form, or separate administration of the compounds (e.g., sequential
administration). For example, liposomal irinotecan can be simultaneously
administered with 5-FU and leucovorin. Alternatively, liposomal irinotecan can be
administered in combination with 5-FU and leucovorin, wherein liposomal irinotecan,
5-FU and leucovorin are formulated for separate administration and are administered
concurrently or sequentially. For example, liposomal irinotecan can be administered
first followed by (e.g., immediately followed by) the administration of the 5-FU and
leucovorin. Such concurrent or sequential administration preferably results in
liposomal irinotecan, 5-FU, and leucovorin being simultaneously present in treated
patients. In a particular embodiment, liposomal irinotecan is administered prior to 5
FU and leucovorin. In another particular embodiment, leucovorin is administered
prior to 5-FU.
         In another embodiment, liposomal irinotecan, 5-FU, and leucovorin are
formulated for intravenous administration. In a particular embodiment, the patient is
administered an effective amount each of liposomal irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU),
and leucovorin, wherein the treatment comprises at least one cycle, wherein the cycle
is a period of 2 weeks, and wherein for each cycle: (a) liposomal irinotecan is
administered on day 1 of the cycle at a dose of 80 mg/m 2, except if the patient is
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, wherein liposomal irinotecan is administered
on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 ; (b)     5-FU is administered at a dose of
2400 mg/m2 ; and (c) leucovorin is administered at a dose of 200 mg/m2 (1 form) or
400 mg/m 2 (1 + d racemic form) In a particular embodiment, the dose of liposomal
irinotecan administered to the patient homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is
increased after one cycle to 80 mg/m 2.
         In one embodiment, liposomal irinotecan may be initially administered at a
high dose and may be lowered over time. In another embodiment, liposomal
                                         - 13 -

irinotecan is initially administered at a low dose and increased over time. In one
embodiment, liposomal irinotecan is administered as a monotherapy.
        In another embodiment, the dose of 5-FU is varied over time. For example, 5
FU may be initially administered at a high dose and may be lowered over time. In
another embodiment, 5-FU is initially administered at a low dose and increased over
time.
        In another embodiment, the dose of leucovorin is varied over time. For
example, leucovorin may be initially administered at a high dose and may be lowered
over time. In another embodiment, leucovorin is initially administered at a low dose
and increased over time.
VII. Treatment Protocols
        Suitable treatment protocols include, for example, those wherein the patient is
administered an effective amount of liposomal irinotecan, wherein the treatment
comprises at least one cycle, wherein the cycle is a period of 3 weeks, and wherein for
each cycle the liposomal irinotecan is administered on day 1 of the cycle at a dose of
120 mg/m 2 , except if the patient is homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, wherein
liposomal irinotecan is administered on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 80 mg/m 2 . In
one embodiment, the dose of liposomal irinotecan administered to the patient
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is increased after one cycle in increments of
20 mg/m 2 , up to a maximum of 120 mg/m 2.
        In another embodiment, the treatment protocol includes administering to the
patient an effective amount each of liposomal irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and
leucovorin, wherein the treatment comprises at least one cycle, wherein the cycle is a
period of 2 weeks, and wherein for each cycle: (a) liposomal irinotecan is
administered on day 1 of the cycle at a dose of 80 mg/m 2, except if the patient is
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele, wherein liposomal irinotecan is administered
on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 ; (b)      5-FU is administered at a dose of
2400 mg/m2 ; and (c) leucovorin is administered at a dose of 200 mg/m2 (1 form) or
400 mg/m 2 (1 + d racemic form). In a particular embodiment, the dose of liposomal
irinotecan administered to the patient homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is
increased after one cycle to 80 mg/m 2.
                                           - 14 -

VIII. Outcomes
        Provided herein are methods for treating pancreatic cancer in a patient
comprising administering to the patient liposomal irinotecan (MM-398), alone or in
combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin, according to a particular
clinical dosage regimen.
Preferably, the combination therapy with liposomal irinotecan with 5-FU and
leucovorin exhibits therapeutic synergy.
        "Therapeutic synergy" refers to a phenomenon where treatment of patients
with a combination of therapeutic agents manifests a therapeutically superior outcome
to the outcome achieved by each individual constituent of the combination used at its
optimum dose (T. H. Corbett et al., 1982, Cancer Treatment Reports, 66, 1187). In
this context a therapeutically superior outcome is one in which the patients either a)
exhibit fewer incidences of adverse events while receiving a therapeutic benefit that is
equal to or greater than that where individual constituents of the combination are each
administered as monotherapy at the same dose as in the combination, or b) do not
exhibit dose-limiting toxicities while receiving a therapeutic benefit that is greater
than that of treatment with each individual constituent of the combination when each
constituent is administered in at the same doses in the combination(s) as is
administered as individual components. In xenograft models, a combination, used at
its maximum tolerated dose, in which each of the constituents will be present at a dose
generally not exceeding its individual maximum tolerated dose, manifests therapeutic
synergy when decrease in tumor growth achieved by administration of the
combination is greater than the value of the decrease in tumor growth of the best
constituent when the constituent is administered alone.
        Thus, in combination, the components of such combinations have an additive
or superadditive effect on suppressing pancreatic tumor growth, as compared to
monotherapy with liposome-encapsulated irinotecan alone or treatment with the
chemotherapeutic(s) in the absence of liposomal irinotecan therapy. By "additive" is
meant a result that is greater in extent (e.g., in the degree of reduction of tumor
mitotic index or of tumor growth or in the degree of tumor shrinkage or the frequency
and/or duration of symptom-free or symptom-reduced periods) than the best separate
result achieved by monotherapy with each individual component, while
"superadditive" is used to indicate a result that exceeds in extent the sum of such
separate results. In one embodiment, the additive effect is measured as slowing or
                                           - 15 -

stopping of pancreatic tumor growth. The additive effect can also be measured as,
e.g., reduction in size of a pancreatic tumor, reduction of tumor mitotic index,
reduction in number of metastatic lesions over time, increase in overall response rate,
or increase in median or overall survival.
         One non-limiting example of a measure by which effectiveness of a
therapeutic treatment can be quantified is by calculating the log10 cell kill, which is
determined according to the following equation:
         log 10 cell kill = T C (days)/3.32 x Td
         in which T C represents the delay in growth of the cells, which is the average
time, in days, for the tumors of the treated group (T) and the tumors of the control
group (C) to have reached a predetermined value (1 g, or 10 mL, for example), and Td
represents the time, in days necessary for the volume of the tumor to double in the
control animals. When applying this measure, a product is considered to be active if
log10 cell kill is greater than or equal to 0.7 and a product is considered to be very
active if log10 cell kill is greater than 2.8. Using this measure, a combination, used at
its own maximum tolerated dose, in which each of the constituents is present at a dose
generally less than or equal to its maximum tolerated dose, exhibits therapeutic
synergy when the log10 cell kill is greater than the value of the log10 cell kill of the
best constituent when it is administered alone. In an exemplary case, the log10 cell
kill of the combination exceeds the value of the log10 cell kill of the best constituent
of the combination by at least 0.1 log cell kill, at least 0.5 log cell kill, or at least 1.0
log cell kill.
         Responses to therapy may include:
Pathologic complete response (pCR): absence of invasive cancer in the breast and
lymph nodes following primary systemic treatment.
Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological
lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) which has reduction in short axis to <10
mm;
Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of dimensions of target
lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters;
                                            - 16 -

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response, nor
sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest
sum diameters while on study; or
         Meanwhile, non-CR/Non-PD denotes a persistence of one or more non-target
lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits.
         Progressive Disease (PD) denotes at least a 20% increase in the sum of
dimensions of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this
includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative
increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of 5 mm. The
appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression.
         In exemplary outcomes, patients treated according to the methods disclosed herein
may experience improvement in at least one sign of pancreatic cancer.
         In one embodiment the patient so treated exhibits pCR, CR, PR, or SD.
         In another embodiment, the patient so treated experiences tumor shrinkage and/or
decrease in growth rate, i.e., suppression of tumor growth. In another embodiment,
unwanted cell proliferation is reduced or inhibited. In yet another embodiment, one or
more of the following can occur: the number of cancer cells can be reduced; tumor size
can be reduced; cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs can be inhibited, retarded,
slowed, or stopped; tumor metastasis can be slowed or inhibited; tumor growth can be
inhibited; recurrence of tumor can be prevented or delayed; one or more of the symptoms
associated with cancer can be relieved to some extent.
         In other embodiments, such improvement is measured by a reduction in the
quantity and/or size of measurable tumor lesions. Measurable lesions are defined as those
that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest diameter is to be
recorded) as >10 mm by CT scan (CT scan slice thickness no greater than 5 mm), 10 mm
caliper measurement by clinical exam or >20 mm by chest X-ray. The size of non-target
lesions, e.g., pathological lymph nodes can also be measured for improvement. In one
embodiment, lesions can be measured on chest x-rays or CT or MRI films.
         In other embodiments, cytology or histology can be used to evaluate
responsiveness to a therapy. The cytological confirmation of the neoplastic origin of any
effusion that appears or worsens during treatment when the measurable tumor has met
criteria for response or stable disease can be considered to differentiate between response
                                          - 17 -

or stable disease (an effusion may be a side effect of the treatment) and progressive
disease.
         In some embodiments, administration of effective amounts of liposomal
irinotecan, 5-FU and leucovorin according to any of the methods provided herein produce
at least one therapeutic effect selected from the group consisting of reduction in size of a
breast tumor, reduction in number of metastatic lesions appearing over time, complete
remission, partial remission, stable disease, increase in overall response rate, or a
pathologic complete response. In some embodiments, the provided methods of treatment
produce a comparable clinical benefit rate (CBR = CR+ PR+ SD > 6 months) better than
that achieved by the same combinations of anti-cancer agents administered without
concomitant MM-398 administration. In other embodiments, the improvement of clinical
benefit rate is about 20% 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% or more compared to
the same combinations of anti-cancer agents administered without concomitant MM-398
administration.
         The following examples are illustrative and should not be construed as limiting the
scope of this disclosure in any way; many variations and equivalents will become
apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading the present disclosure.
EXAMPLES
Example 1: Activity of MM-398 in an Orthotopic Pancreas Tumor Model
Expressing Luciferase (L3.6pl)
         The anti-tumor activity of MM-398 was assessed in an orthotopic pancreatic
cancer model (L3.6pl), a highly hypoxic preclinical tumor model. Approximately 2.5
x 10-5 L3.6pl pancreatic tumor cells were implanted by direct injection into the
pancreas. The bioluminescence images (BLI) were followed over time for tumor
burden detection/quantitation. MM-398 and free irinotecan were dosed at a dose of
20 mg/kg/dose weekly for three weeks. As shown in Figure 1, MM-398 (liposomal
CPT 11) had significant anti-tumor activity, as compared to a control (HBS) and free
CPT11.
Example 2: Accumulation of SN-38 in Tumors Following Treatment with Free
Irinotecan or Liposomal Irinotecan (MM-398)
         It was hypothesized that the anti-tumor activity observed in the orthotopic
pancreatic cancer model is due to the effect of macrophages in converting irinotecan
                                           - 18 -

to the more active SN-38 locally. To test this hypothesis, human colon cancer cells
(HT-29) were injected subcutaneously into SCID mice, 40 mg/kg of free irinotecan or
MM-398 was injected intravenously when the tumors reached 1000 mm3 in size.
Tumor-bearing mice were sacrificed at different time points, tumors from both groups
were extracted and the concentrations of SN-38 were measured.
        As shown in Figure 2, there was a 20-fold increase in the tumor AUCSN-38 for
MM-398 as compared to free irinotecan. The long duration of exposure allows for
prolonged exposure of the slow proliferating cancer cells to the active metabolite as
they progress through the cell cycle. In addition, this activity was also hypothesized
to result from a reduction in intra-tumoral hypoxia, and the subsequent downstream
effects on angiogenesis, metastasis, and the immunosuppressive environment in
tumors.
Example 3: Effect of MM-398 on Carbonic Anhydrase IX Staining in a HT29
Xeno2raft Model
        To test whether MM-398 reduces markers of hypoxia, experiments were
conducted in a human colon cancer cell (HT-29) model. Specifically, HT-29 cells
were injected subcutaneously into nude mice, on day 13 either PBS control or 1.25,
2.5, 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg MM-398 was injected intravenously. MM-398 was dosed once
a week for 4 weeks at the indicated doses. Tumors from both groups (n = 5) were
extracted 24 hours after the last dose. Frozen tumor sections were used for
immunohistochemical staining of Carbonic Anhydrase IX (CAIX). Quantification of
CAIX staining was performed using Definiens* (Definiens AG, Munich) software.
        As shown in Figure 3, MM-398 reduced markers of hypoxia. Specifically, the
graphs in Figure 3 show the percentage of cells that stained with medium (middle
third) or high (top third) intensity for CAIX. Representative samples from each group
are shown as well as the group average (mean +/- stdev). MM-398 treatment
modifies the tumor microenvironment by decreasing the percentage of both medium
and high CAIX positive cells in a dose-dependent manner. As hypoxia is a hallmark
of resistant and aggressive disease, a reduction in hypoxia is expected to make tumor
cells more sensitive to chemotherapies.
Example 4: MM-398 Increases Perfusion of Hoechst Stain
        In addition to changing the chemosensitivity of tumor cells through
modification of the tumor microenvironment, lowering hypoxia can indicate improved
tumor vascularization, which can facilitate delivery of small molecule therapies.
                                          - 19 -

MM-398 treatment led to increased microvessel density 6 days after treatment as
measured by CD31 (platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule) staining in an HT29
xenograft study. To further assess the effect of MM-398 on small molecule tumor
vascularization, a Hoechst 33342 perfusion experiment was conducted.        Specifically,
a primary pancreatic tumor was grown in NOD-SCID mice and given one dose of
MM-398 (20mg/kg). After 24 hours, Hoechst 33342 stain was administered 20
minutes prior to sacrificing the animal. As shown in Figure 4, the increase in stain
intensity in treated mice was statistically significant, p < 0.001. These data indicate
that MM-398 modifies the tumor microenvironment in a manner that should make
tumors more susceptible to agents such as 5-FU/LV, through decreasing tumor
hypoxia and increasing small molecule perfusion.
Example 5: MM-398 Pharmacokinetics in Humans (Phase I)
         The pharmacokinetic profile of MM-398 single agent was investigated in a
phase I clinical study (PEP0201) in patients at 60, 120 or 180mg/m 2 dose levels and in
a phase II clinical trial in gastric cancer patients (PEP0206) at 120mg/M 2 . Plasma
levels of total irinotecan, SN-38 and encapsulated irinotecan were measured in these
studies.
         The peak serum concentrations of total irinotecan (Cmax) ranged from 48-79
[tg/ml for 120mg/M 2 of MM-398, which was approximately 50 fold higher than
125mg/m 2 free irinotecan. The total irinotecan half-life (t1  2) for MM-398 ranged
from 21 to 48 hours, which was approximately 2-3 fold higher than 125mg/m 2 of free
irinotecan. Overall, total irinotecan exposure at one week (AUC 0-T) ranged from
1200- 3000 (ag*h/ml) at a dose of 120 mg/m 2 of MM-398, approximately 50-100 fold
higher than 300mg/m 2 of free irinotecan. In contrast, SN38 Cmax levels at 120mg/M 2
of MM-398 ranged from 9 to 17 ng/ml, which was approximately 50% less than free
irinotecan at 125mg/m 2 . Overall, exposure of SN38 at one week (AUC 0-T) ranged
from 474 to 997 ng*/ml and was only 1-2 fold higher than achieved by free irinotecan
at 300mg/m 2 . For both SN38 and total irinotecan, AUC increased less than
proportionally with dose of MM-398. The PK parameters of encapsulated irinotecan
almost matched that of total irinotecan indicates that most of irinotecan remained
encapsulated in the liposomes during circulation. The MM-398 PK parameters were
not significantly changed when combined with 5-FU/LV. Figures 5 and 6 summarize
the PK findings in previous studies of MM 398.
                                            - 20 -

Example 6: Phase 1 Dose Escalation Study
        A regimen combining fluorouracil, leucovorin, and MM-398 was studied in a
phase 1 trial of solid tumors in 16 subjects, of whom 5 were patients with pancreatic
cancer. The objective tumor response rate, duration of response, and disease control
rate were efficacy endpoints of the study. Among the 15 efficacy-evaluable patients,
2 (13.3%) had confirmed PR, 9 (60.0%) had SD, and 4 (26.7%) had PD. The overall
disease control rate was 73.3%. Partial response was observed in one gastric cancer
patient (at 80mg/m 2 dose level) and one breast cancer patient (at 100 mg/m2 dose
level), with the duration of response of 142 and 76 days, respectively. Among the 6
patients who received the MTD dose of 80 mg/m 2, there were 1 PR, 4 SD and 1 PD.
The tumor response rate and disease control rate were 16.7% and 83.3%, respectively.
The main DLTs were grade 3 diarrhea, leucopenia, neutropenia and febrile
neutropenia. The MTD for MM-398 was 80mg/m2 .
        In the phase 1 dose-escalation study of MM-398 in combination with 5
FU/LV in advanced solid tumors (PEP0203), a total of 401 episodes of AE were
reported from the 16 treated subjects (safety population), of which 74 (18.4%) were of
CTC grade 3 or above. Among all AEs, 231 (57.6%) were considered by the
investigators to be treatment-related. The most common treatment-related AEs,
included nausea (81.3%), diarrhea (75.0%), vomiting (68.8%), fatigue (43.8%),
mucositis (43.8%), leucopenia (37.5%), neutropenia (37.5%), weight loss (37.5%),
anemia (31.3%), and alopecia (31.3%). Acute cholinergic diarrhea was rarely
observed. Table 1 provides the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events by
maximum CTC grade and by causality (incidence          20%), as seen in the PEP0203
study. Table 2 provides the incidence of grade 3 or higher treatment-emergent
adverse events seen in the 5 pancreatic cancer patients treated in the PEP0203 study.
Table 1: Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events by maximum CTC
grade and
by causality (incidence     20%) in the PEP0203 Study
System organ class                               Total    Severity            Causality2
  Preferred Term                               (N = 16)   (Grade)'
                                                          I | II III    lIV    Yes INo
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
  Anemia                                      7(43.8%)    3    2    2     0     5     2
  Leucopenia                                  6 (37.5%)   0    3    2      1    6     0
                                         - 21 -

System organ class                              Total    Severity             Causality2
   Preferred Term                             (N = 16)   (Grade)'
                                                          I | II  IIIV         Yes    No
   Neutropenia                               6 (37.5%)    0   2    3     1      6      0
Gastrointestinal disorders
   Abdominal pain                            7 (43.8%)    3   2    2     0      3      4
   Constipation                              6 (37.5%)    3   3    0     0      0      6
                                                  12      3   4    5     0      12     0
   Diarrhea
                                               (75.0%)
   Nausea                                         13      6   6    1     0      13     0
                                               (81.3%)
   Vomiting                                       12      3   8    1     0      11     1
                                               (75.0%)
General disorders and administration site
conditions
   Fatigue                                   8(50.0%)     4   3    1     0      7      1
   Mucosal inflammation                      7 (43.8%)    4   3    0     0      7      0
   Pyrexia                                   7 (43.8%)    3   4    0     0      2      5
Infections and infestations
   Infection                                 6 (37.5%)    0   3    3     0      2      4
Investigations
   ALT increased                             5(31.3%)     3   2    0     0      4      1
   AST increased                             4 (25.0%)    3    1   0     0       1     3
   Weight decreased                          8 (50.0%)    4   4    0     0      6      2
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
   Anorexia                                  4(25.0%)     1   2    1     0      3      1
   Hypoalbuminaemia                          4 (25.0%)    0   3    1     0      0      4
   Hypocalcaemia                             5 (31.3%)    1   4    0     0      0      5
   Hypokalaemia                              8 (50.0%)    2   0    5     1      2      6
   Hyponatraemia                             4 (25.0%)    2   0    0     2      0      4
Nervous system disorders
   Dizziness                                 4(25.0%)     4   0    0     0       1     3
Psychiatric disorders
   Insomnia                                  4(25.0%)     4   0    0     0       1     3
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal
disorders
   Cough                                     5(31.3%)     3    1   1     0      0      5
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
   Alopecia                                  5 (31.3%)    5 0      0     0      5      0
':Severity grading used the highest grading ever rated   for each subject if the subject
    had such adverse event reported
2
  :Defined as subject ever experienced AE related to the study drug in causality or not
                                        - 22 -

  Table 2: Incidence of Grade 3 or higher treatment-emergent adverse events in
  pancreatic cancer patients in the PEP0203 Study
-Any primary system organ class
 -Total                               3(6.)       02            ( 66.7)  1 (100.0)
Infections and infestations
 -Total                               3 ( 60.0)   0          2 ( 66.7)   1 (100.0)
 Hepatitis viral                       1 ( 20.0)  0           1 ( 33.3)  0
 Infection                             1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
 Pneumonia                             1 ( 20.0)  0           1 ( 33.3)  0
 Septic shock                          1 ( 20.0)  0           1 ( 33.3)  0
Blood and lymphatic system
disorders
 -Total                               2 ( 40.0)   0           1 (33.3)   1 (100.0)
 Lymphopenia                           1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
 Neutropenia                           1 ( 20.0)  0           1 ( 33.3)  0
 White blood cell disorder             1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
Gastrointestinal disorders
 -Total                               2 ( 40.0)   0           1 (33.3)   1 (100.0)
 Diarrhoea                            2 ( 40.0)   0           1 ( 33.3)  1 (100.0)
 Abdominal pain                        1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
 Gastrointestinal haemorrhage          1 ( 20.0)  0           1 ( 33.3)  0
Investigations
 -Total                               2 ( 40.0)   0           1 (33.3)   1 (100.0)
 Blood bilirubin increased             1 ( 20.0)  0           1 ( 33.3)  0
 Lipase increased                      1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
 Neutrophil count decreased            1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
 White blood cell count decreased      1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
 -Total                               2 ( 40.0)   0           1 (33.3)   1 (100.0)
 Hypoalbuminaemia                      1 ( 20.0)  0          1 ( 33.3)   0
 Hypokalaemia                          1 ( 20.0)  0          1 ( 33.3)   0
 Hyponatraemia                         1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
 Hypophosphataemia                     1 ( 20.0)  0          0           1 (100.0)
                                       - 23  -

Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal
disorders
 -Total                                    2 ( 40.0)     0            1 (33.3)     1 (100.0)
 Dyspnoea                                  1 ( 20.0)     0           0             1 (100.0)
 Pleural effusion                          1 ( 20.0)     0            1 ( 33.3)    0
General disorders and administration
site conditions
 -Total                                    1 (20.0)      0           0             1 (100.0)
 Death                                     1 (20.0)      0           0             1 (100.0)
  Example 7: Phase 3 Trial
           The promising efficacy and safety data from the Phase 1 Trial (described
  above) warrant the MM-398 and 5-FU plus leucovorin combination to be explored
  further in a phase 3 study.
           A. Objectives
           The primary objective of the Phase 3 trial is to compare overall survival
  following treatment with MM-398, with or without 5-fluorouracil plus leucovorin,
  versus 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer that
  have progressed on gemcitabine based therapy. The secondary objectives includes the
  following:
           To compare time-to-event efficacy endpoints between the experimental and
  control arms (i.e., Progression-free survival (PFS) and Time to treatment failure
   (TTF));
               e To compare the Objective Response Rate (ORR) between the
                  treatment arms;
               e To compare the tumor marker response of CA 19-9 between the
                  treatment arms;
               e To compare the Clinical Benefit Response (CBR) rate between the
                  treatment arms;
                                           - 24  -

            e   To assess patient-reported outcomes (PROs) between the treatment
                arms using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of
                Cancer (EORTC) quality-of-life core questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ
                C30);
            e   To compare the safety and adverse event profile between the treatment
                arms; and
            e   To determine the pharmacokinetic properties of MM-398, as a single
                agent and in combination with 5-FU and leucovorin.
        A key exploratory objective of this study is to explore biomarkers associated
with toxicity and efficacy following treatment with MM-398 and MM-398 plus 5-FU
and leucovorin.
        B. Study Desi2n
        This is an open label, randomized, three arm, Phase 3 trial of MM-398, with or
without 5-FU and leucovorin, versus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (also
known as folinic acid), in metastatic pancreatic cancer patients who have progressed
on prior gemcitabine based therapy.
        Approximately 405 eligible patients will be enrolled in this global study, under
the protocol version 2 or later. All patients will participate in up to 28 days of
screening, during which they will be assessed for eligibility and screened for the
UGT1A1*28 allele. Eligible patients will be randomized, in a 1:1:1 ratio, to one of
the following treatment arms:
Arm A (experimental             MM 398 120 mg/m2 IV over 90 minutes, every 3
arm): MM-398                    weeks. Patients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28
                                allele will receive the first cycle of therapy at a reduced
                                dose of 80 mg/m 2 . If the patient does not experience
                                any drug related toxicity after the first administration of
                                MM-398, from cycle 2 onwards, the dose may be
                                increased in increments of 20 mg/m 2 up to a maximum
                                of 120 mg/m 2.
Arm B (control arm):            5-FU 2000 mg/m 2 IV over 24-hours (+/- 30 minutes),
5-FU and leucovorin             administered weekly for 4 weeks (days 1, 8,15 and 22),
                                followed by 2 weeks of rest, in a 6 weekly cycle.
                                Levoleucovorin dosed at 200 mg/m 2 or the leucovorin I+
                                d racemic mixture dosed at 400 mg/m 2, given IV over 30
                                minutes, administered weekly for 4 weeks (days 1, 8,15
                                and 22), followed by 2 weeks of rest, in a 6 weekly cycle.
Arm C (experimental             MM-398 80 mg/m 2 IV over 90 minutes, every 2 weeks.
arm): MM-398, 5-FU and          Patients who are homozygous for UGT1 Al *28 allele and
                                are randomized to Arm C, will receive the first cycle of
                                           - 25 -

leucovorin                      therapy at a reduced dose of 60 mg/m2. If the patient
                                does not experience any drug related toxicity after the
                                first administration of MM-398, from cycle 2 onwards,
                                the dose may be increased to 80 mg/m 2.
                                5-FU 2400 mg/m 2 IV over 46-hours, every 2 weeks.
                                 Levoleucovorin dosed at 200 mg/m 2 or the I + d racemic
                                mixture dosed at 400 mg/m 2 , IV over 30 minutes, every 2
                                weeks.
                                 MM-398 should be administered prior to 5-FU and
                                 leucovorin; leucovorin should always be administered
                                prior to 5-FU. If the dosing of either MM-398 or 5
                                 FU/leucovorin needs to be withheld, then the other drug
                                 inthe combination should not be administered either.
         Patients will be evenly randomized to the treatment arms using an Interactive
Web Response System (IWRS) at a central location. The randomization will be
stratified based on the following prognostic factors:
         " Baseline albumin levels (> 4.0 g/dL vs < 4.0 g/dL)
         " KPS (70 and 80 vs > 90)
         " Ethnicity (Caucasian vs East Asian vs All Others)
         Therapy will be administered in cycles. Patients will be treated until disease
progression (radiologic or clinical deterioration), intolerable toxicity or other reasons
for study termination. Tumor responses will be assessed, using the RECIST
guidelines (Eisenhauer, E.A., et al., "New response evaluation criteria in solid tumors:
Revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1). EuropeanJournal of Cancer,2009. 45:pp.
228-247) every 6 weeks or sooner if disease progression based on clinical signs and
symptoms is evident. Tumor measurement images will be collected and stored on all
patients throughout the study. However, all treatment decisions will be based on the
local radiologist and/or PI assessment of disease status. An independent review of the
scans may be performed in the event that an independent analysis of ORR and/or PFS
is necessary.
         Following treatment discontinuation a 30-day post therapy follow up visit is
required. Subsequently, all patients will be followed-up every 1 month for overall
survival (by phone or visit to the study site) until death or study closure, whichever
occurs first. Patients, who withdraw from study treatment due to reasons other than
objective disease progression, should continue to be assessed every 6 weeks during
the follow-up period for radiologic progression (including patients who discontinue
due to symptomatic deterioration).
                                           - 26 -

        All patients will be asked to complete a pain assessment and analgesic
consumption diary throughout their participation in the study, which will document
the patient's assessment of their pain intensity and daily analgesic consumption.
Patient responses will be used for assessment of the clinical benefit response along
with the other parameters. All patients will also be required to complete the EORTC
QLQ-C30 questionnaire for assessing quality of life.
        In order to address the exploratory objectives of this study, all sites will be
required to participate in the companion translational research (TR) protocol (MM
398-07-03-0l.TR), unless prohibited by local regulations. Participation is this study
will be optional for patients and they will be required to provide a separate consent for
the translational research.
        The primary analysis of OS will take place once at least 305 deaths events
have occurred in patients enrolled under protocol version 2 or later. Patients receiving
study treatment at the time of primary analysis for OS will continue to receive
treatment until one of the criteria for discontinuation is met. During the course of the
study, regular review of safety data will be conducted by an independent data safety
monitoring board (DSMB). Figure 7 illustrates the study design.
        C. Patient Selection and Discontinuation
        Approximately 405 patients will be enrolled globally in this study, under the
protocol version 2 or later. In order to be included in the study, patients must have/be:
        1. Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of exocrine
            pancreas
        2. Documented metastatic disease; disease status may be measurable or non
            measurable as defined by RECIST v1. 1 guidelines
        3. Documented disease progression after prior gemcitabine or gemcitabine
            containing therapy, in locally advanced or metastatic setting. Examples of
            permitted therapies include, but are not limited to:
                -   Single agent gemcitabine
                -   Any one gemcitabine-based regimen, with or without maintenance
                    gemcitabine
                -   Single agent gemcitabine to which a platinum agent, a
                    fluoropyrimidine, or erlotinib was subsequently added
                                           - 27 -

                .   Gemcitabine administered in the adjuvant setting if disease
                    recurrence occurred within 6 months of completing the adjuvant
                    therapy
       4. Kamofsky Performance Status (KPS) > 70
       5. Adequate bone marrow reserves as evidenced by:
                -   ANC > 1,500 cells/p1 without the use of hematopoietic growth
                    factors; and
                -   Platelet count > 100,000 cells/p1; and
                -   Hemoglobin > 9 g/dL (blood transfusions are permitted for patients
                    with hemoglobin levels below 9 g/dL)
       6. Adequate hepatic function as evidenced by:
                -   Serum total bilirubin within normal range for the institution (biliary
                    drainage is allowed for biliary obstruction)
                .   Albumin levels    > 3.0 g/dL
                -   Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase
                    (ALT) < 2.5 x ULN (< 5 x ULN is acceptable if liver metastases
                    are present)
       7. Adequate renal function as evidenced by a serum creatinine < 1.5 x ULN
        8. Normal ECG or ECG without any clinically significant findings
       9. Recovered from the effects of any prior surgery, radiotherapy or other anti
            neoplastic therapy
        10. At least 18 years of age
        11. Able to understand and sign an informed consent (or have a legal
            representative who is able to do so)
       Patients must meet all the inclusion criteria listed above and none of the
following exclusion criteria:
        1. Active CNS metastases (indicated by clinical symptoms, cerebral edema,
            steroid requirement, or progressive disease)
       2. Clinically significant gastrointestinal disorder including hepatic disorders,
            bleeding, inflammation, occlusion, or diarrhea > grade 1
       3. History of any second malignancy in the last 5 years; subjects with prior
            history of in-situ cancer or basal or squamous cell skin cancer are eligible.
                                           - 28 -

            Subjects with other malignancies are eligible if they have been
            continuously disease free for at least 5 years.
        4. Severe arterial thromboembolic events (myocardial infarction, unstable
            angina pectoris, stroke) less than 6 months before inclusion
        5. NYHA Class III or IV congestive heart failure, ventricular arrhythmias or
            uncontrolled blood pressure
        6. Active infection or an unexplained fever > 38.5'C during screening visits
            or on the first scheduled day of dosing (at the discretion of the investigator,
            patients with tumor fever may be enrolled), which in the investigator's
            opinion might compromise the patient's participation in the trial or affect
            the study outcome
        7. Known hypersensitivity to any of the components of MM-398, other
            liposomal products, fluropyrimidines or leucovorin
        8. Investigational therapy administered within 4 weeks, or within a time
            interval less than at least 5 half-lives of the investigational agent,
            whichever is longer, prior to the first scheduled day of dosing in this study
        9. Any other medical or social condition deemed by the Investigator to be
            likely to interfere with a patient's ability to sign informed consent,
            cooperate and participate in the study, or interfere with the interpretation
            of the results
        10. Pregnant or breast feeding; females of child-bearing potential must test
            negative for pregnancy at the time of enrollment based on a urine or serum
            pregnancy test. Both male and female patients of reproductive potential
            must agree to use a reliable method of birth control, during the study and
            for 3 months following the last dose of study drug.
        The criteria for enrollment must be followed explicitly. Patients will be
discontinued from the study treatment in the following circumstances:
        e   Patient has evidence of disease progression based on RECIST v1.1 criteria
        e   Patient shows symptomatic deterioration
        e   Patient experiences intolerable toxicity, or an adverse event which
                   requires:
                 o   A third dose reduction
                                           - 29  -

                  o   Treatment to be withheld for more than 21 days from the start of
                      next cycle, unless, in the opinion of the investigator, the patient is
                      receiving benefit from study treatment
         e    Patient is significantly non-compliant with study procedures per PI
                     assessment
         e    The patient or patient's attending physician requests that the patient be
              withdrawn from the study treatment
         e    The investigator or Sponsor, for any reason, but considering the rights,
              safety and well-being of the patient(s) and in accordance with ICH/GCP
              Guidelines and local regulations, stops the study or stops the patient's
              participation in the study
         If a patient is lost to follow-up or withdraws from study treatment, attempts
should be made to contact the patient to determine the reason for discontinuation. For
patients who are lost to follow-up, at least 3 documented attempts, including one via
certified mail, should be made to contact the patient before considering the patient lost
to follow-up. If a patient discontinues study treatment due to reasons other than
objective disease progression, the patient should continue to have radiological disease
assessment every 6 weeks until objective disease progression is observed.
         All patients who discontinue study treatment should continue to be followed
up as required by the protocol. The only circumstance under which a patient should
not be followed for study endpoints is when the patient has withdrawn consent.
Withdrawal of consent should be a patient initiated decision and should mean, not
only that the patient wishes to discontinue study treatment and follow-up visits but
also that the investigator is no longer authorized to make further efforts to contact the
patient, including any efforts to identify their survival status.
         D. Method of Assi2ning Patients to Treatment Groups
         After all screening assessments have been completed and UGT1A1*28 results
are available, patients will be randomized using a computerized interactive web
response system (IWRS), in a 1:1:1 ratio, to one of the following treatment arms:
         *    Arm A (experimental arm): MM-398
         *    Arm B (control arm): 5-FU and leucovorin
         *    Arm C (experimental arm): MM-398, 5-FU and leucovorin
                                            - 30 -

         Randomization must occur within 7 days of planned dosing. The
randomization will be stratified based on the following prognostic factors:
         *   Baseline albumin levels ( 4.0 g/dL vs < 4.0g/dL)
         *   KPS (70 and 80 vs       90)
         *   Ethnicity (Caucasian vs East Asian vs All Others)
         E. Description of MM-398
         MM-398 is irinotecan (also known as CPT- 11) encapsulated in a liposomal
drug delivery system. It will be supplied as sterile, single-use vials containing 9.5 mL
of MM-398 at a concentration of 5 mg/mL. The vials contain a 0.5 mL excess to
facilitate the withdrawal of the label amount from each 10 mL vial.
         MM-398 must be stored refrigerated at 2 to 8'C, with protection from light.
Light protection is not required during infusion. MM-398 must not be frozen.
Responsible individuals should inspect vial contents for particulate matter before and
after they withdraw the drug product from a vial into a syringe.
         MM-398 must be diluted prior to administration. The diluted solution is
physically and chemically stable for 6 hours at room temperature (15-30'C), but it is
preferred to be stored at refrigerated temperatures (2-8'C), and protected from light.
The diluted solution must not be frozen. Because of possible microbial contamination
during dilution, it is advisable to use the diluted solution within 24 hours if
refrigerated (2-8'C), and within 6 hours if kept at room temperature (15-30'C).
         Twenty vials of MM-398 will be packaged in a cardboard container. The
individual vials, as well as the outside of the cardboard container, will be labeled in
accordance with local regulatory requirements.
         MM-398 will be dosed and administered as follows. All patients will be
screened for UGT1A1*28 allele at baseline.
Arm A              e    Patients who do not have the homozygous allele for
                        UGT1A1*28 will receive MM-398 at a dose of 120 mg/m 2 .
                   e    Any patient who is homozygous for UGT1A1*28 will receive
                        the first cycle of therapy at a reduced dose of 80 mg/m 2. If the
                        patient does not experience any drug related toxicity after the
                        first administration of MM-398, from cycle 2 onwards, their
                        dose can be increased in increments of 20 mg/m 2, up to a
                        maximum of 120 mg/m 2 .
Arm C              e    Patients who do not have the homozygous allele for
                        UGT1A1*28 will receive MM-398 at a dose of 80 mg/m 2 .
                                             - 31 -

                    e  Patients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28 allele and are
                       randomized to Arm C, will receive the first cycle of therapy at a
                       reduced dose of 60 mg/m 2 . If the patient does not experience
                       any drug related toxicity after the first administration of MM
                       398, from cycle 2 onwards, the dose may be increased to 80
                       mg/m 2.
                    e  MM-398 should be administered prior to 5-FU and leucovorin
                       administration.
         In Arm A, MM-398 will be administered by IV infusion over 90 minutes on
the first day of each 3 week cycle, at the investigational site. In Arm C, MM-398 will
be administered by an IV infusion over 90 minutes for the first cycle; the infusion
time could be reduced to 60 minutes from cycle 2 onwards, if no acute infusion
reaction has occurred in cycle 1. Cycle duration is 3 weeks for Arm A and 2 weeks for
Arm C. The first cycle Day 1 is a fixed day; subsequent doses should be administered
on the first day of each cycle +/- 3 days.
         Prior to administration, the appropriate dose of MM-398 must be diluted in
5% Dextrose Injection solution (D5W) to a final volume of 500mL. Care should be
taken not to use in-line filters or any diluents other than D5W. MM-398 can be
administered using standard PVC-containing intravenous administration bags and
tubing.
         The actual dose of MM-398 to be administered will be determined by
calculating the patient's body surface area at the beginning of each cycle. A +/- 5%
variance in the calculated total dose will be allowed for ease of dose administration.
Since MM-398 vials are single-use vials, site staff must not store any unused portion
of a vial for future use and they must discard unused portions of the product.
         All patients must be premedicated prior to MM-398 infusion with standard
doses of dexamethasone and a 5-HT3 antagonist or other anti-emetics as per standard
institutional practices for irinotecan administration. Atropine may be prescribed
prophylactically for patients who experienced acute cholinergic symptoms in the
previous cycles.
                                           - 32 -

         F. Description of 5-FU and Leucovorin
         5-Fluorouracil is a pyrimidine antagonist that interferes with nucleic acid
biosynthesis. The deoxyribonucleotide of the drug inhibits thymidylate synthetase,
thus inhibiting the formation of thymidylic acid from deoxyuridylic acid, thus
interfering in the synthesis of DNA. It also interferes with RNA synthesis.
         Leucovorin acts as a biochemical cofactor for 1-carbon transfer reactions in
the synthesis of purines and pyrimidines. Leucovorin does not require the enzyme
dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) for conversion to tetrahydrofolic acid. The effects of
methotrexate and other DHFR-antagonists are inhibited by leucovorin. Leucovorin
can potentiate the cytotoxic effects of fluorinated pyrimidines (i.e., fluorouracil and
floxuridine). After 5-FU is activated within the cell, it is accompanied by a folate
cofactor, and inhibits the enzyme thymidylate synthetase, thus inhibiting pyrimidine
synthesis. Leucovorin increases the folate pool, thereby increasing the binding of
folate cofactor and active 5-FU with thymidylate synthetase.
         FU and leucovorin will be stored and handled according to the country
specific package inserts. Commercially available 5-FU and leucovorin will be
provided to all patients in the study who are randomized to Arm B and Arm C.
         5-FU and leucovorin will be dosed and administered as follows.
Arm B           e   5-FU will be administered at a dose of 2000 mg/m 2 as an IV
                    infusion over 24-hours, (+/- 30 minutes), every week for 4 weeks
                    (days 1, 8, 15 and 22), followed by 2 weeks of rest, in a 6 week
                    cycle
                e   Leucovorin will be administered at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 (1 form) or
                    400 mg/m 2 (1+ d racemic form) as an IV infusion over 30 minutes,
                    every week for 4 weeks (days 1, 8, 15 and 22), followed by 2 weeks
                    of rest, in a 6 week cycle
Arm C           e   5-FU will be administered at a dose of 2400 mg/m 2 as an IV
                    infusion over 46-hours, (+/- 60 minutes), every 2 weeks
                e   Leucovorin will be administered at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 (1 form) or
                    400 mg/m 2 (1+ d racemic form) as an IV infusion over 30 minutes,
                    every 2 weeks
         Leucovorin should be reconstituted per the instructions on the package inset or
standard institutional guidelines for reconstitution of leucovorin. Leucovorin should
be administered prior to the 5-FU infusion.
         Actual dose of 5-FU and leucovorin to be administered will be determined by
calculating the patient's body surface area prior to each cycle. A +/- 5% variance in
the calculated total dose will be allowed for ease of dose administration.
                                           - 33 -

        After cycle 1, for the start of each new cycle, a window period of +/- 3 days
will be permitted, and a window period of +/- 1 day will be permitted for the Day 8,
15 and 22 infusions.
        All patients must be premedicated prior to 5-FU and leucovorin infusion with
standard doses of dexamethasone, prochlorperazine or equivalent other anti-emetics
as per standard institutional practices for 5-FU administration.
        G. Important Treatment Considerations with MM-398
        Data from previous MM-398 studies does not show any unexpected toxicity
when compared to the active ingredient, irinotecan, which has been studied
extensively. The warnings and precautions for the use of irinotecan and the treatment
procedures for managing those toxicities are provided below.
                Diarrhea
        Irinotecan can induce both early and late forms of diarrhea that appear to be
mediated by different mechanisms. Early diarrhea (occurring during or shortly after
infusion of irinotecan) is cholinergic in nature. It is usually transient and only
infrequently severe. It may be accompanied by symptoms of rhinitis, increased
salivation, miosis, lacrimation, diaphoresis, flushing, and intestinal hyper-peristalsis
that can cause abdominal cramping. For patients who experienced early cholinergic
symptoms during the previous cycle of MM-398, prophylactic administration of
atropine will be given at the discretion of the investigator.
        Late diarrhea (generally occurring more than 24 hours after administration of
irinotecan) can be life threatening since it may be prolonged and may lead to
dehydration, electrolyte imbalance, or sepsis. Late diarrhea should be treated
promptly with loperamide, and octreotide should be considered if diarrhea persists
after loperamide. Loss of fluids and electrolytes associated with persistent or severe
diarrhea can result in life threatening dehydration, renal insufficiency, and electrolyte
imbalances, and may contribute to cardiovascular morbidity. The risk of infectious
complications is increased, which can lead to sepsis in patients with chemotherapy
induced neutropenia. Patients with diarrhea should be carefully monitored, given
fluid and electrolyte replacement if they become dehydrated, and given antibiotic
support if they develop ileus, fever, or severe neutropenia.
                                           - 34 -

                 Neutropenia
        Deaths due to sepsis following severe neutropenia have been reported in
patients treated with irinotecan. Neutropenic complications should be managed
promptly with antibiotic support. G-CSF may be used to manage neutropenia, with
discretion. Patients, who are known to have experienced Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia
while receiving prior anti-neoplastic therapy, should be monitored carefully and
managed.
                 Hypersensitivity
        Hypersensitivity reactions including severe anaphylactic or anaphylactoid
reactions have been observed. Suspected drugs should be withheld immediately and
aggressive therapy should be given if hypersensitivity reactions occur.
                 Colitis/Ileus
        Cases of colitis complicated by ulceration, bleeding, ileus, and infection have
been observed. Patients experiencing ileus should receive prompt antibiotic support.
                 Thromboembolism
        Thromboembolic events have been observed in patients receiving irinotecan
containing regimens; the specific cause of these events has not been determined.
                 Pregnancy
        The pregnancy category of irinotecan is D. Women of childbearing potential
should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving treatment with
irinotecan. If a pregnancy is reported, treatment should be discontinued. The patient
should be withdrawn from the study, and the pregnancy should be followed until the
outcome becomes known.
                 Care of Intravenous Site
        Care should be taken to avoid extravasation, and the infusion site should be
monitored for signs of inflammation. Should extravasation occur, flushing the site
with sterile saline and applications of ice are recommended.
                 Patients at Particular Risk
        In clinical trials of the weekly schedule of irinotecan, it has been noted that
patients with modestly elevated baseline serum total bilirubin levels (1.0 to
2.0 mg/dL) have had a significantly greater likelihood of experiencing first-cycle
grade 3 or 4 neutropenia than those with bilirubin levels that were less than 1.0 mg/dL
(50.0% [19/38] versus 17.7% [47/226]; p < 0.001). Patients with abnormal
                                           - 35 -

glucuronidation of bilirubin, such as those with Gilbert's syndrome, may also be at
greater risk of myelosuppression when receiving therapy with irinotecan.
                 Acute Infusion Associated Reactions
         Acute infusion-associated reactions characterized by flushing, shortness of
breath, facial swelling, headache, chills, back pain, tightness of chest or throat, and
hypotension have been reported in a small number of patients treated with liposome
drugs. In most patients, these reactions generally resolve within 24 hours after the
infusion is terminated. In some patients, the reaction resolves by slowing the rate of
infusion. Most patients who experienced acute infusion reactions to liposome drugs
are able to tolerate further infusions without complications.
                 Other Toxicity Potential
         MM-398, the new liposome formulation of irinotecan, is different from
irinotecan in unencapsulated formulation, so there is a potential for toxicities other
than those caused by irinotecan. All patients should be monitored closely for signs
and symptoms indicative of drug toxicity, particularly during the initial administration
of treatment.
         H. Dose Modification Requirements
         Dosing may be held for up to 3 weeks from when it was due, to allow for
recovery from toxicity related to the study treatments. If the time required for
recovery from toxicity is more than 3 weeks, the patient should be discontinued from
the study, unless the patient is benefiting from the study treatment, in which case the
patient's continuation on study should be discussed between Investigator and Sponsor
or its designee regarding risks and benefits of continuation.
If a patient's dose is reduced during the study due to toxicity, it should remain
reduced for the duration of the study; dose re-escalation to an earlier dose is not
permitted. Any patient who has 2 dose reductions and experiences an adverse event
that would require a third dose reduction must be discontinued from study treatment.
         Infusion reactions will be monitored. Infusion reactions will be defined
according to the National Cancer Institute CTCAE (Version 4.0) definition of an
allergic reaction/infusion reaction and anaphylaxis, as defined below:
                                          - 36 -

Grade 1: Transient flushing or rash, drug fever <380 C (<100.4 F); intervention not
indicated
Grade 2: Intervention or infusion interruption indicated; responds promptly to
symptomatic treatment (e.g., antihistamines, NSAIDS, narcotics); prophylactic
medications indicated for <24 hrs
Grade 3: Symptomatic bronchospasm, with or without urticaria; parenteral
intervention indicated; allergy-related edema/angioedema; hypotension
Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated
Study site policies or the following treatment guidelines shall be used for the
management of infusion reactions.
Grade 1
      e    Slow infusion rate by 50%
      e    Monitor patient every 15 minutes for worsening of condition
Grade 2
      e    Stop infusion
      e    Administer diphenhydramine hydrochloride 50 mg IV, acetaminophen 650
           mg orally, and oxygen
      e    Resume infusion at 50% of the prior rate once infusion reaction has
           resolved
      e    Monitor patient every 15 minutes for worsening of condition
      e    For all subsequent infusions, premedicate with diphenhydramine
           hydrochloride 25-50 mg IV
Grade 3
      e    Stop infusion and disconnect infusion tubing from patient
      e    Administer diphenhydramine hydrochloride 50 mg IV, dexamethasone 10
           mg IV, bronchodilators for bronchospasm, and other medications or oxygen
           as medically necessary
      e    No further treatment with MM-398 will be permitted
Grade 4
      e    Stop the infusion and disconnect infusion tubing from patient
      e    Administer epinephrine, bronchodilators or oxygen as indicated for
           bronchospasm
      e    Administer diphenhydramine hydrochloride 50 mg IV, dexamethasone 10
           mg IV
      e    Consider hospital admission for observation
      e    No further treatment with MM-398 will be permitted
        For patients who experience a Grade 1 or Grade 2 infusion reaction, future
infusions may be administered at a reduced rate (over 120 minutes), with discretion.
        For patients who experience a second grade 1 or 2 infusion reaction,
administer dexamethasone 10 mg IV. All subsequent infusions should be
premedicated with diphenhydramine hydrochloride 50 mg IV, dexamethasone 10 mg
IV, and acetaminophen 650 mg orally.
                                          - 37 -

          I.  MM-398 Dose Modifications for Hematolo2ical Toxicities
          Prior to initiating a new cycle of therapy, the patients must have:
          -   ANC > 1500/mm 3
          -   Platelet count> 100,000/mm 3
Treatment should be delayed to allow sufficient time for recovery and upon recovery,
treatment should be administered according to the guidelines in the tables below. If
the patient had febrile neutropenia, the ANC must have resolved to > 1500/mm 3 and
the patient must have recovered from infection.
Table: MM-398 Dose Modifications for Neutrophil Count
ANC: cells/mm 3         MM-398 Dose for Next Cycle"
(Worst CTCAE
grade)                     Arm A: Patients Not          Arm A: Patients Homozygous      Arm C: Patients
                             Homozygous for                    for UGT1A1*28 d          Homozygous for
                               UGT1A1*28              Arm C: Patients Not               UGT1A1*28 d
                                                      Homozygous for UGT1A1*28
  ; 1000 to 1999         100% of previous dose        100% of previous dose             100% of previous dose
  (Grade 1 or 2)
  < 1000                Reduce dose by 20 mg/m
                                                 2
                                                      Reduce dose to 60 mg/m 2 for the  Reduce dose to 50
  (Grade 3/4) or        to a minimum dose of 80       first occurrence and to 50mg/M
                                                                                     2
                                                                                        mg/m2 for the first
  febrile neutropenia   mg/m2                         for the second occurrence ' d     occurrence and to 40
                                                                                        mg/m 2 for the second
                                                                                        occurrence e,
a All dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity
b Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 80 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn
from the study
c Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 50 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn
from the study
d Patients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28 and
                                                                    have had their dose increased
should be dose reduced per guidelines for patients who are not homozygous for
UGT1A1*28
  Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 40 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn
from the study
                                               - 38 -

Table: MM-398 Dose Modifications for Other Hematologic Toxicity
                 MM-398 Dose for Next Cycle"
     Worst          Arm A: Patients Not   Arm A: Patients Homozygous for        Arm C: Patients
    Toxicity          Homozygous for      UGT1A1*28 d                           Homozygous for
    CTCAE               UGT1A1*28         Arm C: Patients Not                   UGT1A1*28 d
     Grade                                Homozygous for UGT1A1*28
  < Grade 2      100% of previous dose    100% of previous dose                 100% of previous dose
  Grade 3/4      Reduce dose by 20 mg/m 2 Reduce dose to 60 mg/m 2 for the      Reduce dose to    50 mg/m 2
                                                                         2
                 to a minimum dose of 80  first occurrence and to 50mg/m for    for the first occurrence
                 mg/m 2 b                 the second occurrence' d              and to 40 mg/m 2 for the
                                                                                second occurrence    e,d
aAll  dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity
bPatients who require a further dose reduction beyond 80 mg/m2
                                                                     must be withdrawn
     from the study
  Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 50 mg/m2 must be withdrawn from
     the study
dPatients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28 and have had their
                                                                         dose increased should
be dose reduced per guidelines for patients who are not homozygous for UGT1A1*28
  Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 40 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn from
the study
         J. MM-398 Dose Modifications for Non-Hematolo2ical Toxicities
         Treatment should be delayed until diarrhea resolves to < Grade 1, and for
other Grade 3 or 4 non-hematological toxicities, until they resolve to Grade 1 or
baseline. Guidelines for dose adjustment of MM-398 for drug related diarrhea and
other Grade 3 or 4 non-hematological toxicities are provided below. Infusion
reactions should be handled as described above.
                                          - 39 -

Table: MM-398 Dose Modifications for Diarrhea
                                         MM-398 Dose for Next Cyclea
                             Arm A: Patients Not   Arm A: Patients                Arm C: Patients
  Worst Toxicity CTCAE       Homozygous for        Homozygous for                 Homozygous for
           Grade             UGT1A1*28             UGT1A1*28 d                    UGT1A1*28 d
                                                   Arm C: Patients Not
                                                   Homozygous for
                                                   UGT1A1*28
Grade 1 or 2 (2-3 stools/day 100% of previous dose  100% of previous dose         100% of previous dose
> pretreatment or 4-6
stools/day > pretreatment)
Grade 3 (7-9 stools/day >    Reduce dose by 20     Reduce dose to 60 mg/m 2 for   Reduce dose to    50 mg/m 2
pretreatment) or Grade 4     mg/m2 to a minimum    the first occurrence and to 50 for the first occurrence
(>10 stools/day >            dose of 80 mg/m 2 b   mgm/2 for the second           and to 40 mg/m2 for the
pretreatment)                                      occurrence' d                  second occurrence e, d
a All dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity
bPatients who require a further dose reduction beyond 80 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn
     from the study
c Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 50 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn
     from the study
d Patients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28 and have had their dose increased
should be dose reduced per guidelines for patients who are not homozygous for
UGT1A1*28
  Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 40 mg/m 2 must be withdrawn
from the study
                                            - 40 -

Table: MM-398 Dose Modifications for Non-Hematological Toxicities Other than
Diarrhea, Asthenia and Grade 3 Anorexiad
                             MM-398 Dose for Next Cycle"
                              Arm A: Patients Not    Arm A: Patients              Arm C: Patients
  Worst Toxicity CTCAE          Homozygous for       Homozygous for               Homozygous for
           Grade                  UGT1A1*28          UGT1A1*28e                   UGT1A1*28e
                                                     Arm C: Patients Not
                                                     Homozygous for
                                                     UGT1A1*28
                             100% of previous dose    100% of previous dose       100% of previous dose
Grade 1 or 2
                                                                                                           2
                                                     Reduce dose to 60 mg/m for
                                                                                2
                                                                                  Reduce dose to 50 mg/m
                             Reduce2 dose by 20
Grade 3 or 4 (except nausea  mg/rn        by 20      the first occurrence and to  for the first occurrence
and vomiting)                              n bm      50mg/M 2 for the second      and to 40 mg/m2 for the
                             dose of 80 mg/rn b      occurrence    c, e           second occurrence    f,e
                                                                                  Optimize anti-emetic
                                                     Optimize anti-emetic therapy therapy AND reduce
Grade 3 or 4 nausea and or   Optimize anti-emetic    AND reduce dose to 60        dose to 50 mg/m2; if the
vomiting despite anti emetic therapy AND reduce      mg/m 2 ; if the patient is   patient is already
therapy                      dose by 20 mg/m to a    already receiving 60 mg/m2,  receiving 50 mg/m2
                             minimum dose of 80      reduce dose to 50 mg/m 2     reduce dose to 40 mg/m2
                                                                                   , e
a All dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity
b Patients  who require a further dose reduction beyond 80 mg/m2 must be withdrawn
     from the study
c Patients who require a further dose reduction beyond 50 mg/m2 must be withdrawn
     from the study
d Asthenia and Grade 3 Anorexia do
                                         not require dose modification
  Patients who are homozygous for UGT1A1*28 and have had their dose increased
  should be dose reduced per guidelines for patients who are not homozygous for
  UGT1A1*28
fPatients who require a further dose reduction beyond 40 mg/m2 must be withdrawn
  from the study
         K. 5-FU and Leucovorin Dose Modifications (Arm B and Arm C)
         Guidelines for 5-FU dose modifications are provided below. No dose
adjustments for toxicity are required for leucovorin. Leucovorin must be given
immediately prior to each 5-FU dose; hence, if 5-FU dose is held, leucovorin dose
should be held as well. In case a patient experiences an infusion reaction, either
institutional guidelines or the guidelines provided for MM-398 infusion reaction
management should be used.
                                             - 41 -

         L. 5-FU Dose Modifications for Hematological Toxicities
         Prior to the next dose in a cycle or prior to initiating a new cycle of therapy,
the patients must have:
         -    ANC > 1500/mm      3
         -    WBC > 3500/mm 3
         -    Platelet count > 75 000/mm 3 (according to the European summary of
              product characteristics for 5-FU, the platelets should have recovered to >
              100,000/mm 3 prior to initiating therapy)
         Treatment should be delayed to allow sufficient time for recovery and upon
recovery, treatment should be administered according to the guidelines provided in
the table below. The duration of the cycles is fixed at 6 weeks, and if a patient is
unable to receive the D8, D15 or D22 dose due to toxicity, the dose will be considered
as skipped.
Table: 5-FU Dose Modifications for Hematological Toxicities (Arm B & C)
  ANC (cells/mm 3)                    Platelets         5-FU Dose for D8, D15,     5-FU Dose for Next
                                               3                   D22a                  Cyclea
                                    (cells/mm )
  > 1000              and   > 50,000                    100% of previous dose    100% of previous dose
  500 - 999           Or    <50,000 - 25,000            Hold; when resolved,     Reduce dose by 25%b
                                                        reduce dose by 25% b
  < 500 or febrile     Or    < 25,000 or                Hold dose; when          Reduce dose by 25%  b
  neutropenia                thrombocytopenia with      resolved, reduce dose by
                             bleeding                   25%b
a All dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity
bPatients   who require more than 2 dose reductions must be withdrawn from the study
         M. 5-FU Dose Modifications for Non-Hematolo2ical Toxicities
         Treatment should be delayed until all Grade 3 or 4 non-hematological
toxicities resolve to Grade 1 or baseline. Guidelines for dose adjustment of 5-FU
related toxicities are provided below. The duration of the cycles is fixed at 6 weeks,
and if a patient is unable to receive the D8, D15 or D22 dose due to toxicity, the dose
will be considered as skipped.
                                                 - 42 -

Table: 5-FU Dose Modifications for Non-Hematological Toxicities Other than
             Asthenia and Grade 3 Anorexia' (Aim B & C)
Worst Toxicity CTCAE              5-FU Dose for D8, D15, D22a            5-FU Dose for Next Cyclea
Grade
Grade 1 or 2                  100% of previous dose, except for    100% of previous dose, except for
                              Grade 2 hand foot syndrome, Grade   Grade 2 hand and foot syndrome, Grade
                              2 cardiac toxicity, or any grade    2 cardiac toxicity, or any grade
                              neurocerebellar toxicity            neurocerebellar toxicity
Grade 2 hand foot syndrome    Reduce dose by 25% b                Reduce dose by 25% b
Any grade neurocerebellar or  Discontinue therapy                 Discontinue therapy
> Grade 2 cardiac toxicity
                              Hold; when resolved, reduce dose by Reduce dose by 25%bexcept for Grade
Grade 3 or 4                  25% b, except for Grade 3 or 4 hand 3 or 4 hand foot syndrome
                              foot syndrome
Grade 3 or 4 hand foot        Discontinue therapy                 Discontinue therapy
syndrome
a All dose modifications should be based on the worst preceding toxicity
bPatients  who require more than 2 dose reductions must be withdrawn from the study
c Asthenia and Grade 3 Anorexia do not require dose modification
         N. Other Toxicities Requiring Special Attention
         For both 5-FU and MM-398 treatment arms, QTc prolongation that occurs in
the setting of diarrhea induced electrolyte imbalance should be treated by with
appropriate electrolyte repletion. Once the underlying abnormality is corrected and
the ECG abnormalities have reversed, treatment may continue under careful
monitoring and with appropriate dose modification for diarrhea as described above.
         0. Concomitant Therapy
All concurrent medical conditions and complications of the underlying malignancy
will be treated at the discretion of the Investigator according to acceptable local
standards of medical care. Patients should receive analgesics, antiemetics, antibiotics,
anti-pyretics, and blood products as necessary. Although warfarin-type anticoagulant
therapies are permitted, careful monitoring of coagulation parameters is imperative, in
order to avoid complications of any possible drug interactions. All concomitant
medications, including transfusions of blood products, will be recorded on the
appropriate case report form.
         Guidelines for treating certain medical conditions are discussed below;
however, institutional guidelines for the treatment of these conditions may also be
used. The concomitant therapies that warrant special attention are discussed below.
                                             - 43  -

        Antiemetic Medications
        Dexamethasone and a 5-HT3 blocker (e.g., ondansetron or granisetron) will be
administered to all patients as premedications unless contraindicated for the individual
patient. Antiemetics will also be prescribed as clinically indicated during the study
period.
        Colony Stimulating Factors
        Use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSF) is permitted to treat
patients with neutropenia or neutropenic fever; prophylactic use of G-CSF will be
permitted only in those patients who have had at least one episode of grade 3 or 4
neutropenia or neutropenic fever while receiving study therapy or have had
documented grade 3 or 4 neutropenia or neutropenic fever while receiving prior anti
neoplastic therapy.
        Therapy for Diarrhea
        Acute diarrhea and abdominal cramps, developing during or within 24 hours
after MM-398 administration, may occur as part of a cholinergic syndrome. The
syndrome will be treated with atropine. Prophylactic or therapeutic administration of
atropine should be considered in patients experiencing cholinergic symptoms during
the study.
        Diarrhea can be debilitating and on rare occasions is potentially life
threatening. Guidelines developed by an ASCO panel for treating chemotherapy
induced diarrhea are abstracted below.
Table: Recommendations for Management of Chemotherapy Induced Diarrhea
           Clinical Presentation                                  Intervention
Diarrhea, any grade                             Oral loperamide (2 mg every 2 hours for
                                                irinotecan induced diarrhea; 2 mg every 4
                                                hours for 5-FU induced diarrhea): continue
                                                until diarrhea-free for > 12 hours
Diarrhea persists on loperamide for > 24        Oral fluoroquinolone x 7 days
hours
Diarrhea persists on loperamide for > 48        Stop loperamide; hospitalize patient;
hours                                           administer IV fluids
ANC < 500 cells/tL, regardless of fever or      Oral fluoroquinolone (continue until
diarrhea                                        resolution of neutropenia)
Fever with persistent diarrhea, even in the     Oral fluoroquinolone (continue until
absence of neutropenia                          resolution of fever and diarrhea)
                                         - 44 -

        The synthetic octapeptide octreotide has been shown to be effective in the
control of diarrhea induced by fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy regimens when
administered as an escalating dose by continuous infusion or subcutaneous injection.
Octreotide can be administered at doses ranging from 100 micrograms twice daily to
500 micrograms three times daily, with a maximum tolerated dose of 2000
micrograms three times daily in a 5-day regimen. Patients should be advised to drink
water copiously throughout treatment.
        Other Treatments
        Symptomatic treatment for other toxicities should be per institutional
guidelines. Prevention of alopecia with cold cap or of stomatitis with iced mouth
rinses is allowed.
        P. Prohibited Therapy
        The following drugs are noted in the irinotecan prescribing information as
interacting with irinotecan: St. John's Wort, CYP3A4 inducing anticonvulsants
(phenytoin, phenobarbital, and carbamazepine), ketoconazole, itraconazole,
troleandomycin, erythromycin, diltiazem and verapamil. Treatment with these agents
and any other that interact with irinotecan, should be avoided wherever possible.
Because 5-FU interacts with warfarin, caution should be exercised if concomitant use
is necessary. Refer to the country specific package inserts of 5-FU and leucovorin for
any other drug interactions.
        The following therapies are not permitted during the trial:
        "    Other anti-neoplastic therapy, including cytotoxics, targeted agents,
             endocrine therapy or other antibodies;
        "    Potentially curative radiotherapy; palliative radiotherapy is permitted; and
        "    Any other investigational therapy is not permitted.
        Q.   Laboratory Procedures
         Complete Blood Count
        A complete blood count (CBC) will be performed locally, and must include a
white blood count (WBC) and differential, hemoglobin, hematocrit and platelet count.
        Serum Chemistry
        Serum chemistry panel will be performed centrally. Additionally, chemistry
may also be assessed locally, and local lab results may be used for enrollment and
                                           - 45 -

treatment decisions, if central lab results are not available. If local lab results are used
for enrollment, then local lab results must be used for all subsequent treatment
decisions. Serum chemistry will include electrolytes (sodium, potassium, chloride and
bicarbonate), BUN, serum creatinine, glucose, direct and total bilirubin, AST, ALT,
alkaline phosphatase, LDH, uric acid, total protein, albumin, calcium, magnesium and
phosphate.
         CA 19-9
         CA 19-9 levels will be measured centrally for all patients.
         Pregnancy Test
         All women of child bearing potential must undergo a urine or serum
     pregnancy test.
         UGT1A1*28 Allele
         A whole blood sample will be collected from all patients at baseline and sent
to the central lab to test for UGT1A1*28 allele status. Local lab results may be used
if the central lab results are not available at the time of randomization.
         Pharmacokinetic Assessments
         PK analysis will be done centrally. Plasma PK samples will be collected in
Cycle 1, from all patients randomized in this study, at the following timepoints:
     "   Arm A: just prior to infusion, during infusion (at 80 to 90 minutes after start of
         infusion), between 2 and a half and four hours after the start of infusion and on
         C1D8
     "   Arm B: one sample at the end of 5-FU infusion (C1D2)
     "   Arm C: just prior to MM-398 infusion, during MM-398 infusion (at 80 to 90
         minutes after start of infusion), between 2 and a half and four hours after the
         start of MM-398 infusion, at the end of 5-FU infusion and on C1D8
         In addition, a PK sample will be collected in Cycle 1, any time between 8 and
72 hours following administration of MM-398, from patients randomized to Arm A
and Arm C, who provide an additional consent for collection of this sample.
         R. Pain Assessment and Anal2esic Consumption
         Pain assessment and analgesic consumption diaries will be provided to the
patients for recording their pain intensity daily on a visual analogue scale and to
document their daily analgesic use.
                                            - 46 -

           S. EORTC-OLO-C30
           Quality of life will be assessed by the EORTC-QLQ-C30 instrument. The
   EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a reliable and valid measure of the quality of life of cancer
   patients in multicultural clinical research settings. It incorporates nine multi-item
   scales: five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); three
   symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting); and a global health and
   quality-of-life scale. Several single-item symptom measures are also included.
           Patients will be required to complete the EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire at
   timepoints outlined in the Schedule of Assessment. On days that the patient is to
   receive study drug, assessments should be completed prior to study drug
   administration. Only those patients, for whom validated translations of the EORTC
   QLQ-C30 questionnaire are available, will be required to complete the questionnaire.
           T. Overall Survival/Post Study Follow-up
           Overall survival data will be collected after a patient completes the 30 day
   follow-up visit, every 1 month (+/- 1 week) from the date of the 30 day follow-up
   visit. Post-discontinuation data to be collected will include: the date of disease
   progression (if not already documented; if patient discontinued from study treatment
   for reasons other than objective disease progression, patient should continue to
   undergo tumor assessment every 6 weeks, until commencement of new anti
   neoplastic therapy or progressive disease); documentation of any anticancer treatment
   patient has received including the dates of any post-discontinuation systemic therapy,
   radiotherapy, or surgical intervention; and the date of death. All patients must be
   followed-up until death or study closure, whichever occurs first.
           U. Determining the Severity and Relatedness of Adverse Events
           Each adverse event will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE V 4.0, which
may be found at http://ctep.cancer.gov/reporting/ctc.html. For events not listed in the
CTCAE, severity will be designated as mild, moderate, severe or life threatening or fatal,
which correspond to Grades 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively on the NCI CTCAE, with the
following definitions:
           *    Mild: an event not resulting in disability or incapacity and which resolves
                without intervention;
                                             - 47 -

         "   Moderate: an event not resulting in disability or incapacity but which
             requires intervention;
         "   Severe: an event resulting in temporary disability or incapacity and which
             requires intervention;
         "   Life-threatening: an event in which the patient was at risk of death at the
             time of the event
         "   Fatal: an event that results in the death of the patient
The Investigator must attempt to determine if there exists reasonable possibility that
an adverse event is related to the use of the study drug. This relationship should be
described as related or non-related.
         V. Analysis of the Overall Survival
         Overall survival (OS) is the primary endpoint of this study. Overall survival is
defined as the time from the date of patient randomization to date of death or the date
last known alive. For each patient who is not known to have died as of the data
inclusion cut-off date for a particular analysis, OS will be censored for that analysis at
the date of last contact prior to the data cut-off date.
         The study primary analysis will involve two pair-wise comparisons of survival
between the study treatments, in the ITT population using un-stratified Log Rank
Test. The testing will be according to the Bonferroni-Holm procedure which strongly
controls the family-wise error rate at 0.05 (two-sided) level [25]:
          Reject  HD  :SA(t) = SB(t), i.e. no effect of MM-398 monotherapy relative to
control, if the logrank p-value for this test is less than 0.025 or if the logrank p-value
for this test is less than 0.05 and the logrank p-value for the comparison between Arm
B and Arm C is less than 0.025.
         Reject H> :Sc(t) = SB(t), i.e. no effect of MM-398 combination therapy relative
to control, if the logrank p-value for this test is less than 0.025 or if the logrank
p-value for this test is less than 0.05 and the logrank p-value for the comparison
between Arm A and Arm B is less than 0.025.
         Kaplan-Meier analyses will be performed on each treatment group to obtain
nonparametric estimates of the survival function and the median survival time.
Corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be computed using the log-log method.
                                              - 48 -

Cox proportional hazards modeling will be used to estimate hazard ratios and
corresponding 95% confidence intervals.
         The following additional sensitivity analyses will be carried out for overall
survival on the ITT population (except as indicated) to evaluate the robustness of the
primary analysis results:
         log-rank comparisons of treatments on the PP population
         stratified log rank analyses, using randomization stratification factors [with
hazard ratio estimates from stratified Cox modeling]
         Wilcoxon comparisons of treatments
         Cox regression model with stepwise selection (p value to enter < 0.25, p-value
to remain < 0.15) of model terms where treatment and the prognostic factors (noted
below) are candidates for inclusion
         univariate analyses to evaluate potential independent prognostic factors using
Cox regression
         subgroup analyses to examine differences in the effects of treatment in
different segments of the study population.
         Repeat all analyses (primary and sensitivity) with only patients who enrolled
under protocol Version 2 (and later)
         Prognostic factors to be examined include: baseline KPS, baseline albumin,
ethnicity, geographic location, disease stage at diagnosis, original tumor location,
number of prior chemotherapy treatments, prior radiotherapy, prior surgery, time
since last treatment, best response on prior treatment, baseline CA 19-9, gender and
age.
         W. Secondary Efficacy Analyses
         Progression Free Survival
            PFS is defined as the number of months from the date of randomization to
the date of death or progression, whichever occurred earlier (per RECIST 1.1). If
neither death nor progression is observed during the study, PFS data will be censored
at the last valid tumor assessment.
         PFS will be compared between the treatment groups using paired un-stratified
log-rank tests. The PFS curves will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier estimates.
Estimates of the hazard ratios and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be
obtained using Cox proportional hazard models. Stratified analyses will also be carried
                                           - 49 -

out using the randomization stratification factors. Treatment effects adjusting for
stratification variables and other prognostic covariates will be explored. In addition,
different censoring and missing data imputing methods may be used to perform
sensitivity analyses on PFS. Methodology for the sensitivity analyses will be fully
specified in the Statistical Analysis Plan.
The analyses will be performed for ITT, PP and EP populations.
         Time to Treatment Failure
            Time to treatment failure is defined as time from randomization to either
disease progression, death or study discontinuation due to toxicity. Kaplan-Meier
analyses as specified for analyses of progression free survival will be performed for
time to treatment failure.
The analyses will be performed for ITT, PP and EP populations.
         Objective Response Rate
          The tumor assessment related to ORR will be determined using RECIST v1. 1.
If the Sponsor requires an independent review of the radiological assessments to
support a new drug application or for any other reason, the response status of all
patients may be reviewed by an independent panel of clinicians and may be reviewed
by the Sponsor or its designee. In case of a discrepancy between the assessment of the
independent panel and that of the investigator, the independent panel's assessment will
take precedence.
          Objective response rate (ORR) for each treatment group will be calculated
combining the number of patients with a best overall response of confirmed CR or PR
per RECIST. The ORR is the best response recorded from randomization until
progression or end of study. The number and percentage of patients experiencing
objective response (confirmed CR + PR) at the time of analysis will be presented and
the 95% confidence interval for the proportion will be calculated. Objective response
rates from the treatment arms will be compared using pair-wise Fisher's Exact Tests.
The analyses will be performed for ITT, PP and EP populations.
         Tumor Marker Response Analysis
         CA 19-9 serum levels will be measured within 7 days before the start of
treatment (baseline), and subsequently every 6 weeks. Tumor marker response of
CA19-9 will be evaluated by the change of CA19-9 serum levels. Response is defined
as a decrease of 50% of CA 19-9 in relation to the baseline level at least once during
                                          - 50 -

the treatment period. Only patients with elevated baseline CA 19-9 value (> 30 U/mL)
will be included in the calculation of tumor marker response rate.
         Patient Reported Outcome Analyses
         Analysis of the EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaires will be performed in
accordance with the EORTC guidelines [22].
         Safety Analysis
         Treatment emergent adverse events will be presented by treatment arm, by
patient, by NCI CTCAE grade and by MedDRA system organ class (SOC). Separate
listings will be presented for total adverse events, serious adverse events, adverse
events related to the study drugs and Grade 3 and 4 adverse events. Laboratory data
will be presented by treatment arm and by visit. Abnormal laboratory values will be
assessed according to NCI CTCAE grade, where possible. Evaluation of QTc will be
done based upon Fridericia's correction method. CTCAE criteria will be applied to
the QTcF (i.e. Grade 3 = QTc > 500 msec). All the safety analyses will be performed
by treatment arm, treatment cycle and week, where appropriate. Overall safety will
also be evaluated by grade across cycles, SOC and extent of exposure. Additionally,
safety analyses will include a comparison between the treatment arms in all patients in
the Safety Population:
         e   Number of blood transfusions required
         e   Proportion of patients requiring G-CSF
         e   Adverse events resulting in dose delay or modification
         Pharmacokinetics Analysis
         Pharmacokinetic data will be collected on all patients randomized to either of
the MM-398 arms. Plasma concentration-time data for MM-398 will be analyzed
using population pharmacokinetic methods. Pharmacokinetic parameters will be
estimated by Non-Linear Mixed Effects Modeling using NONMEM*, Version 7,
Level 1.0 (ICON Development Solutions, Dublin, Ireland). PK parameters will
include plasma   Cmax, Tmax, AUC (area under the concentration curve), clearance,
volume of distribution, and terminal elimination half-life. The effects of patient
specific factors (age, race, gender, body weight, hepatic and renal function measures,
ECOG value, etc.) on pharmacokinetic parameters will be evaluated. Population
PK/PD methods will be used to assess the relationships between drug exposure and
efficacy and/or toxicity (e.g. neutropenia, diarrhea) parameters. Additional
                                          -51  -

exploratory analysis may be performed on the PK samples, to help clarify any safety,
efficacy or PK issues related to MM-398 that arise during the course of the study.
Concentration levels of 5-FU will be summarized descriptively.
Endnotes
        While the invention has been described in connection with specific
embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications
and this application is intended to cover any variations, uses, or adaptations of the
invention following, in general, the principles of the invention and including such
departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice
within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential
features set forth herein. The disclosure of each and every US, international, or other
patent or patent application or publication referred to herein is hereby incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
                                          - 52 -

Claims
What is claimed is:
1.      A method of treating pancreatic cancer in a human patient, the method
comprising: administering to the patient an affective amount of liposomal irinotecan,
wherein the method comprises at least one cycle, wherein the cycle is a period of 3
weeks, and wherein for each cycle the liposomal irinotecan is administered on day 1
of the cycle at a dose of 120 mg/m 2 , except if the patient is homozygous for the
UGT1A1*28 allele, wherein liposomal irinotecan is administered on day 1 of cycle 1
at a dose of 80 mg/m 2.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the dose of liposomal irinotecan administered
to the patient homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is increased after one cycle in
increments of 20 mg/m 2, up to a maximum of 120 mg/m 2 .
3.      A method of treating pancreatic cancer in a human patient, the method
comprising co-administering to the patient an effective amount each of liposomal
irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and leucovorin, wherein the method comprises at
least one cycle, wherein the cycle is a period of 2 weeks, and wherein for each cycle:
        (a)     liposomal irinotecan is administered to patients not homozygous for
the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of each cycle at a dose of 80 mg/m 2 and to patients
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 and
on day 1 of each subsequent cycle at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 or 80 mg/m 2;
        (b)     5-FU is administered at a dose of 2400 mg/m 2 ; and
        (c)     leucovorin is administered at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 (1 form) or 400
mg/m 2 (1 + d racemic form).
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein, in each cycle, the liposomal irinotecan is
administered prior to the leucovorin and the leucovorin is administered prior to the 5
FU.
5.       The method of claim 3 or claim 4, wherein after cycle 1 the dose of liposomal
irinotecan administered to the patient homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele is
increased to 80 mg/m 2.
                                          - 53 -

6.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the liposomal
irinotecan is administered intravenously over 90 minutes.
7.      The method of any one of claims 3-6, wherein the 5-FU is administered
intravenously over 46 hours.
8.      The method of any one of claims 3-7, wherein the leucovorin is administered
intravenously over 30 minutes.
9.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein, prior to each
administration of liposomal irinotecan, the patient is pre-medicated with
dexamethasone and/or a 5-HT3 antagonist or another anti-emetic.
10.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pancreatic cancer
is an exocrine pancreatic cancer selected from the group consisting of acinar cell
carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal
papillary-mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma,
pancreatoblastoma, serous cystadenocarcinoma, and solid and pseudopapillary
tumors.
11.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the liposomal
irinotecan is irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection.
12.     A formulation of irinotecan for co-administration with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)
and leucovorin in at least one cycle, wherein the cycle is a period of 2 weeks, the
formulation of irinotecan is a liposomal formulation of irinotecan, and wherein:
        (a)      liposomal irinotecan is administered to patients not homozygous for
the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of each cycle at a dose of 80 mg/m 2 and to patients
homozygous for the UGT1A1*28 allele on day 1 of cycle 1 at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 and
on day 1 of each subsequent cycle at a dose of 60 mg/m 2 or 80 mg/m 2;
        (b)      5-FU is administered at a dose of 2400 mg/m 2 ; and
        (c)      leucovorin is administered at a dose of 200 mg/m 2 (1 form) or 400
mg/m 2 (1 + d racemic form).
                                          - 54 -

13.      The formulation of irinotecan of claim 12 wherein after cycle 1 the dose of
liposomal irinotecan administered to the patient homozygous for the UGT1A1*28
allele is increased to 80 mg/m 2.
14.       The formulation of claim 12 or claim 13, wherein, in each cycle, the
liposomal irinotecan is administered prior to the leucovorin and the leucovorin is
administered prior to the 5-FU.
15.      The formulation of any one of claims 12-14, wherein the liposomal irinotecan
is administered intravenously over 90 minutes.
16.      The formulation of any one of claims 12-15, wherein the 5-FU is administered
intravenously over 46 hours.
17.      The formulation of any one of claims 12-16, wherein the leucovorin is
administered intravenously over 30 minutes.
18.      The formulation of any one of claims 12-17, wherein, prior to each
administration of liposomal irinotecan, the patient is pre-medicated with
dexamethasone and/or a 5-HT3 antagonist or another anti-emetic.
19.      The formulation of any one of claims 12-18, wherein the pancreatic cancer is
an exocrine pancreatic cancer selected from the group consisting of acinar cell
carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal
papillary-mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma,
pancreatoblastoma, serous cystadenocarcinoma, and solid and pseudopapillary
tumors.
20.      The formulation of any one of claims 12-19 wherein the liposomal
formulation of irinotecan is irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection.
21.      A method of improving chemotherapy outcomes by increasing tumor
vascularity, the method comprising administering to a patient having a tumor an
                                         - 55 -

amount of irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection effective to increase
tumor vascularity and concomitantly administering an effective amount of at least one
anti-cancer agent other than irinotecan to the patient.
22.     Irinotecan sucrose octasulfate salt liposome injection for concomitant
administration to a patient having a tumor of 1) an amount of irinotecan sucrose
octasulfate salt liposome injection effective to increase tumor vascularity and 2) an
effective amount of at least one anti-cancer agent other than irinotecan.
23.     A kit for treating pancreatic cancer in a human patient, the kit comprising a
dose of liposomal irinotecan and instructions for using liposomal irinotecan in the
method of claim 1 or 2.
24.     A kit for treating pancreatic cancer in a human patient, the kit comprising a
dose of each liposomal irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and leucovorin, and
instructions for using liposomal irinotecan, 5-FU, and leucovorin in the method of
claim 3 or 4.
25.     The kit of claim 24, wherein the pancreatic cancer is an exocrine pancreatic
cancer selected from the group consisting of acinar cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma,
adenosquamous carcinoma, giant cell tumor, intraductal papillary-mucinous neoplasm
(IPMN), mucinous cystadenocarcinoma, pancreatoblastoma, serous
cystadenocarcinoma, and solid and pseudopapillary tumors.
26.     The kit of any one of claims 23-25, wherein the liposomal irinotecan is MM
398.
27.     The method of any one of claims 1-11, or the formulation of any one of claims
13-21, wherein the co-administration results in therapeutic synergy or in a positive
outcome in the patient, and wherein the positive outcome is pCR, CR, PR, or SD.
                                         - 56 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
