                                       ABSTRACT
        Systems and methods for delivery of radiotherapy in conjunction with magnetic
resonance imaging in which various conductors, shields and shims may be used to solve
issues occurring when radiation therapy equipment is placed in the vicinity of an magnetic
resonance imaging system.

WO 2014/164821               PCT/US201-4/023556
                         1/8
                      co
               C)C
                   CC
                                 C:U-

       SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RADIOTHERAPY WITH MAGNETIC
                                   RESONANCE IMAGING
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
         [0001]     The present application claims priority to U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No.
13/801,680, filed March 13, 2013, entitled "Systems and Methods for Radiotherapy With
Magnetic Resonance Imaging," the filing date and full disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
         [0002]     The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for the delivery of
radiotherapy in conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging.
                                        BACKGROUND
         [0003]     It is desirable to combine radiation therapy with repetitive real-time
imaging using a magnetic resonance imaging system (MRI) in order to better locate and
treat therapy targets while sparing nearby healthy tissue. While MRIs and radiation
treatment systems such as linear accelerators or radioisotope beams have operated
separately from one another for quite some time, combining the two technologies presents
many significant technological challenges. Examples of such challenges include the
magnetic fields and eddy currents generated in ferromagnetic and conductive radiotherapy
equipment through the MRI's main and gradient magnets, both of which can destroy an
MRI's ability to provide quality images.
                                          SUMMARY
         [0004]     Disclosed herein are systems and methods for combining radiotherapy
with magnetic resonance imaging.
                                                1

        [0005]      In one embodiment, a system may include a magnetic resonance imaging
system, a gantry, one or more radiation therapy heads fixed to the gantry, one or more
collimating devices associated with the one or more heads, including a plurality of leaves,
one or more leaf drive motors for moving the leaves, the one or more leaf drive motors
including one or more position sensors, and a magnetic shield substantially surrounding the
one or more position sensors, one or more permanent magnets adjacent the one or more leaf
drive motors, the one or more permanent magnets oriented so as to counteract the MRI's
main magnetic field, and one or more additional conductive elements disposed around the
gantry in a substantially symmetrical manner. The one or more additional conductive
elements may have a shape, volume or material permeability designed to substantially
match the shape, volume or material permeability of the collimating devices. In addition,
the one or more additional conductive elements may be substantially similar to the outer
housings of the collimating devices. In one embodiment, only one radiation therapy head is
fixed to the gantry and only one collimating device is associated with the one radiation
therapy head and the one or more additional conductive elements is a single conductive
element extending substantially around the portion of the gantry not occupied by the one
collimating device. Furthermore, the magnetic shield may be made of steel and may be
cylindrical in shape.
        [0006]      In another embodiment, a system may include a magnetic resonance
imaging system, a gantry, one or more radiation therapy heads fixed to the gantry, one or
more collimating devices associated with the one or more heads and one or more additional
conductive elements disposed around the gantry in a substantially symmetrical manner.
The one or more additional conductive elements may be additional collimating devices or
may be substantially similar to the outer housings of the collimating devices. In addition,
the one or more additional conductive elements may have a shape, volume or material
                                              2

permeability designed to substantially match the shape, volume or material permeability of
the collimating devices. In another embodiment, the one or more radiation therapy heads
may be three radioisotopic sources, and the one or more additional conductive elements
may be three conductors substantially similar to the outer housings of the collimating
devices. In yet another embodiment, only one radiation therapy head is fixed to the gantry
and only one collimating device is associated with the one radiation therapy head and the
one or more additional conductive elements comprises a single conductive element
extending substantially around the portion of the gantry not occupied by the one collimating
device.
         [0007]     In still another embodiment, the system may include a magnetic
resonance imaging system, a gantry, one or more radiation therapy heads fixed to the
gantry, one or more collimating devices associated with the one or more heads, including a
plurality of leaves, one or more leaf drive motors for moving the leaves, the one or more
leaf drive motors including one or more position sensors and a magnetic shield substantially
surrounding the one or more position sensors. The magnetic shield may have a cylindrical
shape and may be made out of ferromagnetic material, such as steel.
         [0008]     In another embodiment, the system may include a magnetic resonance
imaging system, a gantry, one or more radiation therapy heads fixed to the gantry, one or
more collimating devices associated with the one or more heads, including a plurality of
leaves, one or more leaf drive motors for moving the leaves and one or more permanent
magnets adjacent the one or more leaf drive motors, the one or more permanent magnets
oriented so as to counteract the MRI's main magnetic field. Permanent magnets may be
placed on either side of the one or more leaf drive motors and may be made from
Neodymium.
                                               3

         [0009]     These and other features, aspects, and advantages of the present
disclosure will become better understood with reference to the following description and
claims.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
         [0010]     Features, aspects, and implementations of the disclosure are described in
conjunction with the attached drawings, in which:
         [0011]     FIG. 1 is a simplified diagram illustrating aspects of a radiation therapy
device operating in conjunction with a magnetic resonance imaging system consistent with
implementations of the current subject matter;
         [0012]     FIG. 2 is a simplified diagram illustrating an example of a treatment
system consistent with implementations of the current subject matter;
         [0013]     FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary collimating device, specifically a multi
leaf collimator;
         [0014]     FIG. 4 illustrates one example of an arrangement of conductive elements
consistent with implementations of the current subject matter;
         [0015]     FIG. 5A is a simplified diagram illustrating a leaf motor combined with
an example magnetic shield consistent with implementations of the current subject matter;
         [0016]     FIG. 5B is a simplified representation of the effect of a magnetic shield
on an MRI's main magnetic field;
         [0017]     FIG. 6 is a simplified illustration of permanent magnets being placed
adjacent a bank of leaf motors consistent with implementations of the current subject
matter;
         [0018]     FIG. 7 illustrates an exemplary magnetic orientation of permanent
magnets with respect to an MRI's main magnetic field consistent with implementations of
the current subject matter; and
                                                 4

         [0019]     FIG. 8 shows a process flow chart illustrating features of a method
consistent with implementations of the current subject matter.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0020]      Disclosed herein are systems and methods for combining radiotherapy
with magnetic resonance imaging. FIG. 1 is a simplified schematic view of an
implementation of a radiation therapy system including a radiation therapy head 104
mounted on a gantry 106, which can rotate to different positions to enable radiation
delivery from different angles. The exemplary system depicted in FIG. 1 also includes an
MRI 102, which may be used for real-time imaging during radiation therapy and maybe of
the split or open type of MRI as shown. Radiation therapy head 104 can be used to direct a
treatment beam at a target within patient 108 lying on couch 110.
         [0021]     FIG. 2 depicts an example of a radiation therapy system that may be used
with the disclosed systems and methods. The example depicted includes three radioisotopic
sources 200, such as Cobalt-60, mounted on gantry 106, directing three radiotherapy beams
at patient 108. While this example utilizes radioisotopic beams, this disclosure
contemplates and is applicable to other radiotherapy beam types such as linear accelerators,
proton beams, etc. In addition, while the example of FIG. 2 shows three radiotherapy heads
spaced in an equidistant manner around the gantry, the systems and methods disclosed
herein apply to any number of radiotherapy heads (i.e., one or more).
         [0022]     FIG. 2 also depicts collimating devices 202 attached to gantry 106 and
associated with each of the sources 200. Collimating devices 202 may, for example, be
multi-leaf collimators (MLCs), as shown in further detail in FIG. 3. MLCs typically have
two banks of opposing pairs of leaves 302, which move independently and can open to
form apertures of various shapes and sizes. The number of leaves 302 can vary. Leaves
302 may be made of tungsten or any suitable material or materials for blocking radiation.
                                               5

MLCs may also employ a tongue and groove arrangement on the long sides and front of the
leaves 302 to limit interleaf radiation leakage and can be configured for inter-digitation of
the leaves 302 in the closed position.
         [0023]      Each leaf 302 of each bank of leaves may be capable of independent
motion and may be driven by leaf motors 304 through connecting rods 306. An MLC
control system can control the two opposing banks of leaves 302 to independently position
the edge of each leaf 302 to a specified location in order to block a radiation beam and form
a field size of a specific shape.
         [0024]      The MLC leaves 302, motors 304, and other components may be
supported by housing 308 that then attaches to gantry 106. Housing 308 may be, for
example, made from aluminum.
         [0025]      FIG. 4 depicts an exemplary gantry 106 layout for the example radiation
therapy system depicted in FIG. 2 having three radioisotopic sources 200 along with three
corresponding collimating devices 202. The embodiment of FIG. 4 further includes
additional conductive elements 400. Conductive elements 400 may be made of a single
material or combine multiple materials. The conductive elements preferably have a shape,
volume and material permeability (i.e., the degree of magnetization that a material obtains
in response to an applied magnetic field) designed to substantially match those of
collimating devices 202 in such respects as are pertinent to the generation of eddy currents
during energizing of the MRI's gradient coils. For example, in the embodiment depicted in
FIG. 4, conductive elements 400 could comprise identical multi-leaf collimators.
         [0026]      Because including additional sets of identical multi-leaf collimators
would be expensive, and because eddy currents are primarily generated in the outer
housings 308 of collimating devices 202, conductive elements 400 may merely be
substantially similar to the housings 308 of collimating devices 202. For example,
                                                6

conductive elements 400 may be pairs of aluminum multi-leaf collimator housings.
Alternatively, conductive elements 400 may be other shapes or other materials that
substantially mimic the eddy current properties of the collimating devices 202 or housings
308.
         [00271      Conductive elements 400 are preferably placed in positions around
gantry 106 to create a substantially symmetrical pattern, as depicted in FIG. 4. The
positions and number of conductive elements 400 may vary, but the resulting arrangement
is preferably symmetrical about the circumference of gantry 106. As noted above, this
disclosure contemplates and is applicable to any type of radiotherapy device. In the case
where there is a single radiation therapy head, for example, a linear accelerator, the same
principles for the additional conductive elements 400 described above apply. In one
example, there may be five conductive elements 400 substantially equally spaced around
gantry 106, along with the single collimating device 202. In another example, a single
conductive element 400 may extend around substantially the entire portion of the
circumference of gantry 106 not occupied by collimating device 202. While a number of
examples have been given for the design and layout of conductive elements 400, any design
and layout meeting the spirit of this disclosure is contemplated.
         [0028]     Leaf motors 304 associated with collimating devices 202, typically
include one or more position sensors 500 capable of determining the position of associated
leaves 302, as shown in FIG. 5A. For example, position sensor 500 may be a Hall effect
encoder, which is capable of determining how many times a motor has rotated. A preferred
embodiment includes magnetic shields 502 substantially surrounding sensors 500.
Magnetic shield 502 is preferably cylindrically shaped and made of a ferromagnetic
material, in one example. One such ferromagnetic material may be steel, but other
materials and shapes suitable for magnetic shielding can be used. In one embodiment, the
                                               7

wall thickness of a steel cylinder is in the range of 1.5-2.0 mm and reduces the magnetic
field within the shield to below 140 Gauss. In one preferred embodiment, the wall
thickness of the steel cylinders 1.6 mm. FIG. 5B demonstrates how magnetic shield 502
can decrease the magnetic field to which sensor 500 is subjected from that of the main
magnet magnetic field 504 to a reduced magnetic field 506 observed within the shield.
         [0029]      Position sensors 500 are preferably oriented within magnetic shield 502
so as to be in the location at which the magnetic field is weakest, as shown in FIG. 5B as
the top and bottom of magnetic shield 502.
         [0030]      In one embodiment of the disclosure, permanent magnets 600 may be
placed adjacent to the bank of motors 304, as shown in FIG. 6. Permanent magnets 600
may be held in place by housings 402 and, in one embodiment, may be made from
Neodymium (NdFeB). The polar orientation of the permanent magnets 600 should be such
that it counteracts the MRI's main magnetic field and the magnetic field induced in the
motors and motor shields 304. FIG. 7 illustrates this orientation of permanent magnets 600
amidst the MRI's main magnetic field 700, showing the north-south polarity of permanent
magnets 702 opposing the main magnet's magnetic field 700.
         [0031]      One embodiment of the disclosure contemplates one permanent magnet
being placed on either side of the bank of motors 304 as shown in FIG. 6. However, any
number and arrangement of properly oriented permanent magnets 600 may be used that
results in substantial cancellation of the magnetic field induced in motor shields 304 and
other ferromagnetic materials in the area (for example, the motor housings). As an
alternative to permanent magnets 600, active windings could be used as well. The
canceling effect of the magnet design's strengths, field orientations, and locations can be
determined utilizing modeling software such as FARADAY, available from Integrated
Engineering Software, or any other appropriate software such as VectorField, for example,
                                                 8

and with further analysis of results potentially being performed in a program such as
MATLAB or any other appropriate software such as FORTRAN, for example.
        [0032]      In one embodiment of the systems and methods of the disclosure, the
leaf motors 304 may also be oriented so that the permanent magnets stators within them
either cancel out the group of motors' magnetic field, or may alternatively be oriented in a
manner that causes the group's magnetic field to be known or predictable.
        [0033]      While placing permanent magnets 600 adjacent the banks of leaf motors
304 substantially improves field homogeneity, the main magnetic field can be further
improved, and the effect of radiation therapy equipment on MRI 102 further decreased. In
addition to the leaf motors 304, magnetic shields 502, motor housings, stators within the
motors and the like, the collimating devices 202 contain leaves 302 that may also have
ferromagnetic properties. For example, leaves 302 may be made from a material such as
tungsten, which has a relatively low permeability of approximately 1.03, but which, due to
the large volume of the leaves, may also have a significant effect on the MRI's magnetic
field. Magnetic field homogeneity may be in further improved, for example, by placing
additional permanent magnet shims within the system. For example, in the embodiment
depicted in FIG. 4 and discussed above, additional permanent magnets may be placed on
the three conductive elements 400. While such location has proven beneficial for this
embodiment, there are numerous other locations that would prove beneficial to field
homogeneity, as can be determined using modeling software such as FARADAY or any
other appropriate software such as VectorField, for example. Other locations could include,
for example, on the collimating devices 202 themselves. In addition, active windings could
be used in place of, or in conjunction with, the permanent magnets. Finally, standard
ferromagnetic shims may be used.
                                                9

        [0034]     FIG. 8 shows a process flow chart 800 illustrating features of a method
consistent with implementations of the current subject matter. At 802, images of a subject
are captured using a magnetic resonance imaging system. At least one radiation beam is
delivered to the subject from one or more radiation therapy heads fixed to a gantry at 804.
A radiation delivery field size of a specific shape if formed at 806 by partially blocking the
radiation beam with a collimating device. The collimating device includes a position
sensor and a motor. The position sensor determines how many times the motor is rotated.
The method can optionally include either or both of counteracting a magnetic field to which
the position sensor is subjected at 810 and mimicking an eddy current property of at least
one of the collimating device and a housing of the collimating device at 812. The
counteracting of the magnetic field can include shielding the position sensor with a
magnetic shield to achieve a reduced magnetic field relative a main magnet magnetic field
of the magnetic resonance imaging system. The mimicking of the eddy current can include
disposing additional conductive elements symmetrically about the gantry.
        [0035]     The subject matter described herein can be embodied in systems,
apparatus, methods, and/or articles depending on the desired configuration. The
implementations set forth in the foregoing description do not represent all implementations
consistent with the subject matter described herein. Instead, they are merely some
examples consistent with aspects related to the described subject matter. While various
implementations in accordance with the disclosed principles have been described above, it
should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and are not
limiting. Thus, the breadth and scope of the invention(s) should not be limited by any of
the above-described exemplary implementations, but should be defined only in accordance
with the claims and their equivalents issuing from this disclosure. The present disclosure
contemplates that the calculations disclosed in the implementations herein may be
                                                10

performed in a number of ways, applying the same concepts taught herein, and that such
calculations are equivalent to the implementations disclosed. Furthermore, the above
described advantages are not intended to limit the application of any issued claims to
processes and structures accomplishing any or all of the advantages.
        [0036]      Additionally, section headings shall not limit or characterize the
invention(s) set out in any claims that may issue from this disclosure. Specifically, and by
way of example, although the headings refer to a "Technical Field," such claims should not
be limited by the language chosen under this heading to describe the so-called technical
field. Further, the description of a technology in the "Background" is not to be construed as
an admission that technology is prior art to any invention(s) in this disclosure. Neither is
the "Summary" to be considered as a characterization of the invention(s) set forth in issued
claims. Furthermore, any reference to this disclosure in general or use of the word
"invention" in the singular is not intended to imply any limitation on the scope of the
claims set forth below. Multiple inventions may be set forth according to the limitations of
the multiple claims issuing from this disclosure, and such claims accordingly define the
invention(s), and their equivalents, that are protected thereby.
        [0037]      Although a few variations have been described in detail above, other
modifications or additions are possible. In particular, further features and/or variations can
be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example, the implementations
described above can be directed to various combinations and subcombinations of the
disclosed features and/or combinations and subcombinations of several further features
disclosed above. In addition, the logic flows depicted in the accompanying figures and/or
described herein do not necessarily require the particular order shown, or sequential order,
to achieve desirable results.
                                                11

        [0038]       In the descriptions above and in the claims, phrases such as "at least one
of' or "one or more of' may occur followed by a conjunctive list of elements or features.
The term "and/or" may also occur in a list of two or more elements or features. Unless
otherwise implicitly or explicitly contradicted by the context in which it used, such a phrase
is intended to mean any of the listed elements or features individually or any of the recited
elements or features in combination with any of the other recited elements or features. For
example, the phrases "at least one of A and B;" "one or more of A and B;" and "A and/or
B" are each intended to mean "A alone, B alone, or A and B together." A similar
interpretation is also intended for lists including three or more items. For example, the
phrases "at least one of A, B, and C;" "one or more of A, B, and C;" and "A, B, and/or C"
are each intended to mean "A alone, B alone, C alone, A and B together, A and C together,
B and C together, or A and B and C together."
        [0039]       Use of the term "based on," above and in the claims is intended to mean,
"based at least in part on," such that an unrecited feature or element is also permissible.
                                                 12

CLAIMS
1.      A system for delivery of radiotherapy in conjunction with magnetic resonance
imaging, the system comprising:
        a magnetic resonance imaging system;
        a gantry;
        a radiation therapy head fixed to the gantry;
        a collimating device associated with the radiation therapy head, including a plurality
of leaves; and
        a leaf drive motor for moving a leaf, the leaf drive motor including a position sensor
and a magnetic shield substantially surrounding the position sensor.
2.      The system of claim 1 wherein the magnetic shield has a cylindrical shape.
3.      The system of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the magnetic shield comprises a
ferromagnetic material.
4.      The system of claim 3 wherein the ferromagnetic material comprises steel.
                                               13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
