                                        ABSTRACT
          A heating device with hot water supply function includes: a combustion
   means; a first heat exchanger; a circulation passage that connects the first heat
 5 exchanger and an room heating unit; a circulation pump; a bypass passage that
   branches off from the circulation passage; a second heat exchanger for hot water
   supply provided in the bypass passage; a cold water supply passage; a hot water
   supply passage for supply of hot water from the second heat exchanger; and a
   distribution means that is provided at a branching section and whose distribution
10 ratio can be adjusted, so that it becomes possible selectively to execute either only
   room heating operation, or only hot water supply operation, or simultaneous room
   heating operation and hot water supply operation; wherein the hot water supply
   outlet, the thermal medium inlet, and the room heating outlet of the distribution
   means are at the same height.
15

            1/3
Fi g.1
                cU
       _C D
                   LJ

   HEATING DEVICE WITH HOT WATER SUPPLY FUNCTION
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO PRIORITY APPLICATION
 5 [0001]        The present application claims priority to Japanese patent
   applications JP2017-000876 and JP2017-000877 filed 6 January 2017, the entire
   contents of which are taken to be incorporated herein by reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10 [0001a]       The present invention relates to a heating device with hot water
   supply function that performs room heating by supplying heat produced by
   combustion to a thermal medium for room heating, and that also performs supply
   of hot water by supplying heat to cold water by heat exchange with the thermal
   medium for room heating; and in particular relates to a heating device with hot
15 water supply function that is capable of performing room heating operation and
   hot water supply operation simultaneously.
   [0001b]       The following discussion of the background to the invention is
   intended to facilitate an understanding of the invention. However, it should be
   appreciated that the discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any
20 aspect of the discussion was part of the common general knowledge as at the
   priority date of the application.
   [0001c]       Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
   "comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
   interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
25 components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features,
   integers, steps or components.
   [0002]        In the prior art, heating devices with hot water supply function that
   are capable of performing changeover between room heating operation and hot
   water supply operation have been widely employed in practice. Such a heating
30 device with hot water supply function typically comprises a combustion means, a
   heat exchanger, a circulation passage that connects between the heat exchanger
   and a room heating unit that is installed inside a building, a circulation pump
                                              1

   provided in the circulation passage, a bypass passage that branches off from the
   circulation passage and bypasses the room heating unit, and so on. A changeover
   means that is capable of performing changeover so that the thermal medium for
   room heating flows either in the circulation passage or in the bypass passage is
 5 provided at the location where the bypass passage branches off from the
   circulation passage. And a heat exchanger for hot water supply is provided in the
   bypass passage, with a cold water supply passage that supplies fresh cold water
   and a hot water supply passage for supplying heated water to a hot water supply
   faucet or the like from the heat exchanger for hot water supply both being
10 connected to the heat exchanger for hot water supply.
   [0003]        The thermal medium for room heating flows due to the operation of
   the circulation pump, and is heated in the heat exchanger by utilizing the
   combustion heat provided by the combustion means. During room heating
   operation the changeover means is changed over so that the thermal medium for
15 room heating flows in the circulation passage, in order for the thermal medium
   for room heating to which heat has been supplied to be utilized by the room
   heating unit. The heated thermal medium for room heating then flows through
   the circulation passage with its heat being dissipated by the room heating unit,
   and returns to the heat exchanger.
20 [0004]        On the other hand, during hot water supply operation, the
   changeover means is changed over so that the thermal medium for room heating
   flows in the bypass passage, in order for the thermal medium for room heating to
   which heat has been supplied to be utilized by the heat exchanger for hot water
   supply. The cold water that is supplied from the cold water supply passage is
25 heated in the heat exchanger for hot water supply due to heat exchange with the
   thermal medium for room heating. And the thermal medium for room heating
   returns to the heat exchanger, after having exchanged heat with cold water in the
   heat exchanger for hot water supply. Moreover, the hot water that has been
   heated by the heat exchanger for hot water supply is then supplied to a hot water
30 supply faucet or the like via the hot water supply passage from.
   [0005]        Such a heating device with hot water supply function that performs
   changeover between room heating operation and hot water supply operation in
                                             2

   this manner has the problem of being somewhat inconvenient, due to the fact that
   room heating operation and hot water supply operation cannot both be performed
   simultaneously.
   [0006]        Due to these considerations, the present applicant has already
 5 proposed a heating device with hot water supply function with which
   simultaneous room heating and hot water supply operation are possible, and that
   performs both room heating operation and hot water supply operation
   simultaneously by adjusting the distribution ratio of a distribution means for the
   thermal medium (refer to Japanese Patent Application No.2016 -146594). In
10 simultaneous room heating and hot water supply operation, the circulating
   thermal medium for room heating is distributed between the room heating unit
   and the heat exchanger for hot water supply, so that hot water is supplied by heat
   being supplied to cold water in the heat exchanger for hot water supply.
   [0007]        Typically, a plate type heat exchanger is employed as the heat
15 exchanger for hot water supply. Since multiple passages whose cross-sectional
   areas are small are provided in the interior of a plate type heat exchanger,
   accordingly in some cases the flow of the thermal medium for room heating and/or
   the flow of hot water for hot water supply may be difficult. Due to this, a structure
   is per se known in which a passage whose resistance to water flow is low is
20 provided within the plate type heat exchanger, as for example in the case of the
   plate type heat exchanger of Japanese Patent No. 5,882,491. Because the water
   flow resistance is low, both the thermal medium for room heating and the hot
   water for hot water supply can easily flow within this plate type heat exchanger.
   [0008]        However, since such a heating device with hot water supply function
25 that is capable of performing room heating operation and hot water supply
   operation simultaneously needs to be equipped with a distribution valve to serve
   as a distribution means that is larger in size than a three-way valve that serves
   as a changeover means, accordingly it is not easy to house such a distribution
   valve in the relatively limited space within the heating device with hot water
30 supply function. Additionally, such a heating device with hot water supply
   function is required to have both satisfactory hot water output characteristics
   during the supply of hot water and also satisfactory performance for drainage
                                              3

   during maintenance. With the structure of Japanese Patent No. 5,882,491,
   although the flows of the thermal medium for room heating and of the hot water
   for hot water supply are improved to be satisfactory, the quality of the
   characteristics for hot water output including the characteristics of the passages
 5 connected to the plate type heat exchanger and the quality of the drainage
   performance are unclear.
   [0009]        It is therefore desirable to provide a heating device with hot water
   supply function, that is capable of performing any one of only room heating
   operation, or only hot water supply operation, or simultaneous room heating
10 operation and hot water supply operation; and that, along with being provided
   with a distribution valve having satisfactory drainage performance, moreover is
   capable of implementing a satisfactory hot water output characteristic.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15 [0010]        The present invention presents a heating device with hot water
   supply function, comprising: a combustion means; a heat exchanger for heating a
   thermal medium for room heating; a circulation passage that connects the heat
   exchanger and a room heating unit; a circulation pump for circulating the
   thermal medium provided in the circulation passage; a bypass passage that
20 branches off from the circulation passage and bypasses the room heating unit; a
   heat exchanger for hot water supply provided in the bypass passage; a cold water
   supply passage for supplying cold water to the heat exchanger for hot water
   supply; a hot water supply passage for supply of hot water that has been heated
   by the heat exchanger for hot water supply at a predetermined set hot water
25 supply temperature; and a distribution means that is provided at a branching
   section where the bypass passage branches off from the circulation passage, and
   whose distribution ratio can be adjusted, so that it becomes possible selectively to
   execute either only room heating operation, or only hot water supply operation, or
   simultaneous room heating operation and hot water supply operation; the
30 distribution means being a distribution valve comprising a cylindrical main body
   portion and a hot water supply outlet and a thermal medium inlet and a room
   heating outlet that are formed on the main body portion, and is disposed so that
                                               4

   an axial direction of the main body portion is horizontal and the hot water supply
   outlet, the thermal medium inlet, and the room heating outlet are all at the same
   height.
   [0011]          According to the present invention, the hot water supply outlet, the
 5 thermal medium inlet, and the room heating outlet of the distribution valve are
   all at the same height. Due to this, it is possible to obtain satisfactory drainage
   performance when the thermal medium is drained during maintenance or the
   like, since it is difficult for the thermal medium to stagnate within the
   distribution valve. Moreover, since the hot water supply outlet and the thermal
10 medium inlet are at the same height, accordingly, when room heating operation
   has been stopped and the circulation of the thermal medium has ceased, even if
   the closing function of the distribution valve is insufficient, still no flow of the
   thermal medium within the distribution valve will occur from the thermal
   medium inlet toward the hot water supply outlet due to the propulsive force of
15 natural convection, and the thermal medium for room heating will not flow into
   the heat exchanger for hot water supply. Accordingly, it is possible to prevent
   unanticipated supply of heat to the hot water in the heat exchanger, so that it is
   possible to obtain a satisfactory hot water output characteristic during supply of
   hot water.
20 [0012]          In a preferable first aspect of the present, the hot water supply
   outlet, the thermal medium inlet, and the room heating outlet are disposed at
   different positions along the axial direction of the main body portion, with
   pointingtoward different directions.
   [0013]          In a preferable second aspect of the present invention, the heat
25 exchanger for hot water supply is a plate type heat exchanger that is formed as a
   rectangular parallelepiped, and the distribution means is disposed so that the
   axial direction of the main body portion is parallel to the longitudinal direction of
   the heat exchanger for hot water supply.
   [0014]          According to the second aspect, it is possible simply and easily to
30 arrange the heat exchanger for hot water supply and the distribution valve in the
   limited space within the heating device with hot water supply function.
                                                5

   [0015]         In a preferable third aspect of the present invention, the hot water
   supply outlet of the distribution means is directly connected to a thermal medium
   inlet port of the heat exchanger for hot water supply by use of a metallic
   connection clip.
 5 [0016]         According to the third aspect, the distribution valve and the heat
   exchanger for hot water supply are connected together through the shortest
   possible distance. Accordingly, it is possible to obtain a satisfactory output hot
   water characteristic during supply of hot water, since the thermal medium that is
   distributed by the distribution valve during the supply of hot water can flow
10 immediately into the heat exchanger for hot water supply.
   [0017]         In a preferable fourth aspect of the present invention, the hot water
   supply outlet of the distribution means and the thermal medium inlet port of the
   heat exchanger for hot water supply are connected together via a straight pipe
   section, of which one end portion is connected to the thermal medium inlet port by
15 a first quick fastener, and the other end portion is connected to the hot water
   supply outlet by a second quick fastener; and a distance between the hot water
   supply outlet of the distribution means and the thermal medium inlet port
   corresponds to a distance between a center of the first quick fastener in its width
   direction and a center of the second quick fastener in its width direction.
20 [0018]         According to the fourth aspect, the distribution valve and the heat
   exchanger for hot water supply are connected together via the straight pipe
   section through the shortest possible distance. Accordingly, it is possible to obtain
   a satisfactory output hot water characteristic during supply of hot water, since
   the thermal medium that is distributed by the distribution valve during the
25 supply of hot water can flow immediately into the heat exchanger for hot water
   supply.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0019]         Fig. 1 is a schematic drawing showing a heating device with hot
30 water supply function according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   Fig. 2 is an exploded perspective view of a portion for connection between a
   distribution valve and a heat exchanger for hot water supply;
                                               6

   Fig. 3 is a plan view showing a state in which the distribution valve and the heat
   exchanger for hot water supply are connected together;
   Fig. 4 is a figure corresponding to Fig. 2, relating to a variant embodiment; and
   Fig. 5 is a figure corresponding to Fig. 3, relating to the variant embodiment.
 5
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0020]         A heating device with hot water supply function according to an
   embodiment of the present invention will now be explained on the basis of the
   drawings. First, the overall structure of the heating device with hot water supply
10 function 1 will be explained on the basis of Fig. 1.
          The heating device with hot water supply function 1 circulates a thermal
   medium for room heating that has been heated by utilizing heat generated by a
   combustion section 2 to a room heating unit ( not shown) that is installed in a
   room of a building, thereby performing room heating, and is also adapted to
15 provide hot water supply by heating cold water by utilizing the heat of the room
   heating thermal medium while adjusting its temperature to a predetermined set
   hot water supply temperature. In Fig. 1, the arrow F represents supply of fuel,
   the arrow AS represents supply of air, the arrow E represents exhaust gas, the
   arrow D represents drainage, the arrow CW represents supply of cold water, the
20 arrow HW represents supply of hot water, the arrow HS represents supply of the
   room heating thermal medium, the arrow HR represents return of the room
   heating thermal medium, and the arrow R represents replenishment of the room
   heating thermal medium.
   [0021]         The heating device with hot water supply function 1 comprises a
25 combustion section 2 that constitutes a combustion means, a heat exchanger 10, a
   circulation passage 4 connecting the heat exchanger 10 and the room heating
   unit (not shown) that is provided inside a building, a circulation pump 11 that is
   provided in the circulation passage 4 on the upstream side of the heat exchanger
   10, and so on. The combustion section 2 mixes fuel gas and air, and combusts the
30 mixture. And the heat exchanger 10 supplies heat to the room heating thermal
   medium by exchanging heat between the combustion gas generated by the
   combustion section 2 and the room heating thermal medium.
                                               7

   [0022]        Moreover, the heating device with hot water supply function 1
   comprises a bypass passage 12 (a first bypass passage), a heat exchanger for hot
   water supply 20 that is provided in the first bypass passage 12, a cold water
   supply passage 19, a hot water supply passage 21, and so on. The first bypass
 5 passage 12 branches off from the circulation passage 4 on the downstream side of
   the heat exchanger 10 and bypasses the room heating unit, and joins to the
   circulation passage 4 on the upstream side of the circulation pump 11. And the
   cold water supply passage 19 supplies cold water to the heat exchanger for hot
   water supply 20. Moreover, the hot water supply passage 21 provides supply to a
10 hot water supply faucet of hot water that has been heated up by application of
   heat by the heat exchanger 20.
   [0023]        Furthermore, the heating device with hot water supply function 1
   comprises a control unit 7; and the various devices and so on described above,
   including the control unit 7, are contained within a casing 8. The control unit 7
15 receives detection signals from temperature sensors and so on that will be
   described hereinafter, and also performs control to operate the circulation pump
   11 and a first distribution valve 30, so as to make it possible selectively to execute
   either only room heating operation, or only hot water supply operation, or
   simultaneous room heating operation and hot water supply operation.
20 [0024]        Next, the circulation passage 4 will be explained.
          The circulation passage 4 comprises a first temperature sensor 13 provided
   between the circulation pump 11 and the heat exchanger 10, and a second
   temperature sensor 14 provided at the downstream side of the heat exchanger 10.
   The first temperature sensor 13 detects the temperature of the room heating
25 thermal medium flowing into the heat exchanger 10. And the second temperature
   sensor 14 detects the temperature of the room heating thermal medium to which
   heat has been supplied by the heat exchanger 10.
   [0025]        The first distribution valve 30, which is a distribution means, is
   provided at the branching section where the circulation passage 4 and the first
30 bypass passage 12 branch apart. The first distribution valve 30 distributes the
   room heating thermal medium, to which heat has been supplied by the heat
                                              8

   exchanger 10, to the circulation passage 4 and the first bypass passage 12, and is
   capable of adjusting its distribution ratio.
   [0026]        A pressure relief valve 16 for venting the pressure within the
   circulation passage 4 is provided between the heat exchanger 10 and the first
 5 distribution valve 30. And a room heating return temperature sensor 17 is
   provided on the upstream side of the circulation pump 11 and detects the
   temperature of the thermal medium returning from the room heating unit. A
   replenishment passage 18 for replenishment of the thermal medium is connected
   between the circulation pump 11 and the room heating return temperature sensor
10 17.
   [0027]        Next, the heat exchanger for hot water supply 20 will be explained.
   The heat exchanger 20 that is provided in the first bypass passage 12 is a plate
   type heat exchanger that is formed in the shape of a rectangular parallelepiped.
   In this plate type heat exchanger, a plurality of heat exchange plates are
15 laminated together so that passages are defined between these heat exchange
   plates. Within the heat exchanger 20, mutually opposing flows for the thermal
   medium and for cold water supplied from the cold water supply passage 19 are
   defined between alternate ones of the heat exchange plates, so that these flows
   can exchange heat without mutually mixing together . These heat exchange
20 plates are formed with roughnesses, in order to increase their surface areas and
   to enhance the heat exchange efficiency.
   [0028]        As shown in Figs. 1 and 2, a connection portion 29a is formed at a
   heating medium inlet port29 for introducing the thermal medium to the heat
   exchanger 20. The connection portion 29a includes a cylindrical passage portion
25 29b that projects from the heat exchanger 20, an enlarged diameter portion 29c at
   the end of the passage portion 29b whose diameter is enlarged to be greater than
   that of the passage portion 29b, and a flange portion 29d that is formed at the end
   of the enlarged diameter portion 29c. Similar connection portions are also formed
   at the thermal medium outlet, at the hot water inlet, and at the hot water outlet
30 of the heat exchanger 20, and project in the same direction as its connection
   portion 29a. The heat exchanger 20 is fixed in the casing 8 by its surface on which
                                              9

   these connection portions 29a and so on are not formed, in an attitude in which its
   longitudinal direction is horizontal.
   [0029]        Next, the cold water supply passage 19 and the hot water supply
   passage 21 will be explained.
 5        As shown in Fig. 1, the cold water supply passage 19 comprises a second
   distribution valve 23, a flow rate adjustment valve 24, a hot water supply flow
   rate sensor 25, and an intake cold water temperature sensor 26. The second
   distribution valve 23 distributes cold water to the cold water supply passage 19
   and to a hot water supply bypass passage 22 (a second bypass passage 22) that is
10 branched off from the cold water supply passage 19 at the second distribution
   valve 23, and its distribution ratio can be adjusted. Accordingly, the second
   distribution valve 23 serves as a flow rate adjustment means that adjusts the flow
   rate of cold water flowing in the second bypass passage 22. And the flow rate
   adjustment valve 24 adjusts the flow rate of the cold water entering into the
15 second distribution valve 23. The hot water supply flow rate sensor 25 detects the
   adjusted flow rate of cold water. Moreover, the intake cold water temperature
   sensor 26 detects the temperature of the cold water entering the second
   distribution valve 23.
   [0030]        The second bypass passage 22 joins to the hot water supply passage
20 21 on the downstream side of the heat exchanger 20. An output hot water
   temperature sensor 27, which is a temperature detection means, is provided in
   the hot water supply passage 21 between the junction of the hot water supply
   passage 21 and the second bypass passage 22, and the heat exchanger 20. This
   output hot water temperature sensor 27 detects the temperature of the hot water
25 outputted from the heat exchanger 20.
   [0031]        A hot water supply temperature sensor 28 is provided at the
   downstream end of the hot water supply passage 21. This hot water supply
   temperature sensor 28 detects the temperature of the hot water that has been
   obtained by mixing together the hot water to which heat has been supplied by the
30 heat exchanger for hot water supply 20 and cold water flowing through the second
   bypass passage 22.
   [0032]        Next, the first distribution valve 30 will be explained.
                                              10

          As shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the first distribution valve 30 comprises a
   cylindrical main body portion 31 and an driving adjustment portion 32 at one end
   portion in the axial direction of the main body portion 31 for adjusting the
   distribution ratio provided by the first distribution valve 30. A hot water supply
 5 outlet 33, a thermal medium inlet 34, and a room heating outlet 35 are arranged
   on the main body portion 31, at different positions along its axial direction and
   pointing in different directions.
   [0033]        The hot water supply outlet 33 is arranged at a side portion of the
   main body portion 31 that is close to the driving adjustment portion 32 of the
10 main body portion 31, so as to point outward along a radial direction thereof. The
   room heating outlet 35 is arranged at the other end portion of the main body
   portion 31 in its axial direction opposite to the driving adjustment portion 32, so
   as to point in the direction away from the driving adjustment portion 32. And the
   thermal medium inlet 34 is arranged at a position in the axial direction of the
15 main body portion 31 between the hot water supply outlet 33 and the room
   heating outlet 35, so as to point in the direction opposite to the direction in which
   the hot water supply outlet 33 is pointing.
   [0034]        The first distribution valve 30 is arranged with the axial direction of
   its main body portion 31 (i.e. its longitudinal direction) horizontal and parallel to
20 the longitudinal direction of the heat exchanger 20 which is formed as a
   rectangular parallelepiped, and its hot water supply outlet 33 is arranged so as to
   point toward the heat exchanger 20. At this time, the hot water supply outlet 33,
   the thermal medium inlet 34, and the room heating outlet 35 are at the same
   height. The hot water supply outlet 33 is directly connected to the connection
25 portion 29a of the thermal medium inlet port 29 of the heat exchanger 20 by the
   use of a metallic connection clip.
   [0035]        The hot water supply outlet 33 includes a cylindrical passage portion
   33a and an enlarged diameter portion 33b at the end of the passage portion 33a
   whose external diameter is enlarged to be greater than that of the passage
30 portion 33a. This enlarged diameter portion 33b is fitted to the enlarged diameter
   portion 29c of the connection portion 29a and is fixed thereto by the
   abovementioned metallic connection clip. For example, a quick fastener 36 may be
                                              11

   used as this metallic connection clip. A sealing member is provided around the
   circumference of the enlarged diameter portion 33b, so as to ensure that the hot
   water supply outlet 33 is connected to the connection portion 29a of the thermal
   medium inlet port 29 in a water-tight manner.
 5 [0036]         Next, the operation and the beneficial effects of this heating device
   with hot water supply function 1 will be explained.
           Since, along with the axial direction of the main body portion 31 of the first
   distribution valve 30 being oriented horizontally and parallel to the longitudinal
   direction of the heat exchanger 20 which is shaped as a rectangular
10 parallelepiped, also the hot water supply outlet 33 is disposed to point toward the
   heat exchanger 20, therefore the hot water supply outlet 33, the thermal medium
   inlet 34, and the room heating outlet 35 are all at the same height. And, since the
   first distribution valve 30 is thus disposed so that the thermal medium flows
   horizontally in its interior, accordingly, when the thermal medium is drained for
15 maintenance or the like, the thermal medium does not stagnate within the first
   distribution valve 30, so that satisfactory drainage performance can be obtained.
   [0037]         Moreover, since the thermal medium inlet 34 and the hot water
   supply outlet 33 are at the same height, accordingly, when the room heating
   operation has been stopped and circulation of the thermal medium has ceased,
20 flow of the thermal medium within the first distribution valve 30 from the
   thermal medium inlet 34 toward the hot water supply outlet 33 due to natural
   convection acting as a propulsive force does not take place. Because of this, even if
   the closing function of the first distribution valve 30 is insufficient, still the
   thermal medium will not flow into the heat exchanger 20. Accordingly, it is
25 possible to prevent unanticipated supply of heat to the hot water in the heat
   exchanger 20, so that it is possible to obtain a satisfactory hot water output
   characteristic during supply of hot water.
   [0038]         Furthermore, since the first distribution valve 30 is directly
   connected to the heat exchanger 20, accordingly it is possible for the thermal
30 medium that has been distributed by the first distribution valve 30 to be
   immediately flowed into the heat exchanger 20, so that it is possible to obtain a
   satisfactory output hot water characteristic during hot water supply.
                                              12

   [0039]        Yet further, the first distribution valve 30 is disposed so that the
   axial direction of its main body portion 31, which is its longitudinal direction, is
   parallel to the longitudinal direction of the heat exchanger 20, and moreover so
   that the distance between the heat exchanger 20 and the first distribution valve
 5 30 is short. Accordingly, it is possible easily to arrange the first distribution valve
   30 and the heat exchanger 20 in the limited space inside the heating device with
   hot water supply function 1.
   [0039]        Next, a variant embodiment in which the connection construction
   that connects between the first distribution valve 30 and the heat exchanger 20 is
10 modified will be explained on the basis of Figs. 4 and 5.
   [0040]        A first distribution valve 40 comprises a cylindrical main body
   portion 41 and an driving adjustment portion 42 at one end portion in the axial
   direction of the main body portion 41 for adjusting its distribution ratio. A hot
   water supply outlet 43, a thermal medium inlet 44, and a room heating outlet 45
15 are disposed on the main body portion 41, at different positions along its axial
   direction and pointing in different directions.
   [0041]        The hot water supply outlet 43 is arranged at a side portion of the
   main body portion 41 that is close to the driving adjustment portion 42 of the
   main body portion 41, so as to point outward along a radial direction thereof. The
20 room heating outlet 45 is arranged at the other end portion of the main body
   portion 41 in its axial direction opposite to the driving adjustment portion 42, so
   as to point in the direction away from the driving adjustment portion 42. And the
   thermal medium inlet 44 is arranged at a position in the axial direction of the
   main body portion 41 between the hot water supply outlet 43 and the room
25 heating outlet 45, so as to point in the direction opposite to the direction in which
   the hot water supply outlet 43 is pointing.
   [0042]        The first distribution valve 40 is arranged with the axial direction of
   its main body portion 41 (i.e. its longitudinal direction) horizontal and parallel to
   the longitudinal direction of the heat exchanger 20 which is formed as a
30 rectangular parallelepiped, and its hot water supply outlet 43 is arranged so as to
   point toward the heat exchanger 20. At this time, the hot water supply outlet 43,
                                               13

   the thermal medium inlet 44, and the room heating outlet 45 are at the same
   height.
   [0043]         As shown in Figs. 1, 4, and 5, the hot water supply outlet 43 of the
   first distribution valve 40 is connected to the connection portion 29a of the
 5 thermal medium inlet port 29 of the heat exchanger 20 via a straight pipe section
   37. The hot water supply outlet 43 of the first distribution valve 40 has a
   cylindrical passage portion 43a, an enlarged diameter portion 43b at the end of
   the passage portion 43a whose external diameter is enlarged to be greater than
   that of the passage portion 43a, and a flange portion 43c that is formed on the end
10 portion of the enlarged diameter portion 43b.
   [0044]         The two ends of the straight pipe section 37 are provided with
   enlarged diameter portions 38, 39 whose external diameters are enlarged. The
   enlarged diameter portion 38 is fitted to the enlarged diameter portion 29c of the
   thermal medium inlet port 29 and is fixed thereto by a first quick fastener 46, so
15 that it cannot come off. And the enlarged diameter portion 39 is fitted to the
   enlarged diameter portion 43b of the hot water supply outlet 43 and is fixed
   thereto by a second quick fastener 47, so that it cannot come off. At this time,
   since the first and second quick fasteners 46, 47 are closely approached together
   so as to contact one another, accordingly the first distribution valve 40 and the
20 heat exchanger for hot water supply 20 are connected together via the straight
   pipe section 37 through as short a distance as possible. Sealing members are
   provided around the circumferences of the enlarged diameter portions 38, 39, in
   order to ensure water-tight connections.
   [0045]         Engagement portions are provided on the first and second quick
25 fasteners 46, 47 at their central portions in their width directions which are
   parallel to the axial direction of the straight pipe section 37, for engaging with the
   flange portion 29d of the thermal medium inlet port 29, the flange portion 43c of
   the hot water supply outlet 43, and the enlarged diameter portions 38, 39 of the
   straight pipe section 37. Accordingly, the distance between the hot water supply
30 outlet 43 and the thermal medium inlet port 29 corresponds to the distance
   between the center in the width direction of the first quick fastener 46 and the
   center in the width direction of the second quick fastener 47. It should be
                                               14

   understood that, if the first and second quick fasteners 46, 47 are of the same
   size, then this distance will correspond to the width of the first quick fastener 46
   or to the width of the second quick fastener 47.
   [0046]         Next, the operation and the beneficial effects of the connection
 5 construction shown in Figs. 4 and 5 will be explained.
   Since, along with the axial direction of the main body portion 41 of the first
   distribution valve 40 being oriented horizontally and parallel to the longitudinal
   direction of the heat exchanger 20 which is shaped as a rectangular
   parallelepiped, also the hot water supply outlet 43 is disposed to point toward the
10 heat exchanger 20, therefore the hot water supply outlet 43, the thermal medium
   inlet 44, and the room heating outlet 45 are all at the same height. And, since the
   first distribution valve 40 is thus disposed so that the thermal medium flows
   horizontally in its interior, accordingly, when the thermal medium is drained for
   maintenance or the like, the thermal medium does not stagnate within the first
15 distribution valve 40, so that satisfactory drainage performance can be obtained.
   [0047]         Moreover, since the thermal medium inlet 44 and the hot water
   supply outlet 43 are at the same height, accordingly, when the operation has been
   stopped and circulation of the thermal medium has ceased, flow of the thermal
   medium within the first distribution valve 40 from the thermal medium inlet 44
20 toward the hot water supply outlet 43 due to natural convection acting as a
   propulsive force does not take place. Because of this, even if the closing function of
   the first distribution valve 40 is insufficient, still the thermal medium will not
   flow into the heat exchanger 20. Accordingly, it is possible to prevent
   unanticipated supply of heat to the hot water in the heat exchanger 20, so that it
25 is possible to obtain a satisfactory hot water output characteristic during supply
   of hot water.
   [0048]         Furthermore, the first distribution valve 40 is connected to the heat
   exchanger 20 via the straight pipe section 37 which is held on by the first and
   second quick fasteners 46, 47, and the distance between the center of the first
30 quick fastener 46 in its width direction and the center of the second quick fastener
   47 in its width direction is made to be as short as possible. Accordingly it is
   possible for the thermal medium that has been distributed by the first
                                               15

   distribution valve 40 to be immediately flowed into the heat exchanger 20, so that
   it is possible to obtain a satisfactory output hot water characteristic during hot
   water supply.
   [0049]         Yet further, the first distribution valve 40 is disposed so that the
 5 axial direction of its main body portion 41, which is its longitudinal direction, is
   parallel to the longitudinal direction of the heat exchanger 20, and moreover so
   that the distance between the heat exchanger 20 and the first distribution valve
   40 is short. Accordingly, it is possible easily to arrange the first distribution valve
   40 and the heat exchanger 20 for hot water supply in the limited space inside the
10 heating device with hot water supply function 1A .
   [0053]         Apart from the above, for a person skilled in the art, without
   deviating from the gist of the present invention, it would be possible to implement
   the present invention by making additions of various types to the embodiment
   described above; and the present invention is to be considered as encompassing
15 modifications of this kind.
                                                16

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A heating device with hot water supply function, comprising:
          a combustion means;
 5        a heat exchanger for heating a thermal medium for room heating;
          a circulation passage that connects the heat exchanger and a room heating
   unit;
          a circulation pump for circulating the thermal medium provided in the
   circulation passage;
10        a bypass passage that branches off from the circulation passage and
   bypasses the room heating unit;
          a heat exchanger for hot water supply provided in the bypass passage;
          a cold water supply passage for supplying cold water to the heat exchanger
   for hot water supply;
15        a hot water supply passage for supply of hot water that has been heated by
   the heat exchanger for hot water supply at a predetermined set hot water supply
   temperature; and
          a distribution means that is provided at a branching section where the
   bypass passage branches off from the circulation passage, and whose distribution
20 ratio can be adjusted, so that it becomes possible selectively to execute either only
   room heating operation, or only hot water supply operation, or simultaneous room
   heating operation and hot water supply operation;
         the distribution means being a distribution valve comprising a cylindrical
   main body portion, and a hot water supply outlet and a thermal medium inlet
25 and a room heating outlet that are formed on the main body portion, and is
   disposed so that the axial direction of said main body portion is horizontal and the
   hot water supply outlet, the thermal medium inlet, and the room heating outlet
   are all at the same height.
   2.      The heating device with hot water supply function according to claim 1,
30 wherein the hot water supply outlet, the thermal medium inlet, and the room
   heating outlet are disposed at different positions along the axial direction of the
   main body portion, with pointing toward different directions.
                                              17

   3.       The heating device with hot water supply function according to claim 1,
   wherein the heat exchanger for hot water supply is a plate type heat exchanger
   that is formed as a rectangular parallelepiped; and the distribution means is
   disposed so that the axial direction of the main body portion is parallel to a
 5 longitudinal direction of the heat exchanger for hot water supply.
   4.      The heating device with hot water supply function according to claim 3,
   wherein the hot water supply outlet of the distribution means is directly
   connected to a thermal medium inlet port of the heat exchanger for hot water
   supply by use of a metallic connection clip.
10 5.      The heating device with hot water supply function according to claim 3,
   wherein the hot water supply outlet of the distribution means and the thermal
   medium inlet port of the heat exchanger for hot water supply are connected
   together via a straight pipe section, of which one end portion is connected to the
   thermal medium inlet port by a first quick fastener, and the other end portion is
15 connected to the hot water supply outlet by a second quick fastener; and
   a distance between the hot water supply outlet of said distribution means and the
   thermal medium inlet port corresponds to a distance between the center of the
   first quick fastener in its width direction and a center of the second quick fastener
   in its width direction.
20
                                              18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
