                                               14
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to an online lottery syndicate system. The system includes
a lottery server for issuing lottery tickets associated with a lottery. A syndicate manager
computer enables a syndicate manager to arrange purchase of a lottery syndicate ticket
in the lottery. An agent server receives confirmation of payment by the lottery syndicate
manager, receives lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery syndicate
manager, and purchases the lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said payment and
based upon said lottery syndicate conditions.

                                                  1
A LOTTERY SYNDICATE SYSTEM
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]       The present invention generally relates to a lottery syndicate system.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.
[0003]       Lottery is a form of gaming which involves the drawing of numbers for a prize
pool.
[0004]       It is known that some people get together and play a syndicate (also known
as a group play) in a lottery draw by combining money to purchase an increased
number of tickets for a lottery draw, thereby increasing the possibility of winning.
[0005]       However, coordinating the syndicate can be complicated, particularly when
syndicate members are located far apart including in countries in which lottery play is
not provided. It is not unusual for syndicate members to be tardy in paying which can
cause complications, particularly in the event of a win. Further, some people are
desirous of joining a syndicate to experience the joy of community play, although do not
 know others who regularly participate in lotteries.
 [0006]      The Applicant has identified a need for improved management of syndicate
 lottery play.
 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [0007]      According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided an online
 lottery syndicate system including:
         a lottery server for issuing lottery tickets associated with a lottery;
         a syndicate manager computer for enabling a syndicate manager to arrange
 purchase of a lottery syndicate ticket in the lottery; and

                                               2
       an agent server for receiving confirmation of payment by the lottery syndicate
manager, receiving lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery syndicate
manager, and purchasing the lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said confirmation of
payment and based upon said lottery syndicate conditions.
[0008]     Advantageously, the online agent server facilitates coordination of the
syndicate, which is particularly simplified when syndicate members are located far apart
including in countries in which lottery play is not provided.
[0009]     The system may further include a social networking server for inviting
prospective members to join the syndicate by purchasing shares in the ticket. The
prospective members may be connections of the syndicate manager. Accordingly,
connections may join the syndicate to experience the joy of community play,
irrespective of whether or not they actually know the syndicate manager or know that
the syndicate manager regularly participates in lotteries.
[00010]     The system may further include one or more prospective syndicate member
computers for enabling payment to join the syndicate. The syndicate members may
readily pay to become a member of the syndicate without the need to pay the syndicate
manager and to avoid any membership dispute arising in the event of a win.
[00011]     The system may further include a financial server for administering financial
accounts for syndicate members and receiving payments.
[00012]     According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
agent server configured to:
        receive confirmation of payment by a lottery syndicate manager;
        receive lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery syndicate manager;
and
        purchase a lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said confirmation of payment
and based upon said lottery syndicate conditions.
 [00013]    According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method for managing a lottery syndicate, the method involving the steps of:
        an agent server receiving confirmation of payment by a lottery syndicate
 manager;

                                            3
        the agent server receiving lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery
syndicate manager; and
        the agent server purchasing a lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said
confirmation of payment and based upon said lottery syndicate conditions.
[00014]     During purchasing, the agent server may allocate shares in the ticket. The
agent server may allocate shares to syndicate member's accounts upon receipt of
payment from syndicate members. The shares may be unequal.
[00015]     Prior to a predetermined cancellation period before a lottery draw, the agent
server may confirm to the syndicate manager that all shares in the syndicate are sold.
The agent server may electronically transfer any winnings from the lottery draw into the
syndicate members accounts based upon their allocation of shares. The agent server
may validate the age or identity of each syndicate member before they can withdraw
winnings from their account.
[00016]     Prior to a predetermined cancellation period before a lottery draw associated
with the syndicate ticket and subsequent to the agent server confirming to the syndicate
manager that all shares in the syndicate ticket are not sold, the agent server may
receive a cancellation request of the syndicate ticket from the syndicate manager.
[00017]     The agent server may enable the syndicate manager to send one or more
invitations to prospective members of a lottery syndicate associated with the purchased
lottery syndicate ticket. The invitations may be sent to connections of the syndicate
manager via social media using a social networking server. The invitations may be
either broadcast to all connections or sent to selected connections. Prior to a
predetermined cancellation period before a lottery draw associated with the syndicate
ticket and subsequent to the agent server confirming to the syndicate manager that all
shares in the syndicate ticket are not sold, the method may further include the step of
the agent server sending public invitations via social media to join the syndicate.
[00018]     The agent server may cancel the syndicate ticket purchase and issue
electronic refunds to the accounts of the syndicate members including the syndicate
manager. The agent server may electronically transfer any winnings from a lottery draw
associated with the syndicate ticket into syndicate members accounts based upon an
allocation of syndicate shares. The agent server may validate the age or identity of each

                                              4
syndicate member before they can withdraw winnings from their account. The method
may further include the step of the agent server registering a lottery syndicate manager
or other syndicate members.
[00019]     According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
social networking lottery method including the step of:
      sending, using a social networking server, an invitation to a prospective member of
a lottery syndicate.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00020]     Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information
for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way.
The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
 [00021]    Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a social networking system in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention;
 [00022]    Figure 2 is a flowchart showing a social networking lottery method performed
 using the system of Figure 1; and
 [00023]    Figure 3 is a flowchart showing a syndicate lottery method performed using
the system of Figure 1.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 [00024]    According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
 social networking system 100 as shown in Figure 1.
 [00025]    The social networking system 100 includes a social networking administrator
 server 102 for administering a social networking website (e.g. Facebook, Myspace, etc).
 A registered member of the website has a personal profile, and can be a designated
 syndicate manager to manage a lottery syndicate using computer 104. The syndicate

                                             5
manager can connect to other website syndicate members with computers 106 so as to
manage syndicate lottery play using the website as described in detail below.
[00026]     The system 100 also includes a lottery server 108 administered by a lottery
provider (e.g. Tattersalls, South Australian Lotteries, Western Australian Lotteries, etc.)
conducting a lottery and for issuing associated lottery tickets. The system 100 further
includes an agent server 110 interfaced to the lottery server 108 via the Internet 112.
The agent server 110 is configured to sell tickets for the lottery online to the syndicate
manager, and to manage underlying lottery syndicate operations when communicating
with the social networking website. A bank server 114 stores financial accounts for all of
the syndicate members and other entities, and assists with all payments.
[00027]     The social networking website enables the syndicate manager to send, with
computer 104, one or more joining invitations to computers 106 of prospective members
of a lottery syndicate. The syndicate manager receives acceptance of the invitations to
form the syndicate and receives agreement from syndicate members of one or more
conditions relating to playing of the lottery. A detailed description of the social
networking lottery method is provided below.
[00028]     A social networking lottery method 200 performed using the system 100 is
 now described in detail below.
 [00029]    At step 202, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
 registers a lottery syndicate manager. Elaborating further, a social networking website
 user operating computer 104, registers as a lottery syndicate manager and creates an
 associated account in a database of the agent server 11 Ousing the agent's website.
 [00030]    At step 204, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
 at the request of the syndicate manager sends one or more invitations to prospective
 members of a lottery syndicate. Elaborating further, the syndicate manager operating
 computer 104 sends invitations using the social networking website to connections (e.g.
 friends who are prospective members of the lottery syndicate) via their computers 106.
 [00031]    At step 206, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
 at the request of the syndicate manager receives acceptance of the invitations to form

                                             6
the lottery syndicate. Elaborating further, the connections operating computers 106
each accept the invitations using the social networking website.
[00032]      At step 208, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
receives agreement from syndicate members of one or more conditions relating to
playing of a lottery. Elaborating further, the syndicate manager outlines the lottery
conditions to the syndicate members who agree once consensus of the conditions is
reached. The conditions relate to the identification of a lottery draw, type of lottery
game, selection of numbers (e.g. random or manual number selection), number of
draws to enter the same selection of numbers, or division of winnings among syndicate
members (which need not be equal). Confirmation of the agreement is in the form of
each syndicate member electronically depositing money in the bank account of the
syndicate manager using the website.
[00033]      At step 210, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
purchases online at least one ticket for the lottery in accordance with the agreed
conditions. The syndicate manager typically manually purchases the ticket from an
agent server website administered by the agent server 110 (or from the lottery server
 108 direct), although the agent server 110 may automatically purchase the ticket upon
receipt of agreement. The ticket details are saved to the account in the database in
agent server 110.
[00034]      At step 212, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
receives result information relating to the lottery. The result information includes drawn
numbers for the lottery and awarded prizes. Elaborating further, the social networking
website and agent website receives and displays the result information from the agent
server 110 (or lottery server 108).
 [00035]     At step 214, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
 notifies the syndicate manager and other syndicate members of the result information
(irrespective of a win). The agent server 110 can also accesses ticket information stored
 in a database to identify the winning syndicate ticket based on the received result
 information.

                                                7
[00036]    At step 216, the agent server 110 electronically pays an awarded prize to
each syndicate member including the syndicate manager according to the portion they
are due. Elaborating further, the prize is automatically paid to member accounts.
[00037]    At step 218, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
amends the syndicate membership. Elaborating further, an existing syndicate member
may send a removal request or the syndicate manager may invite others to join the
syndicate.
[00038]    Another syndicate lottery method 300 performed using the system 100 is now
described in detail below.
[00039]    At step 302, the agent server 110 registers a lottery syndicate manager.
Elaborating further, a social networking website user operating computer 104, registers
as a lottery syndicate manager and creates an associated manager account in a
database of the agent server 110. The manager operating computer 104 uses an
agent's website hosted by the agent server 110 to register the manager account.
 [00040]    At step 304, the agent server 110 receives from the bank server 114,
confirmation of a deposit of funds for purchasing lottery tickets from the lottery syndicate
 manager. The manager operating computer 104 uses an agent's website hosted by the
 agent server 110 to electronically transfer the funds now associated with the manager
 account.
 [00041]    At step 306, the agent server 110 receives confirmation of lottery syndicate
 conditions selected by the lottery syndicate manager operating computer 104. The
 conditions relate to the identification of a lottery draw, type of lottery game, selection of
 numbers (e.g. random or manual number selection), number of draws to enter the same
 selection of numbers, or division of winnings among syndicate members (which need
 not be equal).
 [00042]    At step 308, the agent server 110 connected to lottery server 108
 automatically purchases a lottery syndicate ticket in accordance with the manager
 specified conditions at step 306 and using the deposited funds at step 304. The ticket
 purchase details are saved in the manager account and the server 110 allocates a
 desired number of syndicate shares in the ticket (e.g. one share per syndicate member).

                                              8
[00043]     At step 310, and only after the syndicate ticket purchase with funds in credit
at step 308, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102 enables
the syndicate manager to share one or more invitations to prospective members of a
lottery syndicate associated with the purchased syndicate ticket. Elaborating further,
the syndicate manager operating computer 104 sends invitations using the social
networking website to connections (e.g. friends who are prospective members of the
lottery syndicate) via their computers 106. The invitations are either sent as a general
broadcast to all connections or to individual connections selected by the syndicate
manager.
[00044]     At step 312, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
receives and stores in the manager account, confirmation of connections joining the
syndicate. The agent server 110 allocates syndicate ticket shares to the connections,
typically one share per connection. Each connection also has an agent server account
managed by bank server 114. Shares are only allocated by the agent server 110, so
that the connection effectively joins the ticket syndicate, once the commensurate funds
are transferred to the account and the agent server 110 is notified accordingly.
 [00045]     At query step 314, prior to a predetermined cancellation period (e.g. one
 hour) before the lottery draw, the agent server 110 confirms to the syndicate manager
operating computer 104 (using either the social networking or agent website) whether or
 not all shares in the syndicate are sold.
 [00046]     If the syndicate ticket shares are all sold, the lottery draw is awaited and
 method 300 proceeds to step 322 below. Otherwise, the method 300 proceeds to step
 316.
 [00047]     At query step 316, the agent server 110 receives confirmation from the
 syndicate manager operating computer 104 whether the syndicate ticket purchase
 should be cancelled for want of joined syndicate members, whereby shares in the
 syndicate ticket still remain un-purchased.
 [00048]      If shares have previously been offered for sale to the public at step 318 and
 the syndicate manager operating computer 104 declines purchase of the remaining
 syndicate shares, the agent server 110 receives confirmation from the syndicate

                                             9
manager operating computer 104 that the ticket purchase is to be cancelled at step 320
below.
[00049]     Alternatively, the agent server 110 receives confirmation from the syndicate
manager operating computer 104 to send a public invitation, via a public broadcast, on
the social networking website to buy the remaining shares in the syndicate ticket at step
318.
[00050]     At step 318, the agent server 110 connected to social networking server 102
sends a public invitation to interested users of the social networking website to
purchase any remaining shares in the lottery syndicate.
 [00051]    At step 320, the agent server 110 receives confirmation from the syndicate
manager operating computer 104 to cancel the syndicate ticket purchase. The agent
server 110 thereby issues electronic refunds to the accounts of each of the syndicate
 members including the syndicate manager.
 [00052]    At step 322, the agent server 110 electronically transfers any winnings from
the lottery draw associated with the syndicate ticket into the syndicate members
 accounts based upon their allocation of syndicate shares.
 [00053]    At step 324, the agent server 110 validates the age and identity of each
 syndicate member before they can withdraw the winnings from their account.
 [00054]    A person skilled in the art will appreciate that many embodiments and
 variations can be made without departing from the ambit of the present invention.
 [00055]     For example, agreement from syndicate members of one or more conditions
 relating to playing of a lottery (as per step 208 above) may be performed prior to or
 concurrently with the step of receiving acceptance of the invitations to form the lottery
 syndicate (as per step 206 above).
 [00056]     At step 210 above, the syndicate lottery ticket was purchased online.
 Alternatively, the method 200 may include the step of generating and printing a form
 including the agreed syndicate conditions to be used by the syndicate manager in

                                             10
manually purchasing the syndicate lottery ticket. In one embodiment, the form may be
electronically read by a scanner when purchasing the ticket.
[00057]     In one embodiment, the syndicate lottery steps may be performed by (and
integrated into) the social networking server 102.
[00058]    The social networking server 102 would typically be a Facebook or MySpace
server. In other embodiments, the server may be a Twitter or e-mail server.
[00059]     In one embodiment, prior to step 314, the agent server 110 electronically
reminds the syndicate manager of the impending lottery draw deadline.
[00060]     The confirmation of payment may be the payment itself (i.e. funds appearing
in an account), or approval of an electronic funds transfer (EFT).
[00061]     In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the
invention is not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein
described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect.

                                                  11
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.       An online social networking system configured to facilitate an online lottery
syndicate system including:
         a lottery server for issuing lottery tickets associated with a lottery;
         a lottery syndicate manager computer for enabling a lottery syndicate manager to
arrange purchase of a lottery syndicate ticket in the lottery;
         a social networking administrator server configured to facilitate the purchase of
shares in the syndicate by prospective members through a social networking website;
and
         an agent server for:
                 receiving confirmation of payment by the lottery syndicate manager,
                 receiving lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery syndicate
         manager,
                 purchasing the lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said confirmation of
         payment and based upon said lottery syndicate conditions,
                 allocating a plurality of shares to the purchased lottery syndicate ticket,
                 prior to a cancellation time, determining whether all syndicate shares in
         the syndicate are sold,
                 sending confirmation to the lottery syndicate manager indicating that all
         the syndicate shares in the syndicate have not been sold; and
                 receiving a cancellation request of the lottery syndicate ticket from the
         lottery syndicate manager,
wherein the social networking administrator server is configured to facilitate the
purchase of shares by the prospective members electronically and without requiring the
prospective members to pay the lottery syndicate manager.
2.       A system as claimed in claim 1, further including a social networking server to
facilitate inviting prospective members to purchase shares in the lottery syndicate ticket.
3.       A system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the prospective members are
connections of the lottery syndicate manager.
4.       A system as claimed in claim 1, further including one or more prospective
syndicate member computers for enabling payment to purchase shares in the lottery
syndicate ticket.

                                               12
5.      A system as claimed in claim 1, further including at least one financial server for
administering financial accounts for syndicate members and for receiving payments.
6.      An agent server of a social networking system, the agent server configured to:
        receive confirmation of payment by a lottery syndicate manager;
        receive lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery syndicate manager;
        receive confirmation of the purchase of shares in a syndicate by prospective
members through a social networking website;
        purchase a lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said confirmation of payment
and according to said lottery syndicate conditions;
        allocate a plurality of shares to the purchased lottery syndicate ticket;
        prior to a cancellation time, determine whether all syndicate shares in the
syndicate are sold;
        send confirmation to the lottery syndicate manager indicating that all the
syndicate shares in the syndicate have not been sold; and
        receive a cancellation request of the lottery syndicate ticket from the lottery
syndicate manager.
7.      A method for managing a social networking system, the method involving the
steps of:
    an agent server receiving confirmation of payment by a lottery syndicate manager;
    the agent server receiving lottery syndicate conditions selected by the lottery
syndicate manager;
    a social networking administrator server facilitating the purchase of shares in the
syndicate by prospective members through a social networking website;
    the agent server purchasing a lottery syndicate ticket upon receipt of said
confirmation of payment and based upon said lottery syndicate conditions
    the agent server allocating a plurality of shares to the purchased lottery syndicate
ticket;
    prior to a cancellation time, the agent server determining whether all syndicate
shares in the syndicate are sold;
    the agent server sending confirmation to the lottery syndicate manager indicating
that all the syndicate shares in the syndicate have not been sold; and
    the agent server receiving a cancellation request of the lottery syndicate ticket from
the lottery syndicate manager;

                                               13
    wherein the social networking administrator server is configured to facilitate the
purchase of shares by the prospective members electronically and without requiring the
prospective members to pay the lottery syndicate manager.
8.      A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein during purchasing, the agent server
allocates shares in the lottery syndicate ticket.
9.      A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the agent server allocates shares,
whether equal or otherwise, to syndicate members' accounts upon receipt of payment
from syndicate members.
10. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein prior to a predetermined cancellation
period before a lottery draw associated with the lottery syndicate ticket, the agent server
confirms to the lottery syndicate manager that all shares in the syndicate are sold.
11.   A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the agent server electronically transfers
any winnings associated with the lottery syndicate ticket into syndicate members'
accounts based upon share allocation.
12. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the agent server validates the age or
identity syndicate members before they can withdraw winnings from associated
accounts.
13.     A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein prior to a predetermined cancellation
period before a lottery draw associated with the lottery syndicate ticket and subsequent
to the agent server confirming to the lottery syndicate manager that all shares in the
lottery syndicate ticket are not sold, the agent server receives a cancellation request of
lottery the syndicate ticket from the lottery syndicate manager.
14.     A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the lottery syndicate manager sends
one or more invitations to prospective members of a lottery syndicate associated with
the purchased lottery syndicate ticket.
15.     A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein the invitations are sent to connections
of the lottery syndicate manager via social media.

                                             14
16.     A method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the invitations are either broadcast to
all connections or sent to selected connections.
17.     A method as claimed in claim 7, which prior to a predetermined cancellation
period before a lottery draw associated with the lottery syndicate ticket and subsequent
to the agent server confirming to the lottery syndicate manager that all shares in the
lottery syndicate ticket are not sold, further includes the step of sending public
invitations via social media to join the syndicate by purchasing shares in the lottery
syndicate ticket.
18. A method as claimed in claim 7, further involving the agent server cancelling the
lottery syndicate ticket purchase and issuing electronic refunds to the accounts of the
syndicate members including the lottery syndicate manager.
19. A method as claimed in claim 7, further involving the agent server electronically
transferring any winnings from a lottery draw associated with the lottery syndicate ticket
into syndicate members accounts based upon an allocation of syndicate shares.
20. A method as claimed in claim 7, further involving the agent server validating the
age or identity syndicate members before withdrawing winnings from accounts.
21.     A social networking lottery method including the step of:
      sending, using a social networking server, an invitation to a prospective member of
a lottery syndicate.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
