                                                 17
Abstract
The present invention relates to a plant for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages, comprising a
rectification column (26) having at least one inlet for the alcoholic beverage, a sump and a
top, wherein the rectification column (26) is operable such that dealcoholised beverage can
be removed from the sump and exhaust vapour can be removed from the top, at least one
evaporator (27) which is configured to supply the rectification column (26) with vapour; and a
condenser arrangement (30) for condensing the exhaust vapour removed from the top of the
rectification column (26) at least in part. The plant further comprises a heat pump (70) which
can operate the evaporator (27) as well as the condenser arrangement (30). The invention
also relates to a method for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages in a rectification column.
(Fig. 1)

            1/2
                to UM
ul.0
     v'
        C',

                            Australian Patents Act 1990
              ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                             STANDARD PATENT
                                      Invention Title
                     Plant for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
                           of performing it known to me/us:-

                                                  1a
                                            Description
The present invention relates to a plant for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages, comprising a
rectification column with at least one inlet for the alcoholic beverage, a sump and a top, the
rectification column being operable such that dealcoholised beverage can be removed from
the sump and exhaust vapour can be removed from the top, at least one evaporator which is
configured to supply the rectification column with vapour, and a condenser arrangement for
condensing the exhaust vapour removed from the top of the rectification column at least in
part.
Due to a recently intensified health awareness, there is a recognisable market trend for
alcohol-free or low-alcohol beverages. For example, in recent years, a significant increase
can be noted in the sales of dealcoholised beer and wine. These types of beverages are
produced in that sugary or starchy starting products firstly undergo an alcoholic fermentation
and are then dealcoholised. Since the mentioned beverages contain a large number of
flavours which develop not least during the alcoholic fermentation, the dealcoholisation
process should be carried out as carefully as possible to adversely affect the taste of the
beverage as little as possible.
Rectification columns are used in known plants for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages, into
which columns the alcoholic beverage is fed after being preheated and optionally degassed.
Degassing is particularly necessary in the case of carbonated beverages, such as beer, to
prevent the beverage from frothing up in the rectification column. The alcohol is separated
out of the beverage in the stripping section of the rectification column, and the then
dealcoholised beverage collects in the sump of the column, while the alcohol rises into the
top of the column as exhaust vapour.
If appropriate, it is possible to connect to the rectification column a concentrating part in
which the alcohol contained in the exhaust vapour is strengthened to a higher concentration.
The alcohol exhaust vapour concentrated thus which, furthermore, can also contain flavours
removed together therewith from the alcoholic beverage is condensed in a condenser
arrangement. Inknown plants, a cooling medium is used in the condenser, to which cooling
medium the condensing exhaust vapour releases its condensation energy, and which is
cooled to the temperature required for this purpose by means of a refrigerating machine.
Incontrast thereto, an evaporator is operated on or in the sump of the column to generate
the vapours or exhaust vapours required for the rectification. This evaporator is usually

                                                  2
heated by live steam or hot water. Thus, considerable amounts of energy are required at
each of two points in the known plants, namely for the condensation of the alcohol exhaust
vapours and for heating the evaporator associated with the rectification column. Depending
on the size and temporal throughput of the plant, the total power to be applied for this
purpose is a significant cost factor during continuous operation.
It is therefore the object of the present invention to provide a generic plant for dealcoholising
alcoholic beverages, which is distinguished by an increased energy efficiency and thus by a
cost-saving operation.
To achieve this object, the plant according to the invention for dealcoholising alcoholic
beverages further comprises a heat pump which can operate the at least one evaporator as
well as the condenser arrangement. The provision, according to the invention, of the heat
pump, makes it possible to use the heat generated during the condensation of the alcoholic
exhaust vapour to operate the evaporator, which is advantageously reflected in the overall
energy balance of the plant.
In a possible embodiment, the plant according to the invention further comprises for this
purpose a heating circuit, containing a heating medium, for heating the evaporator and
comprises a cooling circuit, containing a cooling medium, for cooling the condenser
arrangement, the heat pump being operable here to transfer the heat from the cooling
medium leaving the condenser arrangement to the heating medium leaving the evaporator.
This constructional measure creates two separate circuits which are thermally coupled
together by the heat pump and by the evaporating and condensing exhaust vapour and the
overall energy balance of which must be balanced in continuous operation in order to be
able to ensure a stable operation of the plant. The thermal output which is input into the
heating circuit by the waste heat of the heat pump, due to the construction thereof, must in
some circumstances be removed again from the plant in a different location.
This could be performed, for example, in that the dealcoholised beverage is removed from
the plant at a higher temperature than that at which the alcoholic beverage is introduced into
the plant. However, since it is advantageous for reasons of storage quality and for the
careful processing of the beverage to supply this beverage and also to remove it from the
plant at the lowest possible temperature, the additional thermal energy input into the plant by
the heat pump is preferably removed by other measures. For example, for this purpose it is
possible to associate with the heating circuit and/or with the cooling circuit at least one heat

                                                  3
exchanger which can remove heat from the plant. This heat exchanger can be configured,
for example, such that cooling water circulates therein, which cooling water cools the heating
medium leaving the evaporator before the heating medium is fed to the heat pump.
In an alternative embodiment, the plant according to the invention can be configured such
that the heat pump comprises a mechanical exhaust vapour compressor which is arranged
to compress exhaust vapour removed from the top of the rectification column and to feed it
as heating medium to the evaporator, so that the evaporator also forms at least one part of
the condenser arrangement.
In this embodiment of a plant according to the invention, the heating circuit and the cooling
circuit can be omitted. Furthermore, as already mentioned, at least one part of the
condenser arrangement is also formed by the evaporator, so that here as well, it is possible
to make savings in the construction of the plant according to the invention. Known devices
can be used as the mechanical exhaust vapour compressor, for example radial ventilators,
turbocompressors or Roots blowers. The power of the mechanical exhaust vapour
compressor can be controllable or regulatable during operation to adjust the overall energy
balance of the plant. It is found that the use of a mechanical exhaust vapour compressor is
advantageous in terms of energy and economic operation, particularly in large plants with a
high beverage throughput.
Although during continuous operation of the plant according to the invention, due to the input
of thermal energy by the heat pump, the overall energy balance of the plant tends to be such
that heat must be removed from the plant by the heat exchanger mentioned above, it can be
advantageous or even necessary, particularly when starting up or heating up the plant, to
introduce heat into the plant from outside to bring the plant to its operating temperature. For
this purpose, it is possible to associate with the heat pump, with the heating circuit and/or
with the cooling circuit a heating device, for example a steam injector, which accordingly
heats the exhaust vapour, the heating medium and/or the cooling medium.
If the heat exchanger mentioned above is provided for removing heat from the plant, and
likewise if the heating device is provided, it can be advantageous to allocate the heat
exchanger and the heating device to the same circuit, to the heating circuit or cooling circuit.
In particular, an allocation to the heating circuit affords the advantages that on the one hand,
the evaporator can come rapidly to its operating temperature by the heating and on the other

                                                   4
hand, due to the removal of heat by the heat exchanger at the elevated temperature of the
heating medium, this heat exchange can take place with an increased efficiency.
In a development of the plant according to the invention, said pant can comprise a
compressor pump which is arranged to compress residual exhaust vapour which issues in
gas form from the condenser arrangement. Using this compressor pump, it can be ensured
that a vacuum prevails in the components of the plant which are located upstream, in
particular in the rectification column, as a result of which the boiling points of the liquids to be
evaporated are lowered and the outgassing of gases dissolved in the beverage is promoted.
In a preferred development, it is possible to arrange in the flow direction of the residual
exhaust vapour downstream of the compressor pump a separator for separating liquid
components of the residual exhaust vapour, and optionally also an aroma heat exchanger
which is arranged to transfer heat from the liquid components of the residual exhaust vapour
to the cooling medium. In the separator, gaseous components of the exhaust vapour, for
example carbon dioxide, are separated from the remaining liquid aroma components. Since
the aroma heat exchanger also releases its heat to the cooling circuit, it is possible to
achieve an advantageous integration and a further improved energy efficiency, since it is
possible to dispense with a separate cooling at this point. Alternatively, a cooling by means
of a cooling water circuit or the like is naturally also conceivable.
Furthermore, the plant according to the invention can comprise in the flow direction of the
alcoholic beverage upstream of the inlet of the rectification column at least one device for
preheating the alcoholic beverage, optionally a heat exchanger which is arranged to transfer
heat from the dealcoholised beverage to the alcoholic beverage, and/or a heat exchanger
which is configured to transfer heat from the heating medium to the alcoholic beverage.
As mentioned above, the alcoholic beverage is usually delivered in a cooled state to the
plant. For this reason, it is desirable to preheat the alcoholic beverage to ensure that the
process takes place correctly and efficiently in the rectification column. Since this preheating
takes place against the dealcoholised beverage removed from the sump of the column at an
elevated temperature, some of the thermal output applied in the column can be recovered.
Furthermore, a preheating by means of the heating medium circulating in the heating circuit
increases the degree of integration of the entire plant, so that here as well, savings are
possible. However, alternatively or additionally, it is naturally also possible to use other or
further heat exchangers which are operated with an external heating medium, for example
with live steam.

                                                 5
As also already mentioned, it is possible to provide in the flow direction of the alcoholic
beverage upstream of the inlet of the rectification column a degassing device which
preferably comprises a separator, in which case the degassing device is optionally
connected to the condenser arrangement such that the gases outgassed from the alcoholic
beverage can be fed together with the exhaust vapour removed from the top of the
rectification column to the condenser arrangement.
While in known generic plants, it is usual to provide as degassing devices expansion tanks
with installations for separating or destroying the resulting froth, or degasification tanks with
a plurality of obliquely arranged degassing trays, over which the beverage to be degassed is
guided, or nozzles, in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the degassing device
can comprise a falling film tube bundle which can preferably be heated by a heating means.
In this preferred embodiment of the degassing device, the beverage to be degassed is
distributed uniformly over the tubes of the falling film tube bundle by a distributor device. The
escaping carbon dioxide, together with the resulting exhaust vapour pulverises the froth in
the downstream direction by its shear force. The liquid and the gas are finally separated from
one another in the separator provided at the lower end of the falling film tube bundle.
In a preferred embodiment, the condenser arrangement of the plant according to the
invention can comprise at least one horizontally arranged shell and tube condenser and/or at
least one upright shell and tube condenser, and furthermore the condenser arrangement can
preferably comprise firstly a horizontally arranged shell and tube condenser and then an
upright shell and tube condenser in the flow direction of the exhaust vapour, in which case in
particular the cooling medium can firstly flow through the upright shell and tube condenser
and then through the horizontal shell and tube condenser.
However, alternatively or additionally, other types of condensers can also be used, for
example plate condensers, thermo-plate condensers or mixing condensers.
Since the cooling medium firstly flows through the part of the condenser arrangement which
is located downstream for the exhaust vapour and then through the upstream part of the
condenser arrangement, it can be ensured that the cooling medium is at its lowest
temperature in the last condenser stage, so that the desired operation of the condenser
arrangement can be ensured.
The present invention also relates to a method for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages in a
rectification column, to be preferably carried out in a plant according to the invention,

                                                  6
dealcoholised beverage collecting in the sump of the rectification column and exhaust
vapour collecting in the top of the rectification column, and furthermore the rectification
column being supplied with vapour by an evaporator and the exhaust vapour from the top of
the rectification column being condensed in a condenser arrangement.
In this case, the at least one evaporator and the condenser arrangement are operated
according to the invention by a single heat pump. As stated above, the joint operation of the
condenser arrangement and of the evaporator by a single heat pump provides advantages in
terms of energy which are reflected in reduced operating costs of the plant.
While in known plants, the dealcoholised beverage is usually fed to the evaporator to
generate therefrom the vapour required for rectification, according to the invention, water, for
example brewing water, can preferably be evaporated in the evaporator. In this way, it is
possible to reduce the residence time of the dealcoholised beverage in the plant at elevated
temperature, so that the entire dealcoholisation process takes place in a particularly careful
manner and the desired beverage quality can be ensured. The use of brewing water also
ensures that the quality of the beverage is not impaired and at the same time, unavoidable
losses of liquid in the rectification column can be immediately compensated.
Further features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
following description of two embodiments shown in the accompanying figures, in which:
Fig. 1 shows a first embodiment of a plant according to the invention; and
Fig. 2 shows a second embodiment of a plant according to the invention.
Fig. 1 schematically shows a first embodiment of a plant according to the invention for
dealcoholising alcoholic beverages, which plant is denoted very generally by reference
numeral 10 and can be used to dealcoholise beer, for example.
The alcoholic beverage is introduced into the plant 10 in a product feed 12, and at this stage
usually has a relatively low temperature of typically 20C, since said beverage is usually
transported and delivered in a cooled state. Furthermore, delivered alcoholic beer contains
2.5% - 8% (typically approximately 5%) of alcohol and 4-6 g/I of C02. Provided in parallel
with the product feed 12 is a connection 14 for flushing water, by means of which the entire
plant can be flushed for cleaning purposes.

                                                 7
The alcoholic beverage, introduced into the plant 10 through the product feed 12, initially
passes through a first heat exchanger 16 and then through a second heat exchanger 18, in
which heat exchangers said beverage is preheated in stages. After issuing from the second
heat exchanger 18, the alcoholic beverage then passes at an elevated temperature into the
degassing device 20 which is configured as a falling film tube bundle. In the degassing
device 20, the alcoholic beverage is firstly distributed uniformly over the plurality of tubes of
the falling film tube bundle, which can furthermore be heated from outside by a heating
device (not shown). The C02 escaping from the beverage in the falling film tube bundle,
together with the resulting exhaust vapour, pounds the resulting froth in the downstream flow
by its shear force.
Furthermore, the degassing device 20 comprises a separator 22 in which the alcoholic
beverage, which has now for the most part been degassed, and the gas are separated. The
droplets of liquid separated in the separator 22 are pumped, together with the degassed
alcoholic beverage collected in the sump of the degassing device 20, to a rectification
column 26 by a first pump 24. The alcoholic beverage is fed to the middle part of the
rectification column 26. The vapour required for rectification is generated by an evaporator
27 which is described further on.
In the rectification column 26, packings are typically provided as column installations for the
separation procedure, however alternatively fillers or column trays can also be used in all
kinds of configurations. By the effect of the compressor pump 38 which is described further
on, a reduced pressure compared to the surroundings is generated in the interior of the
rectification column 26, for example a pressure of 50 to 200 mbar, typically of approximately
100 mbar.
In the stripping part of the rectification column 26, the alcohol component is almost
completely separated from the alcoholic beverage by the rising exhaust vapour. The
beverage dealcoholised in this manner collects in the sump of the column 26 and, by setting
construction and operating parameters, such as the height of the packed bed of the
rectification column 26 and the energy used, and when the alcohol content of the alcoholic
beverage which was fed in is known, it is possible to set the desired residual alcohol content
of the dealcoholised beverage. Typically, residual alcohol contents of approximately 0 to
5000 ppm are possible, and residual alcohol contents of <500 ppm are typically set. The
beverage which is degassed and dealcoholised in this manner and which is also at an
elevated temperature due to the rectification procedure can be pumped out of the sump of
the rectification column 26 by a second pump 28 and guided through the first heat

                                                8
exchanger 16, where it releases some of the heat which it has absorbed in the rectification
column to newly fed-in alcoholic beverage so that the absorbed heat is transferred to the
alcoholic beverage at least in part and thus continues to be used. Before the dealcoholised
beverage is removed from the plant at reference numeral 29 and is transferred into storage
tanks for example, further cooling stages can be provided to cool said beverage to a desired
storage temperature, as well as a carbonisation process and further processes to enhance
the flavour, such as a back-mixing of fresh beer or the addition of aroma components.
The exhaust vapour which collects in the top of the rectification column 26 is fed, together
with the gaseous fraction separated in the separator 22, to a condenser arrangement 30
consisting of a first condenser stage 30a and a second condenser stage 30b. In this case,
the first condenser stage 30a is configured as a horizontally arranged shell and tube
condenser in which most of the alcohol contained in the exhaust vapour is condensed. This
condensed alcohol is conveyed into a tank 32, from where it can either be removed from the
plant at reference numeral 36 by a further pump 34 and further processed, or fed back into
the top of the rectification column 26, as a result of which a concentrating effect up to an
alcohol concentration of typically approximately 80 % can be achieved.
The residual exhaust vapour which remains after the first condenser stage and which has
not yet been condensed is fed to the second condenser stage 30b, which is configured as
an upright shell and tube condenser. Alcohol condensing therein is also fed to the tank 32 to
be further used. The residual exhaust vapour which is now mostly alcohol-free is drawn up
by suction by the aforementioned compressor pump 38 which, as mentioned, also provides
the desired vacuum in the upstream components. Here, the compressor pump 38 can be
configured, for example, as a liquid ring vacuum pump, as a dry-running vacuum pump or as
a jet pump. The residual exhaust vapour which has been compressed by the compressor
pump 38 can be returned into the second condenser stage 30b to regulate the vacuum or
fed to a separator or washer 40, a proportioned distribution between these two options also
being possible.
The gases which evolve in the separator 40 and which are in particular the carbon dioxide
outgassed in the degassing device are released into the atmosphere at reference numeral
42. The liquid components, which are separated in the separator 40, and which primarily
comprise flavour components of the alcoholic beverage entrained by the alcohol exhaust
vapours in the rectification column 26 as well as alcohol residues, are guided proportionately

                                                  9
to an aroma heat exchanger 44 and removed from the plant at reference numeral 48 by a
pump 46 or pumped back into the top of the separator 40.
The plant 10 shown in Fig. 1 is distinguished in that it comprises two closed circuits, namely
a heating circuit 50 in which a heating medium circulates, and a cooling circuit 60 in which a
cooling medium circulates. The thermal connection between the heating circuit 50 and the
cooling circuit 60 is established, inter alia, by a heat pump 70 which pumps heat from the
cooling circuit to the heating circuit in the manner of a reverse refrigerating machine.
To illustrate the operation of the two circuits, the circulation of the heating medium in the
heating circuit 50 will firstly be considered, starting with its exit from the heat pump 70 at
which it is at an elevated temperature. It should be noted here that the heating liquid can be
represented by water, for example, which rules out a contamination of the liquid foodstuffs
processed in the plant 10, for example during the occurrence of leaks.
The heating medium issuing at an elevated temperature from the heat pump 70 is circulated
by a pump 52. Furthermore, provided in the region of pump 52 is an inlet 54, via which
heating medium, i.e. water for example, can be fed into the heating circuit 50, for example if
losses have occurred. In addition, associated with the heating circuit is a heating device 56
which can comprise a steam injector, for example.
Although during continuous operation, the thermal energy which is input into the heating
circuit 50 by the heat pump is more than sufficient for compensating losses, when the plant
10 is started up, the heating medium must firstly be brought to a satisfactory temperature for
correctly operating the evaporator 27. This task can be accomplished by the heating device
56, it being possible for the heating device 56 to be shut down again during continuous
operation after the plant 10 has been started up.
The heating medium then passes through the second heat exchanger 18 described above,
in which it releases some of its heat to the supplied alcoholic beverage to preheat it.
Thereafter, the heating medium passes into the evaporator 27, whereupon vapour for
operating the rectification column is generated in the evaporator by the heat released from
the heating medium.
The heating medium then issues again from the evaporator 27 and is fed into a further heat
exchanger 58 which can remove heat from the heating circuit 50. This heat exchanger 58 for
removing heat from the heating circuit 50 is required for adjusting the overall energy balance

                                                 10
of the plant 10. As already mentioned, additional thermal energy is input into the heating
circuit 50 by the mechanical drive power of the heat pump 70. Since the heat transferred to
the heating circuit 50 from the cooling circuit 60 remains in the plant and the beverage is
also preferably removed from the plant at a temperature similar to that at which it was
introduced, the additionally input thermal power of the heat pump 70 can be removed by the
heat exchanger 58 to prevent the plant 10 from undesirably heating up. For this purpose, a
source 59 of cooling water can be provided, for example, which provides the heat exchanger
58 with cooling water.
The heating medium, which has now released some of its heat in the various heat
exchangers and in the evaporator, is fed back into the heat pump 70 at this point and is
reheated. As mentioned, the energy required for heating the heating medium in the heating
circuit 50 is removed from a cooling medium circulating in the cooling circuit 60, shown in
dashed lines.
Also associated with the cooling circuit 60 is a source 62 of cooling medium, by which
cooling medium can be fed into the cooling circuit 60. The cooling medium can also be
water, which likewise affords the advantages mentioned above in connection with the
heating medium. Provided in the cooling circuit 60 is a cooling medium pump 64 which
keeps the cooling medium circulating.
The cooling medium cooled by the effect of the heat pump 70 is firstly guided to the aroma
heat exchanger 44 described above where, as mentioned, it absorbs some of the heat of the
liquid components of the residual exhaust vapour which have been separated in the
separator 40. The cooling medium then successively flows through the second condenser
stage 30b and the first condenser stage 30a where it absorbs the condensation heat of the
exhaust vapour components which are condensing in these condenser stages.
The cooling medium heated in this manner is then returned to the heat pump 70, from which
the heat absorbed in the last circulation is again transferred to the heating medium. Thus, it
is seen that the heating circuit 50 and the cooling circuit 60 are both interconnected by the
heat pump 70, as mentioned, and also, however, indirectly interconnected via the exhaust
vapour which is condensing in the condenser arrangement 30 and which both releases its
condensation heat to the cooling medium and has been previously evaporated by the
thermal output of the heating medium which has released the heating medium in the
evaporator 27.

                                               11
It should be added that although the evaporator 27 can already evaporate dealcoholised
beverage in order to operate the rectification column, for example in that it is configured as a
simple sump evaporator in which the hot heating medium is guided in tubes through the
sump of the rectification column 26 and there produces exhaust vapour, a source 72 for
brewing water can also be provided for evaporation. Evaporating this brewing water in the
evaporator 27 instead of the beverage from the sump of the rectification column 26 can
extend the life and reduce the heating of the dealcoholised beverage, which has a positive
effect on the sensory characteristics of the beverage.
To introduce the brewing water into the evaporator 27 and to circulate it therein, a brewing
water pump 74 is also provided, it being possible to introduce the brewing water, provided by
the brewing water source 72, in excess and to discharge it again via the outflow 76 to
prevent a concentration of ingredients.
It is also mentioned that exemplary temperature values for the heating medium are 600C
when it issues from the heat pump and 500C when it enters the heat pump, while the cooling
medium can enter the heat pump at 200C and can issue therefrom having been cooled to
150C.
Fig. 2 shows a second embodiment of a plant according to the invention which is denoted
very generally by reference numeral 100. Many components of plant 100 correspond to
those of plant 10 of the first embodiment and have been given the same reference numerals,
increased by 100. In contrast to the first embodiment from Fig. 1, plant 100 of the second
embodiment does not comprise the two circuits 50 and 60, but comprises a mechanical
exhaust vapour compressor 170 which directly compresses the exhaust vapour from the
rectification column 126.
Similarly to the first embodiment, an alcoholic beverage is introduced into the plant 100 at
reference numeral 112 and is preheated by two heat exchangers 116 and 118. In this case,
unlike in the first embodiment, the second heat exchanger 118 is operated by means of a
vapour source 119. The alcoholic beverage is then fed into the degassing device 120 with its
associated separator 122, the operation of which corresponds to that of Fig. 1.
The beverage which has been degassed thus is fed into the rectification column 126,
reference being made to the description of column 26 from Fig. 1 for the description of
column 126. While the dealcoholised beverage in plant 100 from Fig. 2 is removed from the
plant 100 at reference numeral 129 in a similar manner to plant 10 of Fig. 1, the exhaust

                                                 12
vapour which collects in the top of the rectification column 126 is fed to the mechanical
exhaust vapour compressor 170, which assumes the function of the heat pump in plant 100.
Furthermore, also provided here is the heating device 158 which, in a manner similar to that
described above, can comprise a live steam feed and can be used to start up the plant.
In this case, the mechanical exhaust vapour compressor 170 can be configured as a radial
ventilator, a turbocompressor or as a Roots blower, and it increases the energy content of
the exhaust vapour by mechanical compression. The exhaust vapour which is thus
compressed and concentrated in terms of energy is then fed as a heating medium to the
evaporator 127, where it both generates the vapour required for operating the rectification
column and itself condenses. In this way, the evaporator 127 in plant 100 from Fig. 2 also
assumes the task of a condenser.
Analogously to the exhaust vapour which is condensed in the first condenser stage 30a in
the embodiment of Fig. 1, the exhaust vapour which is condensed in the evaporator 127 is
fed into a tank 132, from where it can be removed at reference numeral 136 by means of a
pump 134 or fed into the top of the rectification column 126 again.
Since, as mentioned, the exhaust vapour from the rectification column 126 is condensed in
the evaporator 127, the gas which has been outgassed in the degassing device 120 is fed
alone to the upright shell and tube condenser 130b, which corresponds to the second
condenser stage 30b from Fig. 1. This upright shell and tube condenser 130b is cooled by a
source 131 of cooling water, and condensate resulting in the condenser is also fed into the
tank 132. Connected to the upright shell and tube condenser 130b, analogously to plant 10
from Fig. 1, are a compressor pump 138, a separator 140 from which gas is released into
the atmosphere at reference numeral 142, and an aroma heat exchanger 144 with an aroma
pump 146, by which the condensed aromas can be removed from plant 100 at reference
numeral 148. It should merely be noted that the aroma heat exchanger 144 also has to be
cooled by an external cooling source 145, because as mentioned, there is no central cooling
circuit in plant 100.
Although plant 100, unlike plant 10 from Fig. 1, does not have a closed heating circuit or
cooling circuit, but additional energy for the heating and cooling of components of the plant
must be expended by the vapour source 119 and by the two cooling water sources 131 and
145 instead, plant 100 can operate in a more energy-efficient manner than plant 10 from Fig.
1, especially in large plants having a high beverage throughput rate, due to the outstanding
efficiency of the mechanical exhaust vapour compressor 170.

                                                13
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it)
or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavor to
which this specification relates.
The reference numerals in the following claims do not in any way limit the scope of the
respective claims.

                                                  14
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      Plant for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages, comprising:
        - a rectification column (26; 126) having at least one inlet for the alcoholic beverage,
a sump and a top, the rectification column (26; 126) being operable such that dealcoholised
beverage can be removed from the sump and exhaust vapour can be removed from the top;
        - at least one evaporator (27; 127) which is configured to supply the rectification
column (26; 126) with vapour; and
        - a condenser arrangement (30) for condensing the exhaust vapour removed from
the top of the rectification column (26; 126) at least in part;
characterised in that the plant further comprises a heat pump (70; 170) which can operate
the evaporator (27; 127) and the condenser arrangement (30).
2.      Plant according to claim 1, characterised in that it further comprises a heating circuit
(50), containing a heating medium, for heating the evaporator (27) and a cooling circuit (60),
containing a cooling medium, for cooling the condenser arrangement (30), it being possible
for the heat pump (70) to be operated so as to transfer heat from the cooling medium leaving
the condenser arrangement (30) to the heating medium leaving the evaporator (27).
3.      Plant according to claim 2, characterised in that associated with the heating circuit
(50) and/or with the cooling circuit (60) is at least one heat exchanger (58) which can remove
heat from the plant.
4.      Plant according to claim 1, characterised in that the heat pump (170) comprises a
mechanical exhaust vapour compressor which is arranged to compress exhaust vapour
removed from the top of the rectification column (126) and to feed it to the evaporator (127)
as heating medium, so that the evaporator (127) also forms at least one part of the
condenser arrangement.
5.      Plant according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that associated with
the heat pump (170), the heating circuit (50) and/or with the cooling circuit (60) is a heating
device (56; 156), for example a steam injector.
6.      Plant according to claim 5 when this refers back to claim 3, characterised in that the
heat exchanger (58) and the heating device (56) are associated with the same circuit,
heating circuit (50) or cooling circuit (60).

                                                15
7.      Plant according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that it comprises a
compressor pump (38; 138) which is arranged to compress residual exhaust vapour issuing
in gas form from the condenser arrangement (30; 130b).
8.      Plant according to claim 7, characterised in that arranged in the flow direction of the
residual exhaust vapour downstream of the compressor pump (38; 138) is a separator (40;
140) for separating liquid components of the residual exhaust vapour, and optionally an
aroma heat exchanger (44; 144) which is arranged to transfer heat from the liquid
components of the residual exhaust vapour to the cooling medium.
9.      Plant according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that it comprises in
the flow direction of the alcoholic beverage upstream of the inlet of the rectification column
(26; 126) at least one device for preheating the alcoholic beverage, optionally a heat
exchanger (16; 116) which is arranged to transfer heat from the dealcoholised beverage to
the alcoholic beverage, and/or a heat exchanger (18) which is configured to transfer heat
from the heating medium to the alcoholic beverage.
10.     Plant according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that provided in the
flow direction of the alcoholic beverage upstream of the inlet of the rectification column (26;
126) is a degassing device (20; 120) which preferably comprises a separator (22; 122), the
degassing device (20) being optionally connected to the condenser arrangement (30) such
that the gases outgassed from the alcoholic beverage can be fed together with the exhaust
vapour removed from the top of the rectification column (26) to the condenser arrangement.
11.     Plant according to claim 10, characterised in that the degassing device (20; 120)
comprises a falling film tube bundle which can preferably be heated by a heating device.
12.     Plant according to any of the preceding claims, characterised in that the condenser
arrangement (30) comprises at least one horizontally arranged shell and tube condenser
(30a) and/or at least one upright shell and tube condenser (30b).
13.     Plant according to claim 12, characterised in that the condenser arrangement (30)
comprises firstly a horizontally arranged shell and tube condenser (30a) and then an upright
shell and tube condenser (30b) in the flow direction of the exhaust vapour, the cooling
medium preferably firstly flowing through the upright shell and tube condenser (30a) and
then through the horizontal shell and tube condenser (30b).

                                                 16
14.      Method for dealcoholising alcoholic beverages in a rectification column, preferably to
be carried out in a plant (10; 100) according to any of the preceding claims, dealcoholised
beverage collecting in the sump of the rectification column (26; 126) and exhaust vapour
collecting in the top of the rectification column (26; 126), the rectification column (26; 126)
being supplied with vapour by at least one evaporator (27; 127), and the exhaust vapour
from the top of the rectification column (26; 126) being condensed in a condenser
arrangement (30); characterised in that the at least one evaporator (27; 127) as well as the
condenser arrangement (30) are operated by a single heat pump.
15.      Method according to claim 14, characterised in that water, for example brewing
water, is fed into the evaporator in order to be evaporated.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
