                                            ABSTRACT
   The present disclosure relates to valve replacement devices that are foldable for catheter
   based deployment to the site of implantation, as well as systems for the delivery of valve
 5 prostheses, including prostheses having the special characteristics of the disclosed valve
   replacement devices. The devices include highly effective adhering mechanisms for
   secure and enduring precision implantation. The adhering mechanisms may employ a
   unique sealing mechanism that includes a cuff that expands slowly whereby the device is
   not secured in place until the completion of the implantation procedure. The implanted
10 device, optionally together with the cuff, prevents perivalvular leaks and incorporate an
   appropriate leaflet system for reliable functioning in situ.

                                            VALVE PROSTHESIS
     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
                [0001]     The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No.
    61/241,659, filed November 5, 2009, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
    TECHNICAL FIELD
              [0002]   The present disclosure relates to anatomical valve replacement devices and
    methods and systems for replacing a valve and for delivering a stented device.
    BACKGROUND
             [0003)    The mitral valve is a complex structure whose competence relies on the precise
   interaction of annlus, leaflets, chordae, papillary muscles and left ventricle (LV). Pathologic
   changes in any of these structures can lead to valvular insufficiency. Myxomatous leaflet/chordal
   degeneration, and dilated ischemic cardiomyopathy secondary to chronic post infarction
   ventricular remodeling are among most common mechanisms producing mitral regurgitation
   (MR). These two disease processes account for about 78% of all cases of MR treated surgically.
            [0004]     As part of the Framingham Heart Study, the prevalence of mitral valve prolapse
  in Framingham, MA was estimated at 2.4%. There was a near-even split between classic and
  non-classic MVP, with no significant age or sex discrimination. Based on data gathered in the
  United States, MVP is prevalent in 7% of autopsies. The incidence of mitral regurgitation
  increases with age and is a frequent clinically significant medical problem in the post Ml
 population and patients with COPD.
           [0005]     The use of a catheter based percutaneous valved stent has been shown to be
 feasible in replacing both the human pulmonic and aortic valves. The pulmonic valve was the
 first to be successfully replaced by a percutaneous approach and is the finthest along in
 development. There are currently two aortic valve products in clinical trials and more in
 development. While there is a great deal of interest in replacing the mitral valve percutaneously
(not least because many patients that have suffered myocardial infarction are not fit for surgical
valve replacement) the anatomy and function of the mitral valve prevents direct application of
the cuIrent aortic/pulmonic technology. However, there have been recent efforts towards
developing mitral valve replacements that have focused on transapical valued stent implantation
(see Lozonschi L, et a!l, Transapicalintralvalved stent plantation. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008
                                                -1 -

  Sep; 86(3): 745-8); "double-crown" valved stent designs (see Ma L, et al., Double-crowned
  valved stentsfor off-pump mitral valve replacements. Eur J CardiothoracSurg. 2005 Aug; 28(2):
  194-8); and, valved stent designs consisting of two disks separated by a cylinder (see Boudjenline
  Y, et al., Steps toward the percutaneous replacement ofatrioventricularvalves an experimental
  study. J Am Coll Cardiol.2005 Jul 19; 46(2): 360-5).
            [0006]      It has presently been discovered that a successful percutaneously placed
 valve requires four major design characteristics. The valve must be compatible with acceptable
 delivery modalities, it must anchor to the valvular ring and seal the anchor point to prevent leaks,
 and the valve must function normally when in place. Among publicly available designs, there
 does not presently exist a percutaneous valved stent having the characteristics that are believed to
 be necessary for successful implantation, stability, and long-term functionality. A design having
 such characteristics would have profound medical implications both for those newly in need of
 valve replacement, and among patients that are currently fitted with the conventional valve
 designs.
           SUMMARY
 [0006aj In one aspect, there is provided a mitral valve prosthesis comprising: a stent having an
expanded and an unexpanded state and that includes a long axis; a middle region having first and
second ends and comprising a framework that defines inner and outer surfaces; a lower flange
portion at the first end of the middle region that comprises a plurality of flange elements, each of
said elements having a first end that is attached to the middle region and an opposed second end
that is spaced from the first end; and, an upper flange portion at the second end of the middle
region that comprises a plurality of flange elements, each of said elements having a first end that
is attached to the middle region and an opposed second end that is spaced from the first end; and,
a valve that is attached to the inner surface of the middle region of the stent, wherein, when said
stent is in the unexpanded state, the upper and lower flange portions are oriented substantially
along the long axis of the stent; when said stent transitions from the unexpanded state to the
expanded state, the lower flange portion transitions in space so that it is no longer oriented
substantially along the long axis of the stent; and, when said stent is in the expanded state, the
lower flange portion is positioned sufficiently close to the outer surface of the middle region of the
stent to grasp tissue at the ventricular side of the annulus by enfolding it between the lower flange
portion and the outer surface of the middle region in order to anchor the stent at the ventricular
side of the annulus, and the upper flange portion is positioned sufficiently close to the outer
surface of the middle region of the stent to grasp tissue at the atrial side of the annulus by
enfolding it between the upper flange portion and the outer surface of the middle region in order to
anchor the stent at the atrial side of the annulus
                                                    2

            [0007]      There is also described herein a vascular reducer comprising:
 a stent-based platform adapted for percutaneous delivery and anchoring in a heart valve annulus,
 said stent-based platform comprising an at least partially self-expanding stent and a cuff
 comprising an absorbent material disposed at least partially circumferentially around the outer and
 inner surface of said at least partially self-expanding stent, wherein said absorbent material
 expands by absorption of a fluid to substantially seal said at least partially self-expanding stent at
 an implantation site, and wherein said expansion of said absorbent material is delayed for a time
 sufficient to permit positioning of said at least partially self-expanding stent at said implantation
 site; and
 a valved-stent prosthetic device adapted to be percutaneously delivered to the heart valve annulus
 for mounting in said stent-based platform.
           [0008]       Also described, the stent-based platfonn is adapted for anchoring in a
 pulmonary valve annulus and the valved-stent prosthetic device comprising a pulmonary valved
 stent prosthetic device adapted for delivery to the pulmonary valve annulus.
           [0009]       Further described the stent-based platform is adapted the stent-based
platform is adapted for anchoring in a pulmonary valve annulus and the valved-stent prosthetic
device comprises a pulmonary valved-stent prosthetic device adapted for delivery to the
pulmonary valve annulus.
          100101       Additionally described the stent-based platform is adapted for anchoring in a
tricuspid valve annulus and the valved-stent prosthetic device comprises a tricuspid valved-stent
prosthetic device adapted for delivery to the tricuspid valve annulus.
          [0011]       The absorbent material may be implemented as a bi-layer system in which an
outer layer is a fluid impermeable material that prevents the absorbent material from expanding
while the at lest partially self-expanding stent is being placed, said outer layer adapted to elute off
to allow the underlying absorbent material to expand to permit positioning of said at least partially
self-expanding stent.
          10012]       The absorbent material may be a cross-linked hydrogel comprising
poly(acrylic acid) and a poly(ethylene glycol).
          [0013]       The fluid impermeable materials may comprise a fluid impermeable polymer
barrier deposited on the absorbent material.
                                                    3

  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0014] The foregoing and other aspects of the present inventions will become
 apparent flon the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the
 accompanying drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there is shown in
 the drawings embodiments that are presently preferred, it being understood, however, that
 the invention is not limited to the specific aspects disclosed. The drawings are not
 necessarily drawn to scale. In the drawings:
         [0015] FIG. I shows three different views of an exemplary prosthesis according to
the present disclosure.
         [00161 FIG. 2 depicts a simplified version of an exemplary prosthesis featuring
tipper and lower flanges that comprise projections.
        [00171 FIG. 3 illustrates steps from an exemplary procedure for transatrial delivery
of a prosthesis according to the present disclosure.
        [00181 FIG. 4 depicts steps from an exemplary procedure for venous percutaneous
delivery of a prosthesis according to the present disclosure.
                                               4

            [0019]  FIG. 5 provides views of an exemplary stent for use in a prosthesis according to
 the present invention.
           [00201   FIG. 6 provides an illustrative example of how to characterize wire weave
 density, as well as how wire weave density and wire thickness respectively affect various
 parameters of the inventive stent.
           [0021]   FIG. 7 depicts the components of an exemplary kit according to the present
 disclosure.
           [00221   FIGS. 8-9 illustrate an example of how retractable compression sleeves may be
used to compress a stent against the dock of a catheter during delivery to an implantation site,
and to permit the stent to expand at the implantation site and undock from the catheter.
          [0023]    FIG. 10 illustrates how the process described in FIG. 9 will result in the
implantation in situ of a valve prosthesis that comprises a wire framework.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
          [0024]    The present inventions may be understood more readily by reference to the
following detailed description taken in connection with the accompanying figures and examples,
which form a part of this disclosure. It is to be understood that these inventions are not limited to
the specific products, methods, conditions or parameters described and/or shown herein, and that
the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments by way of
example only and is not intended to be limiting of the claimed inventions.
          [0025]   In the present disclosure the singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include the
plural reference, and reference to a particular numerical value includes at least that particular
value, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Thus, for example, a reference to "a
material" is a reference to one or more of such materials and equivalents thereof known to those
skilled in the art, and so forth. When values are expressed as approximations, by use of the
antecedent "about," it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. As
used herein, "about X" (where X is a numerical value) preferably refers to ±10% of the recited
value, inclusive. For example, the phrase "about 8" preferably refers to a value of 7.2 to 8.8,
inclusive; as another example, the phrase " about 8%" preferably (but not always) refers to a
value of 7.2% to 8.8%, inclusive. Where present, all ranges arc inclusive and combinable, For
example, when a range of "1 to 5" is recited, the recited range should be construed as including
ranges "I to 4", "1 to 3", "1-2", "1-2 & 4-5'', "1 -3 & 5", "2-5", and the like. In addition, when a
list of alternatives is positively provided, such listing can be interpreted to mean that any of the
alternatives may be excluded, e.g., by a negative limitation in the claims. For example, when a
                                              -5 -

range of "I to 5" is recited, the recited range may be construed as including situations whereby
any of 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 are negatively excluded; thus, a recitation of "1 to 5" may be construed as
"I and 3-5, but not 2", or simply "wherein 2 is not included."
         100261    Unless otherwise specified, any component, element, attribute, or step that is
disclosed with respect to one aspect of the present invention (for example, the prostheses,
systems, kits, and methods, respectively) may apply to any other aspect of the present invention
(any other of the rostheses, systems, kits, and methods, respectively) that is disclosed herein
         [0027]    The disclosures of each patent, patent application, and publication cited or
described in this document are hereby incorporated herein by reference, in their entirety.
         [0028]    It has previously been demonstrated that the use of catheter-based percutaneous
valved stents is feasible for the replacement of both of human pulmonic and human aortic valves.
Replacement of the pulmonic valve was die first to be successfully performed using a
percutaneous approach, and is presently the furthest along in development. While there is a great
deal of interest in replacing the mitral valve percutaneously, the anatomy and function of the
mitral valve prevents direct application of the technology that is currently applicable to pulmonic
and aortic valve replacement. There are presently a significant number of patients that suffer
from mitral valve incompetence due to left ventricular dysfunction after a myocardial infarction.
However, many of these patients are deemed too fragile to undergo surgical mitral valve
replacement or repair. The development of a catheter-based technology for reliable replacement
of the mitral valve would allow such patients to be included among those subjects who are
eligible for ife-saving mitral valve replacement therapy. It has presently been discovered that
successful percutaneously delivered valve should possess four main design characteristics: it
must be foldable or collapsible for delivery; it must anchor to the valvular ring; it must seal the
implantation point to prevent leaks; and, the valve itself must function normally when in situ.
The presently disclosed valve replacements are foldable for catheter-based deployment to the site
of implantation, include highly effective anchoring mechanisms for secure and enduring
precision implantation, employ unique sealing mechanisms that prevents perivalvular leaks, and
incorporates an appropriate leaflet system for reliable functioning in situ.
General Embodiment I
         [0029]    The following disclosure pertains to a first general embodiment of the present
 disclosure, which pertains to inventive valve prostheses and methods for replacing a damaged or
 diseased valve.
         [0030]    In one aspect, valve prostheses are provided comprising a self-expanding stent
 comprising an outer surface, an interior surface, a middle region, an upper anchoring flange, and
                                              -6-

  a lower anchoring flange, wherein the stent has an unexpanded and an expanded state; a cuff
  comprising an absorbent material disposed at least partially circumferentially around the outer
  surface of tire stent, wherein the absorbent material expands by absorption of a fluid to
  substantially adhere the prosthesis at an implantation site, and wherein the anchoring is delayed
  for a time sufficient to permit positioning of the prosthesis at the implantation site; and a valve
  comprising at least two leaflets fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent. In preferred
 embodiments, the prosthesis is a mitral valve prosthesis.
           {00311    The stent may be self-expanding, or may be configured to be forcibly expanded,
 for example, by a balloon. In preferred embodiments, the stent is self-expanding. The self
 expanding stent preferably comprises a shape-memory or "superelastic" material exhibiting large
 elastic strains. An exemplary material is nitinol, a nickel-titanium alloy. Any other material
 possessing similar characteristics may also be used in the construction of the self-expanding
 stent, and more generally, and suitable, biocompatible material may be used to form the stent,
 whether it is self-expanding or not. Exemplary materials include stainless steel,
 cobalt/chromium alloy, cobalt/chromium/nickel alloy, nickel/chromium alloy, platinum,
 platinum/iridium alloy, among others. The stent may comprise one or more other materials that
 are themselves not self-expanding but that do not inhibit or otherwise interfere with the ability of
 the stent to self-expand. For example, any biocompatible material may be included to add any
 other desired structural feature to the stent. Exemplary biocompatible materials include stainless
 steel, tantalum, platinum alloys, niobium alloys, and cobalt alloys, among others. Additionally
or alternatively, one or more bioabsorbable materials may be used in forming the stent. Part or
 all of the stent may be coated with a composition comprising a drug, so that the stent is capable
of eluting drug in situ. The stent preferably comprises a framework that is formed from the
material that allows the stent to be self-expanding, in addition to any other compatible materials
as described above. The structural framework can be formed from wire using conventional
techniques, such as coiling, weaving, braiding, or knitting. The wire may be welded or otherwise
joined at some or all crossover points, thereby forming a structure that is not hinged. The
formation of stents is readily appreciated among those skilled in the art and the present
disclosure is intended to embrace any suitable technique, including any fimctionally acceptable
stent geometry,
          [0032]    The stent comprises a middle region having various dimensions, including an
unexpanded length, an unexpanded outer circumference, an expanded length, and an expanded
outer circumference, The unexpanded length is preferably substantially the same as or greater
than the expanded length, and the expanded outer circumference is greater than the unexpanded
                                               -7-

outer circumference. The unexpanded outer circumference may be any size that enables the
unexpanded stent to be translated through the interior of a catheter. For example, the
unexpanded outer circumference may be of a size that enables the unexpanded stent to be
translated along the interior of a catheter having a diameter of about I mrn to about 8 mm. The
expanded length preferably substantially corresponds to the length that is about the same as or
longer than that of the annulus between the left atrium and left ventricle of a human subject's
heart. Preferably, the expanded length of the stent is longer than that of the annulus between the
left atrium and left ventricle. Because the length of the mitral valve annulus may vary from
subject to subject, a particular subject may be matched with a stent having an expanded length
that is appropriate for the mitral valve annulus of that subject. In general, the expanded length
may be about 0.5 cm to about 5 cm, about I cm to about 4 cm, about 1,5 cm to about 3.5 cm, or
about 2 cm to about 3 cm. The expanded outer circumference may be substantially the same as
or less than the inner circumference of a subject's mitral valve annulus. In preferred
embodiments, the expanded outer circumference is less than the inner circumference of a
subject's mitral valve annulus, and is appropriately sized such that the stent having a cuff that is
disposed at least partially circumferentially around the outer surface of the stent can be
positioned within the mitral valve annulus. As discussed more fully herein, the cuff has an
unexpanded form and an expanded form, and the stent is preferably appropriately sized such that
the stent having a substantially unexpanded cuff disposed at least partially circumferentially
around the outer surface of the steint can be positioned within the mitral valve. In general, the
expanded outer circumference of the stent may be about 2 cm to about 5 cm, about 2.5 cm to
about 4 cm, or about 2.5 cm to about 3.5 cm.
         [0033]    The prostheses according to the present disclosure may be configured to be
delivered transatrially, transapically, or percutaneously. Thus, the dimensions of the prosthesis,
the type of material used for the stent, cuff, or other components, the presence or absence of a
drug coating on the stent, the type of flanges that are included, the weave pattern of the stent, the
length of delay of absorption of fluid, and other factors may all be manipulated in order to
configure the prosthesis for transatrial, transapical, or percutaneous delivery, as desired. Those
skilled in the art will readily appreciate the characteristics that are required for delivery of a
stented device by the transatrial, transapical, or percutaneous route, respectively, and may select
accordingly from the wide range of characteristics described herein.
         [0034]    In addition to the middle region the self-expanding stent comprises an upper and
 a lower flange. In the most simple embodiment, one or both of the flanges comprise the
 longitudinal ends or margins of the middle region. For example, one or both of the flanges may
                                               -8 -

be a "lip" of material that extends partly or fully around the circumference of the stent at a
 longitudinal end of the middle region. In other embodiments, one or both of the flanges may be
configured to provide an anchoring functionality that substantially affixes the stent at the
 location of the mitral annulus. In particular, one of the upper or lower flanges may be configured
to anchor to the ventricular side of the mitral annulus, and the other of the upper or lower flanges
may be configured to anchor the atrial side of the mitral annulus. The upper flange, lower
flange, or both may comprise a plurality of protruding stent elements. For example, if the stent is
constructed from wire, the flanges may comprise a plurality of individual wires or bundled sets
of wires. The plurality of wires may comprise a regularly or irregularly spaced array, and the
wires themselves may be present as single strands, or as grouped or bundled sets of two, three,
four, or more wire strands. Each flange may have a configuration that corresponds to the
unexpanded state of the stent, and a configuration that corresponds to the expanded state of the
stent. When one or both of the flanges comprise a plurality of individual stent elements, the
elements may be substantially straightened when the stent is in the unexpanded state and may be
substantially coiled when the stent is in the unexpanded state. In other embodiments, a flange
may comprise one or more elements that define flaps, lobes, or other projections that may be
oriented substantially parallel with the long axis of the stent when the stent is in an unexpanded
state and oriented at a substantially oblique angle (for example, about 300, about 450, about 60',
about 750, or about 90*) relative to the long axis of the stent when the stent is in an expanded
state. FIG. 2 provides a simplified view of an exemplary embodiment of this variety, having
flaps 7 that are oriented substantially parallel with the long axis Y when stent 4 is in an
unexpanded state (FIG. 2A) and that are oriented at a substantially oblique angle relative to the
"long" axis Y when stent 4 is an expanded state. Any flange design, whether consisting of a
unitary structure or numerous discrete elements, is contemplated for purposes of the present
disclosure.
         [0035]   The present mitral valve prostheses also comprise a cuff comprising an
absorbent material that is disposed at least partially circumferentially around the outer surface of
the stent. The term "cuff' is intended to embrace a continuous ring of absorbent material that
forms a complete circle around the outer surface of the stent; any other conformation that
involves a contiguous portion of absorbent material, such as a strip that forms a spiral around the
outer surface of the stent; one, two, three or more disparate patches or strips (or any other shape
or configuration) of absorbent material disposed on the outer surface of the stent; or, any
combination of one or more contiguous portions of material and disparate patches, strips, and the
                                              -.9-

 like. In a preferred embodiment, the cuff comprises a continuous ring of absorbent material that
 forms a complete circle around the outer surface of the stent.
         [0036]    The cuff comprises an absorbent material that expands by absorption of a fluid
 to substantially adhere the prosthesis at the implantation site. When the disclosed prostheses are
used to replace a damaged or nonfunctional mitral valve, the implantation site is the mitral valve
annulus. As used herein to "adhere" may mean to substantially affix or anchor the prosthesis at
the implantation site, to create a seal between the cuff and the mitral valve annulus that is
substantially impermeable to fluid, or both. It has been presently discovered that the cuff can
form a seal that reliably prevents perivalvular leakage between the atrium and ventricle, such that
when the prosthesis is in place, the only fluid that passes between the atrium and ventricle is that
which is allowed to pass by the activity of the replacement valve itself.
         [0037]    The adhering of the prosthesis is delayed for a time sufficient to permit
positioning of the prosthesis at the implantation site. For example, because the procedure for
positioning the prosthesis via a catheter at the implantation site may last 40 minutes, the
expansion by the cuff by absorption of fluid to a sufficient degree such as to adhere the
prosthesis to the implantation may be delayed until that time has elapsed. Thus, the cuff
comprises one or more materials, components, or both that creates a delay in the absorption of
fluid or that provides a sufficiently slow rate of absorption of the fluid, such that the cuff does
not expand to the degree required to adhere the prosthesis to the implantation site until the
desired period of delay has elapsed. The period of delay may be measured starting at the point in
time where the prosthesis is exposed to a fluid (e.g., blood). The delay period may be about 1
minute, about 2 minutes, about 5 minutes, about 7 minutes, about 10 minutes, about 15 minutes,
about 20 minutes, about 30 minutes, about 45 minutes, about 1 hour, about 75 minutes, about 90
minutes, or about 2 hours. The type of cuff that is selected for use with the prosthesis may
depend on the difficulty of the procedure to deliver the prosthesis to the implantation site.
         [0038]    The absorbent material of the cuff may itself absorb fluid at a sufficiently slow
rate to delay the adhering of the prosthesis at the implantation site, In other embodiments, the
absorbent material of the cuff may feature a variable rate of absorption, such that the rate of
absorption is low for an initial period of time but that increases over time or after a period of
time. For example, the absorbent material may have a fluid absorption rate of about 0 [L to
about 20 gL per minute for a first period of time following exposure of the prosthesis to the fluid,
and a fluid absorption rate from about 10 to about 200 pL per minute after the first period of
time. The period of time after which the rate of absorption increases may be about 10 minutes,
about 15 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 30 minutes, about 45 minutes, about 1 hour, about 90
                                             - 10 -

  minutes, about 2 hours, about 180 minutes, or about 2 hours. In other embodiments, the ability
 of the absorbent material of the cuff to absorb fluid is delayed. For example, the absorbent
 material of the cuff may be completely or partially covered with or contained within a material
 that affects the ability of the absorbent material to absorb fluid. The absorbent material may be
 completely or partially covered with or contained within a cover material, e.g., a film or fabric,
 that is permanently impermeable to fluid, but that is removable and is removed when the desired
 period of delay has elapsed; the removal of the cover material may be effected while the
 prosthesis is in situ at the implantation site, for example, by using a catheter-based removal tool
 to grasp and remove the cover material. Any material that is substantially impermeable to fluid
 (such as water, blood, and the like) and that is biocompatible may be used to form the cover
 material. Nontimiting examples include polyurethanes, polyethylenes, polydimethylsiloxane,
 silicones, rubbers, and polyvinyl chloride. In other embodiments, the absorbent material may be
 completely or partially covered with or contained within a cover material, e.g., a film or fabric,
 that is temporarily impermeable to fluid, but that becomes permeable to fluid after a desired
 period of delay. For example, the cover material may be degradable over time, or may comprise
 a material that degrades or is altered in response to a change in temperature, pH, or some other
environmental cue that is present at the implantation site. In other embodiments, the absorbent
material may be completely or partially covered with or contained within a cover material that is
permeable to fluid, but the transfer of fluid across such cover material and/or saturation of by the
cover material by fluid is sufficiently slow to provide a delay before the absorbent material
absorbs a sufficient amount of fluid to adhere to the implantation site, The period of delay that is
provided by a cover material may be, for example, about 5 minutes to about 3 hours, about 10
minutes to about 3 hours, about 20 minutes to about 2 hours, about 30 minutes to about 2 hours,
about 45 minute to about 90 minutes, or about one hour following exposure of the prosthesis to a
fluid. In still other embodiments, the ability of the absorbent material of the cuff to absorb is
delayed because the absorbent material itself or a material that is mixed in or otherwise
substantially interspersed or integrated with the absorbent material is altered in response to one
or more conditions (e.g., temperature, pH, and the like) that are present at the implantation site.
For example, the absorbent material may include or may be provided along with a polymer that
changes shape over time in response to exposure to the fluid or some other environmental cue
present at the implantation site, and such shape change permits the initiation or the acceleration
of the absorption of fluid by the absorbent material.
          [0039]   Exemplary substances that may be used to form the absorbent material include
any crosslinked hydrogen component. A crosslinked hydrogel component may be based on
                                              - 11 -

covalent crosslinks, physical/ionic crosslinking, or both. Nonlimiting examples include
poly(acrylic acid), poly(ethylene glycol), poly(ethylene oxide), poly(propylene oxide),
poly(vinyl alcohol), polyvinyl pyrrolidinone, poly(hydroxy ethyl methacrylate), poly(amino
acids), Dextran, polysaccharides, and proteins. Further examples of substances that may be used
to form the absorbent material include sodium polyacrylate, polyacrylamide copolymer, ethylene
maleic anhydride copolymer, carboxy-methyl-cellulose polyvinyl alcohol copolymers,
polyethylene oxide, and polyacrylonitrile,
         [0040]   Any "super absorbent" material, for example, a super absorbent polymer, also
may be used. As used herein, a "super absorbent" material is one that features an increase in
volume swelling ratio (Qv; swollen volume divided by "dry" volume or volume before any fluid
has been absorbed) from I to about 5-1000. Some examples of super absorbent materials are
listed above. Those of ordinary skill in the art can readily identify other suitable materials that
may be characterized as "super absorbent" and any such material may be used. Preferably, the
cuff is configured so that expansion occurs predominantly in a single direction. For example, the
expansion may predominantly in a direction that is substantially perpendicular relative to the
outer surface of the stent. If the cuff comprises a continuous ring of absorbent material that
forms a complete circle around the outer surface of the stent, the direction of expansion of the
absorbent material may be characterized as radial. Because the stent in its expanded state will be
sufficiently rigid to resist compression as a result of any radial expansion by the absorbent
material in the direction towards the surface of the stent, the radial expansion of the absorbent
material will be substantially unidirectional in the direction away from the surface of the stent,
i.e., towards the interior surface of the mitral valve annulus.   As described above, the expansion
of the absorbent material creates a seal between the cuff and the mitral valve annulus that
prevents perivalvular leakage.
         [0041]   A prosthesis according to the present disclosure may further comprise a
webbing that is disposed at the upper flange, lower flange, or both. The webbing may comprise
an absorbent material. The presence of the webbing may assist with the adhering (i.e., the
affixing, anchoring, and/or sealing) of the prosthesis at the implantation site. Accordingly, the
webbing may expand by absorption of a fluid, and the resulting adhering may be delayed for a
time sufficient to permit positioning of the prosthesis at the implantation site. When one or both
of the upper and lower flanges comprise discrete elements, such as individual stent elements as
described above, a portion of the webbing may be disposed between at least one pair of the
 individual stent elements of either or both of the flanges. Preferably, the webbing is disposed
between a plurality of pairs of individual stent elements of the upper anchoring flange and
                                              - 12 -

  between a plurality of pairs of individual stent elements of the lower anchoring flange. When
  one or both of the tipper and lower flanges comprise flaps, lobes, or other projections, part or all
 of each of the projections may be fitted with webbing. Each of the characteristics of the
  materials or components that are described above with respect to the cuff may be present in the
 webbing. Thus, the webbing the may comprise one or more materials, components, or both that
 creates a delay in the absorption of fluid or that provides a sufficiently slow rate of absorption of
 the fluid, such that the webbing does not expand to the degree required to adhere the prosthesis
 to the implantation site until the desired period of delay has elapsed.
           [0042]   The prostheses of the invention also comprise a valve comprising at least one
 leaflet that is fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent, The attachment of the leaflet or
 leaflets to the interior surface of the stent need not be direct; for example, a valve support ring
 may be fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent, and the valve(s) may be fixedly
 attached to the valve support ring. The valve may comprise one leaflet, two leaflet, or three
 leaflets. The leaflets are preferably derived from a biological source, such as mammalian
 pericardium. For example, the leaflets may be made from bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, or
 porcine pericardium. In other embodiments, the leaflets may be derived from animal valves,
 preferably mammalian valves. Nonlimiting examples include bovine jugular vein valves,
 porcine pulmonary valves, and porcine aortic valves. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
appreciate how to select the appropriate valve for the desired purpose.
          [0043]    FIG. I provides three views of an exemplary prosthesis 2. Prosthesis 2
comprises a stent 4 having an upper anchoring flange 6 and a lower anchoring flange 8. As
shown in FIGS. IA and IC, respectively, stent 4 has an expanded state and an unexpanded state.
FIG. IB provides a top perspective of exemplary prosthesis 2. Upper flange 6 and lower flange
8 comprise individual stent elements that are substantially coiled when stent 4 is in the expanded
state (FIGS. 1A, 13) and are substantially straightened when stent 4 is in the unexpanded state
(FIG. 1C). As stent 4 is compressed and elongated, the stent elements also elongate and
straighten to allow prosthesis 2 to fold and fit through a positioning catheter. Prosthesis 2 also
comprises a cuff IOa, 1Ob that is disposed circumferentially around the outer surface of stent 4.
As shown in FIG. IC, before prosthesis 2 is positioned at the site of implantation, cuff 10a will
not have expanded by absorption of fluid. However, as depicted in FIGS. lA and 13, once
prosthesis 2 has been exposed to fluid and the desired amount of time has elapsed for positioning
prosthesis 2 at the implantation site, cuff 10b will have absorbed fluid and expanded radially in
the direction substantially away from the surface of stent 4 to substantially adhere prosthesis 2 at
the implantation site. Prosthesis 2 also includes leaflets 12 that are fixedly attached to the
                                               - 13-

interior surface of stent 4. The prosthesis depicted in FIG. I includes three leaflets, which can
most clearly be ascertained in FIG. 1B
         [0044]    In another aspect, there are disclosed methods for replacing a damaged or
diseased mitral valve in a subject comprising: delivering to an implantation site of the subject a
mitral valve prosthesis comprising a self-expanding stent comprising an outer surface, an interior
surface, a middle region, an upper anchoring flange, and a lower anchoring flange, wherein the
stent has an unexpanded and an expanded state; a cuff comprising an absorbent material disposed
at least partially circumferentialty around the outer surface of the stent and a valve comprising at
least two leaflets fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent; and expanding the cuff by
absorption of a fluid to substantially adhere the prosthesis at an implantation site, wherein the
adhering is delayed for a time sufficient to permit positioning of the prosthesis at the
implantation site.
          [00451   Each of the attributes, components, materials, and the like that arc described
above with respect to the inventive mitral valve prostheses may be used in accordance with the
present methods.
          [00461   Delivery of the mitral valve prosthesis to an implantation site may be
accomplished transatrially, transapically, or percutaneously. Delivery of the prosthesis may be
followed by one or more positioning steps (i.e., positioning and, if desired, repositioning),
whereby the location of the prosthesis may be adjusted for optimal positioning in relation to the
 mitral valve annulus.
          [0047]   For transatrial delivery, an exemplary procedure may be performed as follows
 and as illustrated in FIG. 3. A small (2 -3 cm) thoracotory through the inter costal space is
made (FIG. 3A). The inter-atrial plane is developed. As shown in FIG. 3B, the right atrium 14
 is retracted, and a purse string suture is placed in the left atrium 16. Right pulmonary veins are
 shown as item 18. Then, a steerable introducer catheter 20 is placed into the left atrium through
 the purse string (FlG. 3C). The catheter is advanced through the mitral valve annulus (FIG. 3D).
 Its position may be guided and confirmed by echocardiography. The prosthesis 2 is introduced
 through the catheter 20. The ventricular flange expands first and anchors to the ventricular side
 of the annulus and the subvalvular apparatus (leaflets, chordea, left ventricular wall) (FIG. 3E).
 The remainder of the stent and atrial flange are delivered, also under echo cardiographic guidance
 (not shown). The atrial flange expands and anchors to the annulus and left atrium. The sealing
 cuff remains flaccid during the ensuing 60 minutes to allow documentation by echocardiography
 that the valve's position and function are adequate. After an hour in place the cuff lOb fully
 expands to seal the device against the native mitral valve annulus (FIG. 3F).
                                               - 14 -

            [00481   For transapical delivery, an exemplary procedure may be performed as follows,
  A small left thoracotomy is performed - similar in size to that which is used during the
  transatrial delivery procedure. A purse string suture is place in the left ventricular apex. A
 steerable catheter introducer is then placed into the left ventricle through the purse string. The
  introducer catheter 20 is guided through the mitral valve annulus into the left atrium under
 echocardiographic guidance. For this approach, the device may be designed so that the atrial
 flange is deployed and positioned first. The sealing technology by means of the cuff and
 optional webbing may be similar to that described above with respect to the exemplary transatrial
 delivery process.
           [0049]   Percutaneous delivery may be venous or arterial. When percutaneous delivery
 is the intended procedure, the prosthesis is configured accordingly, e.g., foldable enough to be
 placed via peripheral venous or arterial access,
           [0050]   Venous percutaneous delivery may be performed as follows and as illustrated in
 FIG. 4. Access to the fenoral vein is achieved by standard techniques that will be readily
 appreciated by those skilled in the art. A steerable catheter 20 is then introduced into the venous
system and guided to the right atrium using fluoroscopic guidance (FIG. 4A). Once in the right
 atrium, standard techniques are used to traverse the catheter across the intra-atrial septum to the
 left atrium (FIG. 4B), The prosthesis 2 is then deployed under echocardiographic guidance as
described in the transatrial approach.
          [0051]    For aterial percutaneous delivery, an exemplary procedure may be performed as
follows. Access to the femoral artery is achieved by standard techniques. A steerable catheter is
then introduced into the arterial system and guided to the aortic root and into the left ventricle
using fluoroscopic guidance. Once in the left ventricle the device is deployed as described above
in connection the transapical approach.
General Embodiment II
          [0052]   The following description pertains to a second general embodiment of the
present disclosure, which pertains to inventive valve prostheses; methods for replacing a
damaged or diseased valve; systems for delivering a valve prosthesis; kits; and, methods for
delivering a valve prosthesis.
          [00531   In one aspect, provided are valve prostheses comprising an at least partially self
expanding stent comprising a wire framework defining outer and interior surfaces, and upper and
lower anchoring flanges interposed by a middle region, the stent having an unexpanded and an
expanded state, and the lower anchoring flange having at least one geometric dimension that is
                                               - 15 -

greater than the corresponding dimension of the upper anchoring flange; and a valve comprising
at least one leaflet fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent.
         [0054]    The stent may be configured to be at least partially self-expanding. For
example, the stent may be capable of self-expanding to its state of maximal expansion, or, to at
least some degree, the stent may be configured such that it must be forcibly expanded, for
example, by a balloon. For example, the stent may be configured so that 100% of its requisite
expansion occurs without any contribution by a mechanism other than the stent itself, or may be
configured so that 99% or less, but more than 0%, of the requisite expansion occurs without any
contribution by a mechanism other than the stent itself. In certain embodiments, the stent is fully
self-expanding.
         [0055]    The at least partially self-expanding stent may comprise a shape-memory or
"superelastic" material exhibiting large elastic strains. An exemplary material is nitinol, a
nickel-titanium alloy. In one embodiment, the stent comprises a nitinol wire weave. Any other
material possessing similar characteristics may also be used in the construction of the self
expanding stent, and more generally, and suitable, biocompatible material may be used to form
the stent, whether it is self-expanding or not, Exemplary materials include stainless steel,
cobalt/chromium alloy, cobalt/chromium/nickel alloy, nickel/chromium alloy, platinum,
platinum/iridium alloy, among others. The stent may comprise one or more other materials that
are themselves not self-expanding but that do not inhibit or otherwise interfere with the ability of
the stent to self-expand. For example, any biocompatible material may be included to add any
other desired structural feature to the stent. Exemplary biocompatible materials include stainless
steel, tantalum, platinum alloys, niobium alloys, and cobalt alloys, among others. Additionally
or alternatively, one or more bioabsorbable materials may be used in forming the stent. Part or
all of the stent may be coated with a composition comprising a drug, so that the stent is capable
of eluting drug in situ.
         [0056]    The stent comprises a wire framework that is formed from the material that
allows the stent to be at least partially self-expanding, in addition to any other compatible
materials as described above. The framework can be formed from wire using conventional
techniques, such as coiling, weaving, braiding, or knitting. In a preferred embodiment, the stent
comprises a wire weave, In certain embodiments, the wire framework may be welded or
otherwise joined at some or all crossover points, thereby forming a structure that, at least in some
places, is not hinged. The formation of wire frameworks is readily appreciated among those
skilled in the art and the present disclosure is intended to embrace any suitable technique,
 including any functionally acceptable framework geometry.
                                               - 16-

           [00571    The present inventors have found that the amount of radial force that is exerted
  by a stent can be an important determinant both of how well the stent will be anchored to the site
  of implantation and of the quality of the seal that is formed between the stent and the site of
  implantation, e.g., between the stent and the inner walls of a valve annulus. Pursuant to the
  present invention, it has been discovered that at least three factors contribute to the outward
  radial force that the stent exerts. First, the thickness of the wire that is used to form the
  framework influences the degree of radial force that the stent exerts. In accordance with the
 present disclosure, the thickness of the wire that is used to forrn the framework may be about
 0.005 inches to about 0.030 inches. For example, the wire may have a thickness of about 0.010
 inches, about 0.015 inches, about 0.020 inches, about 0.025 inches, or about 0.030 inches. It has
 also been discovered that the density of the wire framework affects the radial force that is exerted
 by the stent. The parameters that can be used to describe the density of the wire framework are
 defined more fully infi-a. Third, the radial force that is exerted by the stent is influenced by the
 diameter of the stent in the expanded state relative to the diameter of the major dimension of the
 valve annulus into which the stent is to be implanted. Valve annual may be roughly circular, but
 in many instances are substantially elliptical or saddle-shaped, such that the annulus will have a
 major and a minor dimension (diameter). In the case of a circular annulus, the "major
 dimension" will simply be the diameter of the annulus. It has presently been discovered that the
stent exerts a beneficial amount of radial force when the diameter of the stent in its expanded
state is about 95% to about 125% of [he major dimension of the valve annulus. For example, an
expanded stent having a diameter that is about 95%, about 100%, about 105%, about 110%,
about 115%, about 120%, or about 125% of the major dimension of the valve annulus will be
conducive to the exertion of a beneficial amount of radial force. Stated, in absolute terms, this
can mean that an expanded stent may have a diameter of about 25 to about 50 mm.
          [0058]   The stent comprises a middle region having various dimensions, including an
unexpanded length, an unexpanded diameter, an expanded length, and an expanded diameter.
The unexpanded length is preferably substantially the same as or greater than the expanded
length, and the expanded diameter is greater than the unexpanded diameter. The unexpanded
diameter may be any size that enables the unexpanded stent to be translated through a subject's
vasculature during delivery. For example, the unexpanded diameter may be of a size that
enables the unexpanded stent to fit within the interior of a catheter (or a related component, such
as a compression sleeve, which is more fully described herein) having a diameter of about I mm
to about 13 mm, preferably about 1 mm to about 8 mm. The expanded length may substantially
correspond to the length that is about the same as or longer than that of the annulus between two
                                               - 17-

 chambers of a human subject's heart, or between one chamber and the associated artery, such as
 the left ventricle and the aortic artery. Preferably, the expanded length of the stent is longer than
 that of such an annulus. Because the length of a valve annulus, such as the mitral valve annulus,
 may vary from subject to subject, a particular subject may be matched with a stent having an
 expanded length that is appropriate for the valve annulus of that subject. In general, the
 expanded length may be about 0.5 cm to about 5 cm, about 1 cm to about 4 cm, about 1.5 cm to
 about 3.5 cm, or about 2 cm to about 3 cm, As described above, the expanded diameter may be
 about 95% to about 125% of the major dimension of the subject's valve annulus. Even in
embodiments wherein the present prosthesis further comprises a cuff comprising an absorbent
material that is disposed at least partially circumferentially around the outer surface of the stent,
which is discussed more fully herein, the expanded diameter preferably falls within the range
recited above relative to the major dimension of the subject's valve annulus.
          [00591   The prostheses according to the present disclosure may be configured to be
delivered transatrialty, transapically, or percutaneously. Thus, the dimensions of the prosthesis,
the type of material used for the stent, cuff, or other components, the presence or absence of a
drug coating on the stent, the type of flanges that are included, the framework pattern (e.g.,
weave) of the stent, the length of delay of absorption of fluid, and other factors may all be
manipulated in order to configure the prosthesis for transatrial, transapical, or percutaneous
delivery, as desired. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate the characteristics that are
required for delivery of a stented device by the transatrial, transapical, or percutaneous route,
respectively, and may select accordingly from the wide range of characteristics described herein.
          [0060]   In addition to the middle region the self-expanding stent comprises an upper
flange and a lower flange, In the most simple embodiment, one or both of the flanges comprise
the longitudinal ends or margins of the middle region. For example, one or both of the flanges
may be a "lip" of stent material that extends partly or fully around the circumference of the stent
at a longitudinal end of the middle region. In other embodiments, one or both of the flanges may
be configured to provide an anchoring functionality that substantially affixes the stent at the
location of the valve annulus. For example, the lower flange may be configured to anchor to the
ventricular side of a mitral annulus, and the upper flange may be configured to anchor to the
atrial side of the mitral annulus. The respective configurations of the upper and lower flange
may, but need not be, the same; thus, the lower flange may adopt a different configuration than
the upper flange. The upper flange, lower flange, or both may comprise a plurality of protruding
stent elements. Any flange design, whether consisting of a unitary structure or numerous
discrete elements, is contemplated for purposes of the present disclosure. For example, the
                                             - 18 -

 flanges may comprise a plurality of protruding stent elements that respectively comprise
 individual wires or bundled sets of wires. The plurality of wires may comprise a regularly or
 irregularly spaced array, and the wires themselves may be present as single strands, or as
 grouped or bundled sets of two, three, four, or more wire strands, in other embodiments, the
 flanges may comprise a plurality of wire loops. The wire loops may be integral with the wire
 framework of the stent. For example, the stent may comprise wire weave that defines (in
 addition to the other elements of the stent) flanges that comprise a plurality of wire loops. The
 wire loops may comprise a regularly or irregularly spaced array.
          [0061]    Each flange may have a configuration that corresponds to the unexpanded state
 of the stent, and a configuration that corresponds to the expanded state of the stent. For example,
 when one or both of the flanges comprise a plurality of individual stent wires, the elements may
 be substantially straightened when the stent is in the unexpanded state and may be substantially
 coiled when the stent is in the unexpanded state. In other instances, a flange may comprise one
 or more elements that define flaps, lobes, loops, or other projections that may be oriented
substantially parallel with the long axis of the stent when the stent is in an unexpanded state and
 are differently oriented when the stent is in an expanded state. Some embodiments are such that
the upper flange and lower flange each comprise a plurality of protruding stent elements that are
each substantially straightened when the stent is in the unexpanded state and are each
substantially bent back towards the middle region of the stent when the stent is in the expanded
state.
         [0062]    It has presently been discovered that a stent that comprises a lower anchoring
flange having at least one geometric dimension that is greater than the corresponding dimension
of the upper anchoring flange is capable of reliably adhering the prosthesis to the site of
implantation. Traditionally, replacement of damaged or diseased valves consisted of the removal
of the defunct valve tissue in order to clear a space for the prosthetic valve apparatus and avoid
unwanted interference with the functioning of the prosthesis. The present design does not
require the removal of defunct valve tissue, and in fact benefits from the presence of such tissue,
because it is capable of grasping the tissue that is present at the site of implantation (whether
such tissue comprises defunct valve material or otherwise) by virtue of the lower anchoring
flange, and is capable of similar grasping, as well as "capping', by virtue of the upper anchoring
flange. For example, when the site of implantation is the mitral valve annulus, the inventive
prosthesis securely adheres to the site of implantation because, inter alia, of the action of lower
anchoring flange to grasp the defunct valve tissue and annulus tissue on the ventricular side, and
                                             - 19-

of the action of the tipper anchoring flange to grasp such tissue and likewise provide a "cap" on
the atrial side of the annulus.
         [0063]    As used herein, the terms "lower" and "upper" are merely terms of convenience;
a prosthesis for implantation in a mitral valve annulus, for example, will be positioned in situ
such that the "tower" anchoring flange is oriented on the ventricular side of the annulus and
thereby substantially "downwards", and the convention therefore arose to use the term "lower" to
designate the ventricular-side flange, which possesses a geometric dimension that is greater than
the corresponding dimension on the upper flange. In general, because the use of the terms
"upper" and "lower" are merely conventions, there is no requirement for the "lower" anchoring
flange to be oriented substantially or even partially "downwards" when the prosthesis is used in
other contexts.
         [0064]   The geometric dimension that is greater in the lower anchoring flange as
compared with the upper anchoring flange may be any dimension that is shared by the respective
flanges. Thus, the geometric dimension may be length, width, height, or any other parameter. In
one example, the lower anchoring flange comprises a plurality of protruding stent elements of
equal length, wherein the protruding stent elements of the lower anchoring flange are longer than
a series of protruding stent elements that form the upper anchoring flange, When the upper and
lower anchoring flange respectively comprise a plurality of protruding stent elements, the lower
anchoring flange may be said to have a geometric dimension that is greater than the
corresponding dimension of the upper anchoring flange when more than 50%, more than 60%,
more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%, more than
95%, or 100% of the protruding stent elements of the lower flange have a greater dimension than
the protruding stent elements of the upper flange.
         [0065]    FIG. 5 provides views of an exemplary stent 21 of this variety, having an upper
flange 22 and a lower flange 24 of which each comprises a plurality of protruding stent elements
26. Protruding stent elements 26 are substantially straightened and oriented substantially parallel
with the long axis Y when stent 21 is in an unexpanded state (FIG. 5A) and that are substantially
bent back towards the middle region 28 when stent 21 is in the expanded state (FIG. 5B). The
stent 21 of FIG. 5B is vertically inverted relative to that of FIG. 5A, i.e., the upper flange 22 in
FIG. 5B appears at the bottom of the drawing of stent 21, rather than at the top portion (as in
FIG. SA). The protruding stent elements 26 of the lower flange 24 are longer than the protruding
stent elements 26 of the upper flange 22. When the stent 21 is in an expanded state, the
protruding stent elements 26 exert a force in the direction of the stent body, such that any
material that is interposed between a protruding element 26 and the outer surface of the middle
                                             - 20 -

 region of the stent 28 will be trapped between the two elements, Accordingly, when a prosthesis
 comprising a stent such as that described herein is delivered to an implantation site and shifts
 from its unexpanded state to its expanded state, loose tissue at the implantation site, such as
 defunct valve tissue, will be ensnared between the respective flanges and the middle region of
 the stent. This action significantly contributes to the anchoring of the prosthesis to the site of
 implantation. Example 2, below, discloses the measurement of the force that was required to
 extract an exemplary valve prosthesis according to the present disclosure from a site at which the
 prosethesis had been implanted.
          [0066]   FIG. 5B denotes various dimensions of exemplary stent 21 in its expanded state.
 Line a designates the diameter of stent 21; line b indicates the length of the individual protruding
 stent elements 26 of the lower flange 24; line c designates the height of stent 2], including the
 contribution of the upper and lower flange elements 22, 24; line d refers to the height of middle
region 28; line c) points to the diameter of the lower flange elements 24 that are bent back
towards middle region 28; and, line f) designates the diameter of the upper flange elements 22
that are bent back towards middle region 28.
         [0067]   The diameter of the stent in its expanded state may be, for example, about 25 to
about 55 mm. The length of an individual protrUding stent element of a lower flange may be, for
example, about 5 to about 45 mm. The height of the stent in its expanded state (i.e., the
dimension running parallel to the stent lumen - designated by Line c in FIG. 5B), including the
contribution of the upper and lower flange elements, may be, for example, from about 15 to
about 55 mm. The height of the middle region alone when the stent is in its expanded state may
be, for example, about 15 to 45 mm. The diameter of the lower flange elements that are bent
back towards the middle region (as designated by line e in FIG. 5B) may be, for example, about
I to about 8 mm., The diameter of the tipper flange elements that are bent back towards the
middle region of the stent (as designated by line f in FIG. 5B) may be, for example, about 3 to
about 12 mm.
         [0068]   With respect to the compressed stent shown in FIG. SA, the total length of the
stent may be from about 4 to about 15 cm, and the width of the compressed stent at the middle
region 28 may be about 5 to about 15 mm, preferably about 6 to about 12 mm.
         [0069]   As indicated above, the amount of outward radial force that is exerted by the
stent is influenced by, inter alia,the density of the wire framework. In general, a higher density
results in the exertion of a greater outward radial force. FIG, 6 provides an illustrative example
of how to characterize wire weave density, as well as how wire weave density and wire thickness
                                             -21 -

respectively affect various parameters of the inventive stent 21. The process of constructing a
 wire weave may described in terms of "steps" and "step-overs".
         [00701   FIG. 6A shows one embodiment of an inventive stent 21 comprising wire weave
 that includes an upper flange 22 comprising thirty-one individual protruding stent elements and a
lower flange 24 comprising thirty-one individual protruding stent elements. With respect to the
embodiment shown in FIG. 6A, each individual protruding stent element 26 constitutes a "step"
in the construction process, and each "step" requires 5 "step-overs" to form the body of the stent
21.
         [0071]   FIG. 6B shows a further embodiment of an inventive stent 21 comprising wire
weave that includes an upper flange 22 comprising twenty-five individual protruding stent
elements and a lower flange 24 comprising twenty-five individual protruding stent elements. For
the embodiment of FIG. 6B, each individual protruding stent element 26 constitutes a "step" in
the construction process, and each "step" requires 3 "step-overs" to form the body of the stent
21.
         [00721   The number of "step-overs" that may be used to form a stent comprising wire
weave according to the present invention can be 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10.
         [0073]   FIGS. 6A and 6B also illustrate how the thickness of the wire that is used to
form a stent 21 comprising wire weave can influence certain characteristics of the stent. The
embodiment of FIG. 6A involves the use of wire having a thickness of 0.025 inches, whereas the
embodiment of FIG. 6B involves the use of wire having a thickness of 0.012 inches. The
terminal bend of each individual protruding stent element 26 is wider in the case of the
embodiment of FlG. 6A as compared with the corresponding elements of FIG. 6B, because
thicker wire is used in the case of the former than in the latter. As indicated previously, the
thickness of the wire that is used to form the framework of an inventive stent may be about 0.005
inches to about 0.030 inches.
         [00741   The present valve prostheses may also comprise a cuff comprising an absorbent
material that is disposed at least partially circumferentially around the outer surface of the stent.
The term "cuff' is intended to embrace a continuous ring of absorbent material that forms a
complete circle around the outer surface of the stent; any other conformation that involves a
contiguous portion of absorbent material, such as a strip that forms a spiral around the outer
surface of the stent; one, two, three or more disparate patches or strips (or any other shape or
configuration) of absorbent material disposed on the outer surface of the stent; or, any
combination of one or more contiguous portions of material and disparate patches, strips, and the
                                              - 22 -

  like. In a preferred embodiment, the cuff comprises a continuous ring of absorbent material that
  forms a complete circle around the outer surface of the stent.
           [00751    When present, the cuff comprises an absorbent material that expands by
 absorption of a fluid to substantially adhere the prosthesis at the implantation site. When the
 disclosed prostheses are used to replace a damaged or nonfunctional mitral valve, the
 implantation site is the mitral valve annulus. As used herein to "adhere" may mean to
 substantially affix or anchor the prosthesis at the implantation site, to create a seal between the
 cuff and the mitral valve annulus that is substantially impermeable to fluid, or both. It has been
 presently discovered that the cuff can form a seal that reliably prevents perivalvular leakage
 between the atrium and ventricle, such that when the prosthesis is in place, the only fluid that
 passes between the atrium and ventricle is that which is allowed to pass by the activity of the
 replacement valve itself.
          [0076]    In embodiments that include a cuff, the adhering of the prosthesis is delayed for
 a time sufficient to permit positioning of the prosthesis at the implantation site. For example,
 because the procedure for positioning the prosthesis via a catheter at the implantation site may
 last 40 minutes, the expansion by the cuff by absorption of fluid to a sufficient degree such as to
 adhere the prosthesis to the implantation may be delayed until that time has elapsed. Thus, the
cuff comprises one or more materials, components, or both that creates a delay in the absorption
of fluid or that provides a sufficiently slow rate of absorption of the fluid, such that the cuff does
not expand to the degree required to adhere the prosthesis to the implantation site until the
desired period of delay has elapsed. The period of delay may be measured starting at the point in
time where the prosthesis is exposed to a fluid (e.g., blood). The delay period may be about 1
minute, about 2 minutes, about 5 minutes, about 7 minutes, about 10 minutes, about 15 minutes,
about 20 minutes, about 30 minutes, about 45 minutes, about I hour, about 75 minutes, about 90
minutes, or about 2 hours. The type of cuff that is selected for use with the prosthesis may
depend on the difficulty of the procedure to deliver the prosthesis to the implantation site.
         [0077]    The absorbent material of the cuff may itself absorb fluid at a sufficiently slow
rate to delay the adhering of the prosthesis at the implantation site. In other embodiments, the
absorbent material of the cuff may feature a variable rate of absorption, such that the rate of
absorption is low for an initial period of time but that increases over time or after a period of
time. For example, the absorbent material may have a fluid absorption rate of about 0 iL to
about 20 pLL per minute for a first period of time following exposure of the prosthesis to the fluid,
and a fluid absorption rate from about 10 to about 200 pL per minute after the first period of
time. The period of time after which the rate of absorption increases may be about 10 minutes,
                                             - 23 -

about 15 minutes, about 20 minutes, about 30 minutes, about 45 minutes, about 1 hour, about 90
minutes, about 2 hours, about 180 minutes, or about 2 hours. In other embodiments, the ability
of the absorbent material of the cuff to absorb fluid is delayed. For example, the absorbent
material of the cuff may be completely or partially covered with or contained within a material
that affects the ability of the absorbent material to absorb fluid. The absorbent material may be
completely or partially covered with or contained within a cover material, e.g., a film or fabric,
that is permanently impermeable to fluid, but that is removable and is removed when the desired
period of delay has elapsed; the removal of the cover material may be effected while the
prosthesis is in situ at the implantation site, for example, by using a catheter-based removal tool
to grasp and remove the cover material. Any material that is substantially impermeable to fluid
(such as water, blood, and the like) and that is biocompatible may be used to form the cover
materiaL Nonlimiting examples include polyurethanes, polyethylenes, polydimethylsiloxane,
silicones, rubbers, and polyvinyl chloride. In other embodiments, the absorbent material may be
completely or partially covered with or contained within a cover material, e.g., a film or fabric,
that is temporarily impermeable to fluid, but that becomes permeable to fluid after a desired
period of delay. For example, the cover material may be degradable over time, or may comprise
a material that degrades or is altered in response to a change in temperature, pH, or some other
environmental cue that is present at the implantation site. In other embodiments, the absorbent
material may be completely or partially covered with or contained within a cover material that is
permeable to fluid, but the transfer of fluid across such cover material and/or saturation of by the
cover material by fluid is sufficiently slow to provide a delay before the absorbent material
absorbs a sufficient amount of fluid to adhere to the implantation site, The period of delay that is
provided by a cover material may be, for example, about 5 minutes to about 3 hours, about 10
minutes to about 3 hours, about 20 minutes to about 2 hours, about 30 minutes to about 2 hours,
about 45 minute to about 90 minutes, or about one hour following exposure of the prosthesis to a
fluid. In still other embodiments, the ability of the absorbent material of the cuff to absorb is
delayed because the absorbent material itself or a material that is mixed in or otherwise
substantially interspersed or integrated with the absorbent material is altered in response to one
or more conditions (e.g., temperature, pH, and the like) that are present at the implantation site.
For example, the absorbent material may include or may be provided along with a polymer that
changes shape over time in response to exposure to the fluid or some other environmental cue
present at the implantation site, and such shape change permits the initiation or the acceleration
of the absorption of fluid by the absorbent material.
                                              - 24 -

           [0078]    Exemplary substances that may be used to form the absorbent material include
  any crosslinked hydrogel component. A crosslinked hydrogel component may be based on
  covalent crosslinks, physical/ionic crosslinking, or both. Nonlimiting examples include
  poly(acrylic acid), poly(e(hylene glycol), poly(ethylene oxide), poly(propylene oxide),
 poly(vinyl alcohol), polyvinyl pyrrolidinone, poly(hydroxy ethyl methacrylate), poly(amino
 acids), Dextran, polysaccharides, and proteins. Further examples of substances that may be used
 to form the absorbent material include sodium polyacrylate, polyacrylamide copolymer, ethylene
 maleic anhydride copolymer, carboxy-methyl-cellulose polyvinyl alcohol copolymers,
 polyethylene oxide, and polyacrylonitrile.
          [00791     Any "super absorbent" material, for example, a super absorbent polymer, also
 may be used in the cuff, when present. As used herein, a "super absorbent" material is one that
 features an increase in volume swelling ratio (Qv; swollen volume divided by "dry" volume or
 volume before any fluid has been absorbed) from I to about 5-1000. Some examples of super
 absorbent materials are listed above. Those of ordinary skill in the art can readily identify other
 suitable materials that may be characterized as "super absorbent" and any such material may be
 used. Preferably, the cuff is configured so that expansion occurs predominantly in a single
 direction. For example, the expansion may predominantly in a direction that is substantially
 perpendicular relative to the outer surface of the stent. If the cuff comprises a continuous ring of
 absorbent material that forms a complete circle around the outer surface of the stent, the direction
of expansion of the absorbent material may be characterized as radial. Because the stent in its
expanded state will be sufficiently rigid to resist compression as a result of any radial expansion
by the absorbent material in the direction towards the surface of the stent, the radial expansion of
the absorbent material will be substantially unidirectional in the direction away from the surface
of the stent, i.e., towards the interior surface of the mitral valve annulus. As described above,
the expansion of the absorbent material can enhance the seal between the cuff and the valve
annulus that prevents perivalvular leakage.
         [00801     A prosthesis according to the present disclosure may further comprise a
webbing that is disposed at the upper flange, lower flange, or both. The webbing may comprise
an absorbent material. The presence of the webbing may assist with the adhering (i.e., the
affixing, anchoring, and/or sealing) of the prosthesis at the implantation site. Accordingly, the
webbing may expand by absorption of a fluid, and the resulting adhering may be delayed for a
time sufficient to permit positioning of the prosthesis at the implantation site, When one or both
of the upper and lower flanges comprise discrete elements, such as protruding stent elements as
described above, a portion of the webbing may be disposed between at least one pair of the
                                              - 25 -

protruding stent elements of either or both of the flanges. Preferably, the webbing is disposed
between a plurality of pairs of protruding stent elements of the upper anchoring flange and
between a plurality of pairs of protruding stent elements of the lower anchoring flange. When
one or both of the upper and lower flanges comprise flaps, lobes, loops, or other projections, part
or all of each of the projections may be fitted with webbing. Each of the characteristics of the
materials or components that are described above with respect to the cuff may be present in the
webbing. Thus, the webbing the may comprise one or more materials, components, or both that
creates a delay in the absorption of fluid or that provides a sufficiently slow rate of absorption of
the fluid, such that the webbing does not expand to the degree required to adhere the prosthesis
to the implantation site until the desired period of delay has elapsed.
         [00811    The prostheses of the invention also comprise a valve comprising at least one
leaflet that is fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent. The attachment of the leaflet or
leaflets to the interior surface of the stent need not be direct; for example, a valve support ring
may be fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent, and the valve(s) may be fixedly
attached to the valve support ring. The valve may comprise one leaflet, two leaflet, or three
leaflets. The leaflets are preferably derived from a biological source, such as mammalian
pericardium. For example, the leaflets may be made from bovine, equine, ovine, caprine, or
porcine pericardium. In other embodiments, the leaflets may be derived from animal valves,
preferably mammalian valves. Nonlimiting examples include bovine jugular vein valves,
porcine pulmonary valves, and porcine aortic valves. Those of ordinary skill in the art will
 appreciate how to select the appropriate valve for the desired purpose. For example, it will be
 recognized that the suitability of a particular type of valve and number of leaflets may be
 affected by the intended use of the valve prosthesis. In one instance, the intended use of the
 valve prosthesis may be the replacement of a damaged or diseased mitral valve, in which case it
 would be appreciated that a three-leaflet valve should be selected. The instant prostheses may be
 configured for replacing any cardiac valve, such as the pulmonary valve, the tricuspid valve, the
 aortic valve, or the mitral valve.
         [0082]     The present disclosure also includes methods for replacing a damaged or
 diseased valve in a subject comprising: delivering to an implantation site of the subject a valve
 prosthesis comprising an at least partially self-expanding stent comprising a wire framework
 definingouter and interior surfaces, and upper and lower anchoring flanges interposed by a
 middle region, the stent having an unexpanded and an expanded state, and the lower anchoring
 flange having at least one geometric dimension that is greater than the corresponding dimension
 of the upper anchoring flange; and a valve comprising at least one leaflet fixedly attached to the
                                               - 26 -

 interior surface of the stent; and expanding the stent to substantially adhere the prosthesis at the
 implantation site.
          [0083]    Each of the attributes, components, materials, and the like that are described
 above with respect to the inventive valve prostheses may be used in accordance with the present
 methods.
          [0084]    Delivery of the valve prosthesis to an implantation site may be accomplished
 transatrially, transapically, or percutaneously. Delivery of the prosthesis may be followed by one
 or more positioning steps (i.e., positioning and, if desired, repositioning), whereby the location of
 the prosthesis may be adjusted for optimal positioning in relation to the valve annulus.
          [00851    For transatrial delivery, an exemplary procedure may be performed as follows.
 A small (2-3 cm) thoracotomy through the inter costal space is made. The inter-atrial plane is
 developed. The right atrium is retracted, and a purse string suture is placed in the left atrium.
Then, a steerable introduced catheter is placed into the left atrium through the purse string. The
catheter is advanced through the mitral valve annulus. Its position may be guided and confirmed
by echocardiography. The prosthesis is introduced through the catheter. The lower (ventricular)
flange expands first and anchors to the ventricular side of the annulus and the subvalvular
apparatus (leaflets, chordea, left ventricular wall). The remainder of the stent and upper (atrial)
flange are delivered, also under echocardiographic guidance. The atrial flange expands and
anchors to the annulus and left atrium. In embodiments of the prosthesis that include a cuff, the
sealing cuff remains flaccid during the ensuing 60 minutes to allow documentation by
echocardiography that the valve's position and function are adequate. After an hour in place the
cuff fully expands to seal the device against the native mitral valve annulus.
         [0086     For transapical delivery, an exemplary procedure may be performed as follows.
A small left thoracotomy is performed - similar in size to that which is used during the
transatrial delivery procedure. A purse string suture is place in the left ventricular apex. A
steerable catheter introducer is then placed into the left ventricle through the purse string. The
introducer catheter is guided through the mitral valve anmulus into the left atrium tinder
echocardiographic guidance. For this approach, the device may be designed so that the atrial
flange is deployed and positioned first. The optional cuff and/or webbing may be similar to that
described above with respect to the exemplary transatrial delivery process.
         [0087]    Percutaneous delivery may be venous or arterial. When percutaneous delivery
is the intended procedure, the prosthesis is configured accordingly, e.g., foldable enough to be
placed via peripheral venous or arterial access.
                                               - 27 -

         [0088]     Venous percutaneous delivery may be performed as follows. Access to the
femoral vein is achieved by standard techniques that will be readily appreciated by those skilled
in the art. A steerable catheter is then introduced into the venous system and guided to the right
atrium using fluoroscopic guidance. Once in the right atrium, standard techniques are used to
traverse the catheter across the intra-atrial septum to the left atrium. The prosthesis is then
deployed under echocardiographic guidance as described in the transatrial approach.
         [0089]     For aterial percutaneous delivery, an exemplary procedure may be performed as
follows. Access to the femoral artery is achieved by standard techniques. A steerable catheter is
then introduced into the arterial system and guided to the aortic root and into the left ventricle
using fluoroscopic guidance. Once in the left ventricle the device is deployed as described above
in connection the transapical approach.
         [0090]     In another aspect, provided are systems for delivering a valve prosthesis
comprising an at least partially self-expanding stent to an implantation site comprising: a catheter
comprising a distal end and a proximal end, a guidewire lumen to permit the catheter to be
translated along a guidewire, a steering lumen for accomnodating a tension cable for steering the
catheter, and a dock at the distal end onto which the stent may be loaded. The present systems
also comprise a retractable compression sleeve for compressing at least a portion of the stent
.while the stent is loaded onto the dock; a leading tip positioned distal to the dock for leading the
catheter during delivery; and, a steering mechanism operably associated with the tension cable
for deflecting the leading tip in at least one directional plane.
         [0091]     Unlike existing delivery systems, the disclosed systems are capable of housing,
transporting, and delivering stents of valve prostheses according to the present disclosure, as well
 as stents of other configurations, including conventional stented devices. As will be discussed
 more fully herein, the present systems include a number of features that address certain
 challenges that are associated with the manipulation and implantation of at least partially self
 expanding stents, including those having the characteristics of the stents that are used with the
 presently disclosed prostheses.
         [0092]     The catheter of the present system includes a distal end, which is the end of the
 catheter that is first introduced into the physiological point of entry during the stent implantation
 procedure. The proximal end of the catheter (defined herein as the end of the catheter that is
 closest to the operator of the system during use) remains outside of the subject. The instant
 catheters may have a length of about 20 cm to about 200 cm from the distal end to the proximal
 end. The outer diameter of the catheter may be about 0.5 cm to about 1.5 cm.
                                              -28-

            [0093]   The catheter may be constructed from any suitable material, wherein suitability
   is determined by such considerations as biological compatibility, durability, the appropriate
   balance between rigidity and flexibility, and other readily appreciable factors based on the
   intended use of the catheter, For example, polyimide, polyethylene, polypropylene, Kalrez@,
   Simriz®, Viton®, Chemraz@, silicone, neoprene, nitrile, metal or metal alloys (such as Ti-Nb
  Zr; see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 5,685,306) or any other combination thereof may be used. The
  materials used for the construction of the catheter, as well as the methods for the construction
  thereof, are readily appreciated by those skilled in the art, and all appropriate materials and
  means of construction are contemplated herein.
           [00941    The catheter includes at least two lumens, the first being a guidewire lumen to
  permit the catheter to be translated along a guidewire, the second being a steering lumen for
  accommodating a tension cable for steering the catheter. The guidewire lumen is appropriately
  sized, shaped, and located within the catheter to accommodate a guidewire, such that the catheter
 may be translated over a guidewire that has been placed along the appropriate physiological
 pathway to a site of interest within a subject. The steering lumen is appropriately sized, shaped,
 and located within the catheter to accomnniodate a tension cable. The manipulation of a tension
 cable that is located within a lumen of the present catheters causes the deflection of the catheter,
 which in turn allows the catheter to be moved from a first location to a second location in situ.
 The selection and use of guidewires and steering tension cables are well known among those
 skilled in the art. There are no limitations on the relative arrangement of the lumens within the
 catheter. However, it is traditional for a guidewire lumen to be located towards the center of a
 catheter. In one embodiment, the guidewire lumen and the steering lumen are provided in a side
by-side arrangement within the catheter. In other instances, the guidewire lumen may be located
substantially in the center of the catheter, and the steering lumen is located between the
guidewire lumen and the outer surface of the catheter. It may be desirable to include more than
one steering lumen, wherein each steering lumen may accommodate a separate tension cable, in
order to enhance the steerability of the catheter. For example, an exemplary catheter may
include a single guidewire lumen and two, threc, or four separate steering lumens.
          [00951    The catheters of the present systems further comprise a dock at the distal end of
the catheter onto which a stent may be loaded. The dock is preferably integral with the rest of
the catheter, and may simply comprise a distal portion of the catheter having a smaller diameter
than the remainder of the catheter, or at least of the portion of the catheter that is located
immediately adjacent to the dock. For example, whereas the outer diameter of the catheter
(excluding the dock) may be about 0.25 cm to about 1.5 cm, the outer diameter of the dock may
                                              - 29 -

be from about 25% to about 75% of the diameter of the remainder of the catheter. Stated in
absolute terms, the outer diameter of the dock may be about 0.10 cm to about 0.80 cm. The
length of the dock is preferably at Least as long as a stent in its fully compressed state (of which
exemplary lengths are provided above in connection with the presently disclosed prostheses),
and may be somewhat longer than a compressed stent. Stated in absolute terms, the length of the
dock may be from about 4 cm to about 15 cm.
         [0096]    The dock may optionally comprise an inflatable balloon for expanding or
assisting with the expansion of a stent that is loaded onto the dock. The use of inflatable
balloons for the expansion of stents is well known among skilled artisans. Because such
balloons are typically actuated at a desired time via the selective induction of fluid (liquid or gas)
pressure, when the dock comprises an inflatable balloon, the catheter may further comprise a
balloon lumen for supplying the fluid (for example, saline, water, or CO 2 gas) that is used to
inflate the balloon. When inflated, the balloon may adopt any configuration that is suitable for
assisting with the expansion of the stent; for example, the inflated balloon may be an elongated
torus or a series of two or more tori that are distributed along the length of the dock.
         [0097]   The present systems further comprise at least one retractable compression sleeve
for compressing at least a portion of the stent while the stent is loaded onto the dock. The
compression sleeve is preferably in coaxial arrangement with the catheter, for example,
functioning like a cannula or outer covering that translates over the catheter in a direction that is
towards or away from the catheter's distal end. A stent may be loaded onto the dock in a
compressed state, and the compression sleeve may be translated over the dock so that it passes
over and encircles the compressed stent; in this way, the compression sleeve ensures that the
stent remains compressed while loaded onto the dock. Specialized techniques may be required
to load the stent onto the dock in a compressed state. With the compressed stent loaded onto the
dock and at least one compression sleeve in coaxial arrangement with the dock and ensuring that
the stent remains compressed, the distal end of the catheter may be delivered to the site of
implantation, where the compression sleeve is eventually withdrawn and the stent thereby
permitted to expand at the implantation site.
         [0098]   A compression sleeve may be made from any material that is biocompatible and
is capable of functioning in the described manner. For example, a compression sleeve may be
constructed from a rigid material so that it is not damaged or distorted by the outward radial
force that is exerted by the compressed stent. The interior and/or exterior surfaces of the
compression sleeve are preferably configured to result in a low coefficient of friction against any
other component or physiological feature against which the sleeve may slide during use; this
                                             - 30 -

  feature may be inherent in the material from which the sleeve is constructed, or may be imparted
  to the sleeve material by a low-friction coating. One exemplary material for use in constructing
  the compression sleeve is polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE - sometimes produced under the trade
  name Teflon@). Any other suitable materials may be used, optionally coated on one or both of
  the inside and outside surfaces with PTFE or another material that is suitable for reducing
  friction.
           {00991   A single compression sleeve may be used to compress the entire stent. In other
 instances, the system may comprise two or more compression sleeves; a second retractable
 compression sleeve, or other further compression sleeves, may be present for compressing a
 further portion of the stent when the stent is loaded onto the dock. For example, a first
 compression sleeve may be present and used to keep the middle region of the stent in the
 compressed state, and a second compression sleeve may be used to keep the upper and lower
 flanges of the stent in the compressed state, In such embodiments, when the stent is loaded onto
 the dock, both the first and second compression sleeves are positioned in coaxial arrangement
 with the dock, with the first compression sleeve being positioned directly over the stent, and the
 second compression sleeve being positioned over the first compression sleeve and the stent;
 withdrawal of second compression sleeve (e.g., by translation over the catheter in the direction
 away from the dock) results in the expansion of the flanges, and subsequent withdrawal of the
 first compression sleeve results in the expansion of the remainder of the stent. Because of the
 nature of the process of withdrawing the second compression sleeve, either the upper or lower
 flange will expand prior to the expansion of the other of the upper and lower flanges. The
preceding process is described more fully below in connection with FIGS. 7-9. Expansion of the
flanges by removal of the second compression sleeve prior to the expansion of the middle region
by removal of the first compression sleeve results in the deployment of the flanges at the
implantation site, which allows the stent to at least partially adhere to the implantation site before
the middle region of the stent (containing the valve) is deployed.
          [01001    The present systems further comprise a leading tip that is positioned distal to the
dock portion of the catheter and that is for leading the catheter during the delivery process. The
leading tip may be substantially conical, may be rounded at its distal end, or may have any other
configuration that enhances the ease with which the tip and thereby the trailing catheter are
directed through a subject's vasculature. Materials that may be used to form the leading tip may
include any rigid, biocompatible, and preferably low-friction material. Examples include nylon,
silastic, plastic, nitinol, stainless steel, cobalt/chromium alloy, cobalt/chromium/nickel alloy,
nickel/chromium alloy, platinum, and platinum/iridium alloy. The leading tip may be securely
                                                -31 -

 yet removably attachable to the distal end of the dock, so that the stent can be loaded onto the
 dock prior to the attachment of the leading tip.
         [0101]    The systems according to the present disclosure also comprise a steering
 mechanism that is operably associated with the tension cable or cables and that is for deflecting
 the leading tip in at least one directional plane. The association between the steering mechanism
 and the tension cable or cables is described as operable because the steering mechanism makes
use of its connection to the tension cable to deflect the leading tip. The use of tension cables for
the deflection of a tension cable housing is readily understood among those skilled in the art.
The steering mechanism may be any device that allows a user to manipulate the tension cable(s)
and thereby the catheter in the intended manner - for example, an obturator knob, lever, dial, or
any appropriate mechanism may be used. The deflection of the leading tip by use of the steering
mechanism permits both the guidance of the catheter through a subject's vasculature (for
example, to effect the downturn into the subject's ventricle) and the precision placement of the
dock and stent at or near the site of implantation. The steering mechanism is typically used in
conjunction with an appropriate imaging technology, such as fluoroscopy or echocardiography.
         [0102]    In yet another aspect, there are disclosed kits comprising a system comprising
an at least partially self-expanding stent to an implantation site comprising: a catheter comprising
a distal end and a proximal end; a guidewire lumen to permit the catheter to be translated along a
guidewire; a steering lumen for accommodating a tension cable for steering the catheter; a dock
at the distal end onto which the stent may be loaded; a retractable compression sleeve for
compressing at least a portion of the stent while the stent is loaded onto the dock; a leading tip
positioned distal to the dock for leading the catheter during delivery; and, a steering mechanism
operably associated with the tension cable for deflecting the leading tip in at least one directional
plane; and, at least one valve prosthesis comprising an at least partially self-expanding stent
comprising a wire framework defining outer and interior surfaces, and upper and lower
anchoring flanges interposed by a middle region, the stent having an unexpanded and an
expanded state, and the lower anchoring flange having at least one geometric dimension that is
greater than the corresponding dimension of the upper anchoring flange; and a valve comprising
at least one leaflet fixedly attached to the interior surface of the stent.
         [0103]    Each of the attributes, components, materials, and the like that are described
above with respect to the inventive valve prostheses and systems may be used in accordance with
the prostheses and systems, respectively, that are included in the present kits,
         [0104]    The kits may further comprise one or more of the following additional
components: instructions for use; replacement parts for any of the components of the system or
                                              -32-

 prosthesis; and, tools for the repair of the system. In certain embodiments, the present kits
 comprise a plurality of valve prostheses, wherein the diameter of at least one of the prostheses in
 its expanded state is greater than the diameter of at least one other of the prostheses in its
 expanded state. Such embodiments account for the fact that user must choose a valve prosthesis
 that that is suitably sized in its expanded state for implantation in the particular site of interest
 within the particular patient at hand. The inner diameter of valve annuti vary within a particular
 patient, such that, for example, the diameter of the aortic valve annulus may be different from the
 diameter of the mitral valve annulus. Likewise, the inner diameter of a particular valve annulus,
 such as the mitral valve annulus, may vary from patient to patient, such that a first patient has a
 mitral valve annulus with a greater diamater than that of the mitral valve annulus of a second
 patient. Thus, a valve prosthesis must be selected to possess an appropriate diameter in its
 expanded state, wherein the propriety of a particular expanded diameter depends on the intended
site of implantation and on the particular subject. It is therefore advantageous to include within a
 kit of the present disclosure at least two prostheses, wherein the diameter of at least one of the
prostheses in its expanded state is greater than the diameter of at least one other of the prostheses
in its expanded state, so that a choice may be made, depending on the relevant criteria, from
among at least two different "sizes" of prosethesis.
          [0105]    The present kits may include at least two prostheses of which one possesses a
different type of valve than at least one other prosthesis. For example, a particular kit may
include three valve prostheses, of which two include a replacement mitral valve, and one
includes a replacement aortic valve. The systems that are described herein for inclusion in the
present kits may be used to deliver any type of prosthesis (including a prosthesis comprising any
type of valve) to a site of implantation, and the inclusion of prostheses that respectively include
different types of valves enables the user to select the prosthesis that is most suitable for the
intended purpose.
          [0106]    FIG. 7 depicts the components of an exemplary kit according to the present
disclosure. As shown in FIG, 7D, the kit comprises system that includes a catheter 30 that has a
distal end 32 and a proximal end 34. FIG. 7A provides a cross-sectional view of catheter 30 that
reveals the guidewire lumen 36 and three steering lumens 38. Returning to FIG. 7D, dock 40 is
at distal end 32 of catheter 30, and leading tip 42 is positioned distal to the dock 40. During use
of the system, a prosthesis will be loaded onto dock 40, Steering mechanism 44 is located at
proximal end 34 of catheter 30 and, in the depicted embodiment, comprises an obturator knob
46. The kit also includes a prosthesis comprising a stent 21 that comprises a wire framework,
shown in its expanded state in FIG. 7B and in its compressed state in FIG. 7C, The wire
                                              - 33 -

framework of stent 21 defines upper 22 and lower 24 flanges interposed by a middle region 28.
A valve 29 is fixedly attached to the interior of the stent 21.
          [0107]    The present disclosure also pertains to methods for delivering a valve prosthesis
comprising an at least partially self-expanding stent to an implantation site comprising: (i)
providing a system comprising a catheter comprising a distal end and a proximal end; a
guidewire lumen to permit the catheter to be translated along a guidewire; a steering lumen for
accommodating a tension cable for steering the catheter; a dock at the distal end onto which the
stent may be loaded; a retractable compression sleeve for compressing at least a portion of the
stent while the stent is loaded onto the dock; a leading tip positioned distal to the dock for
 leading the catheter during delivery; and, a steering mechanism operably associated with the
tension cable for deflecting the leading tip in at least one directional plane; (ii) loading onto the
dock the valve prosthesis; (iii) delivering a guidewire to the implantation site; (iv) translating the
catheter over the guidewire so that the loaded valve prosthesis is positioned at the implantation
site; (v) retracting the retractable compression sleeve to permit the stent to expand at the
implantation site and to undock from the catheter; and, (vi) removing the catheter and the
guidewire from the implantation site.
         [01081    Each of the attributes, components, materials, and the like that are described
above with respect to the inventive valve prostheses and systems may be used in accordance with
the prostheses and systems, respectively, that are used in accordance with the present methods.
         [0109]     FIGS. 8-9 illustrate an example of how retractable compression sleeves 48, 50
may be used to compress a stent 21 against the dock 40 of a catheter 30 during delivery to an
implantation site, and to permit the stent to expand at the implantation site and undock from the
catheter 30. FIG. 8A depicts a compressed stent 21 that is mounted on dock 40 of a catheter 30;
for simplicity, no compression sleeves are shown, even though the absence of a compression
sleeve would ordinarily allow the stent 21 to expand. FIG. 8B shows how a first compression
sleeve 48, shown as a dark gray layer (see illustrative inset X), is advanced over stent 21 and
functions to compress the middle region 28 of stent 21. Lower flange 24 is not covered by first
compression sleeve 48. In FIG. SC, a second compression sleeve 50, shown as a lighter gray
 layer (see illustrative inset Y) is advanced over both first compression sleeve 48 and stent 21,
this time including lower flange 24 of stent 21. Second compression sleeve 50 therefore ensures
that lower flange 24 remains compressed during delivery of the distal end of catheter 30 to an
 implantation site.
          [0110]    FIG. 9A-C depicts in reverse order how the withdrawal of compression sleeves
 allows a prosthesis comprising a stent to expand in a controlled, sequential manner. In FIG. 9C,
                                               -34-

  a first compression sleeve 48 and a second compression sleeve 50 are in place in coaxial
  arrangement over a stent that is mounted on the dock 40 of catheter 30; in concert, compression
  sleeves 48, 50 compress the middle region 28 of the stent and the flanges 22, 24 such that the
  stent remains mounted on dock 40. The light gray arrows in FIG. 9C indicate the direction in
  which second compression sleeve 50 is withdrawn over catheter 30 in order to proceed to the
  next step of the process of expanding the stent at the implantation site. FIG. 9B shows the results
  of withdrawing second compression sleeve 50: lower flange 24 has commenced to expand. The
  darker gray arrows in FIG. 9B indicate the direction in which first compression sleeve 48 is
  withdrawn over catheter 30 in order to permit expansion of each of the components of the stent.
  In FIG. 9A, first compression sleeve 48 has been fully withdrawn, and each of the lower flange
 24, upper flange 22, and middle region 28 of the stent 21 have fully expanded. Lower flange 24
  is bent back towards middle region 28, and any tissue that is interposed between these to
 components will be securely clamped.
           [01111  In some embodiments of the present methods, the dock of the catheter may
 comprise an inflatable balloon, and following retraction of a retractable compression sleeve, the
 method may further comprise at least partially inflating the balloon to further expand the stent.
 Although the stent is at least partially self-expanding, it may be desireable to use a balloon to
 ensure that the stent reaches its maximally expanded state.
          [0112]   FIG. 10 illustrates how the process described in FIG. 9 will result in the
 implantation in situ of a valve prosthesis that comprises a wire framework. In FIG. I0A, the
 implantation process is shown at the point where catheter 30 had been advanced to the
 implantation site (the mitral valve annulus), with leading tip 42 having been advanced past the
valve annulus into the ventricle, and the dock, loaded with a compressed valve prosthesis, having
been positioned within the valve annulus. FIG. 1OB shows how the initial withdrawal of a
compression sleeve from the loaded prosthesis results in the partial expansion and deployment of
Lower flange 24. In FIG. 1OC, the compression sleeve has been withdrawn even further, such
that a greater portion of lower flange 24 has expanded. FIG. I D depicts the implantation
process at the point when the compression sleeve has been filly withdrawn, lower flange 24 is
bent back towards middle region 28, which is fully expanded and exerting radial force against
the mitral valve annulus. Loose tissue on the ventricular side of the mitral valve annulus has
been grasped by lower flange 24, and clamped between lower flange 24 and stent middle region
28. Upper flange 22 is also in the fully expanded state, has grasped loose tissue on the atrial side
of the mitral valve annulus, and functions as a "cap" over the tissue on the atrial side of the
annulus.
                                               -35-

Example 1 - Percutaneous Implantation Via Transfemoral Approach
         [0113]    An exemplary delivery and implantation procedure may be performed as
 follows using the presently disclosed system for delivering a valve prosthesis, as well as a valve
prosthesis according to the present disclosure.
         [01141    First, the femoral vein (right or left) is accessed and a vascular sheath is inserted
using the seldinger technique. The atrial septum is crossed via standard transseptal technique,
and an atrial hole is created/enlarged via balloon dilation septostomy (10-15 mm angioplasty
balloon)
         [0115]    A super-stiff guidewirc is carefully shaped to and then positioned in the left
ventricle through the newly created atrial hole. The femoral venous access site is made larger or
"dilated up" with sequentially larger vascular dilators sized appropriately to match the diameter
of the delivery system.
         [0116]   The valve prosthesis is compressed and positioned on the dock of the delivery
system, and the system is otherwise prepared for insertion into the femoral vein. The loaded
delivery catheter is advanced over the wire, into the femoral vein, through the venous system,
across the atrial septal defect and then positioned at the level of the mitral annulus using ECHO
(transesophageal and or Intracardiac) and fluoroscopic guidance. The steering mechanism is
used to navigate the leading tip of the catheter through the vasculature and across the septum.
         [0117]   Once in position across the mitral annulus, deployment of the prosthesis is
accomplished by sequentially withdrawing the containment sleeves, allowing the stent to expand.
If necessary, the stent can be forcefully expanded to its nominal configuration by inflating a
balloon located in the dock portion of the delivery catheter.
         [0118]   ECHO and fluoroscopic assessment is used to confirm position and stability of
the device, If all looks stable, the delivery catheter is withdrawn from the body. A large
vascular sheath is placed into the femoral vein to promote hemostasis. The atrial septal defect is
closed using a percutaneous closure device (Amplatzer or Helex).
Example 2 - Calculation of "Extraction Force"
         [0119]   In situ, the prostheses according to the present invention exert a number of
different forces on the valve annulus and surrounding materiaL. Such forces contribute to the
unique ability of the prosthesis to remain anchored and properly positioned at the site of
implantation. For example, the upper and lower flanges respectively bend back towards the
middle region of the stent, and any tissue that is interposed between a flange and the middle
region will be grasped by the flange and clamped between the flange and the middle region. The
stent also exerts an outward radial force against the walls of the valve annulus. Although such
                                              -36-

                                                    37
  forces can be difficult to measure individually, the force that is required to extract an
  implanted prosthesis represents one proxy of the aggregate the various forces that are exerted
 by the stent.
           [0120]     An experiment was conducted to measure the extraction force of an
 exemplary prosthesis. The test was conducted using a freshly excised sheep heart that was
 externally fixed in a custom-designed box that was built to hold the heart in a stable, upright
 position. First, a left atriotomy was performed to expose the mitral annulus. The prosthesis
 was then deployed into the mitral annulus under direct visualization. Sutures were looped
 through the atrial arms of the device, gathered into a central confluence and then knotted
 together being careful to keep each suture strand an equal length (much like the chords of a
 parachute come to a confluence at the back of the parachutist). Using a force gauge, the
knotted sutures were pulled backward, using gradually increasing force to dislodge the device
 from the mitral annulus. The target for this process was that at least 15 Newtons of force
would be required to extract the prosthesis. In fact, the prosthesis remained affixed to the
annulus at 15 Newtons, and could not be extracted until the mitral valve and chordal tissue
began to tear, at a point when greater than 20 Newtons was measured. Accordingly, the
aggregate of the forces that were exerted by the prosthesis on the site of implantation enabled
the device to adhere to the annulus even when significant extraction forces were applied.
          [0121]      Those skilled in the art also will readily appreciate that many additional
modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiment without materially departing from
the novel teachings and advantages of the invention. Accordingly, any such modifications are
intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the following
exemplary claims.
         [0122]      Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in
this specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

CLAIMS:
1.      A mitral valve prosthesis comprising:
a stent having an expanded and an unexpanded state and that includes
         a long axis;
         a middle region having first and second ends and comprising a framework that defines
inner and outer surfaces;
         a lower flange portion at the first end of the middle region that comprises a plurality of
flange elements, each of said elements having a first end that is attached to the middle region and
an opposed second end that is spaced from the first end;
and,
         an upper flange portion at the second end of the middle region that comprises a plurality
of flange elements, each of said elements having a first end that is attached to the middle region
and an opposed second end that is spaced from the first end;
and,
         a valve that is attached to the inner surface of the middle region of the stent,
wherein,
        when said stent is in the unexpanded state, the upper and lower flange portions are
oriented substantially along the long axis of the stent;
        when said stent transitions from the unexpanded state to the expanded state, the lower
flange portion transitions in space so that it is no longer oriented substantially along the long axis
of the stent; and,
        when said stent is in the expanded state,
                 the lower flange portion is positioned sufficiently close to the outer surface of the
        middle region of the stent to grasp tissue at the ventricular side of the annulus by
         enfolding it between the lower flange portion and the outer surface of the middle region
         in order to anchor the stent at the ventricular side of the annulus,
         and
                 the upper flange portion is positioned sufficiently close to the outer surface of the
        middle region of the stent to grasp tissue at the atrial side of the annulus by enfolding it
                                                    38

        between the upper flange portion and the outer surface of the middle region in order to
        anchor the stent at the atrial side of the annulus.
2.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the lower flange portion is adapted to
anchor the stent within the mitral annulus by grasping the subvalvular apparatus at the
ventricular side of the annulus.
3.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the lower flange portion is adapted to
grasp leaflets of the native mitral valve by enfolding the leaflets between the lower flange
portion and the outer surface of the middle region in order to anchor the stent within the mitral
annulus.
4.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the lower flange portion is adapted to
anchor the stent within the mitral annulus by grasping chordea at the ventricular side of the
annulus.
5.      The valve prosthesis according to claim, 1 wherein the lower flange portion is adapted to
anchor the stent within the mitral annulus by grasping a left ventricular wall.
6.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the upper flange portion is adapted to
anchor the stent within the mitral annulus by grasping left atrial tissue.
7.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the lower flange portion is oriented at
an oblique angle relative to the long axis of the stent when the stent is in the expanded state.
8.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the lower flange portion is oriented
substantially parallel relative to the long axis of the stent when the stent is in the unexpanded
state.
9.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein said stent is self-expanding.
                                                    39

10.     The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the stent comprises a wire weave.
11.     The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the upper flange portion is oriented at
an oblique angle relative to the long axis of the stent when the stent is in the expanded state.
12.     The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein the upper flange portion is oriented
substantially parallel relative to the long axis of the stent when the stent is in the unexpanded
state.
13.     The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein when said stent transitions from the
unexpanded state to the expanded state, the upper flange portion transitions in space so that it is
no longer oriented substantially along the long axis of the stent.
14.     The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein when said stent transitions from the
unexpanded state to the expanded state, the second ends of the flange elements of the lower
flange portion move towards the middle region of the stent.
15.      The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein when said stent transitions from the
unexpanded state to the expanded state, the second ends of the flange elements of the upper
flange portion move towards the middle region of the stent.
16.       The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein when said stent transitions from the
unexpanded state to the expanded state, the second ends of the flange elements of the lower
flange portion orient away from the longitudinal axis of the stent.
17.       The valve prosthesis according to claim 1, wherein when said stent transitions from the
unexpanded state to the expanded state, the second ends of the flange elements of the upper
flange portion orient away from the longitudinal axis of the stent.
                                                   40

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
