         ABSTRACT
         This invention provides, and in certain specific but non-limiting aspects relates to:
   - assays that can be used to predict whether a given ISV will be subject to protein
     interference as described herein and/or give rise to an (aspecific) signal in such an assay
     (such as for example in an ADA immunoassay). Such predictive assays could for example
     be used to test whether a given ISV could have a tendency to give rise to such protein
     interference and/or such a signal; to select ISV's that are not or less prone to such protein
     interference or to giving such a signal; as an assay or test that can be used to test whether
10   certain modification(s) to an ISV will (fully or partially) reduce its tendency to give rise
     to such interference or such a signal; and/or as an assay or test that can be used to guide
     modification or improvement of an ISV so as to reduce its tendency to give rise to such
     protein interference or signal;
   - methods for modifying and/or improving IS V's to as to remove or reduce their tendency
     to give rise to such protein interference or such a signal;
   - modifications that can be introduced into an ISV that remove or reduce its tendency to
     give rise to such protein interference or such a signal;
   - ISV's that have been specifically selected (for example, using the assay(s) described
     herein) to have no or low(er)/reduced tendency to give rise to such protein interference or
20   such a signal;
   - modified and/or improved ISV's that have no or a low(er)/reduced tendency to give rise
     to such protein interference or such a signal.

                                                       1
               TECHNIQUES FOR PREDICTING, DETECTING AND REDUCING
                ASPECIFIC PROTEIN INTERFERENCE IN ASSAYS INVOLVING
                       IMMUNOGLOBULIN SINGLE VARIABLE DOMAINS
 5           The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
             The present invention relates to the field of immunoglobulin single variable domains.
             An immunoglobulin single variable domain or "ISV" is generally defined herein as an
   amino acid sequence that:
10 -    comprises an immunoglobulin fold or that, under suitable conditions (such as
        physiological conditions) is capable of forming an immunoglobulin fold (i.e., by folding),
        i.e., so as to form an immunoglobulin variable domain (such as, for example, a VH, VL or
        VHH domain);
   and that
15 -    forms (or under such suitable conditions is capable of forming) an immunoglobulin
        variable domain that comprises a functional antigen binding site (in the sense that it does
        not require an interaction with another immunoglobulin variable domain (such as a VH
        VL interaction) to form a functional antigen binding site).
             Some examples of immunoglobulin single variable domains that are currently known
20 in the art are VHH's and/or (other) Nanobodies, dAb's and (single) domain antibodies. Of
   these, as of the date of filing of the present application, various Nanobodies are in phase I and
   phase II clinical trials. This makes it important to have available reliable assays for analyzing
   biological samples from people that are treated with ISV's (such as clinical trial subjects and,
   after such ISV's reach the market, patients that are treated with such ISV's).
25           This is not only important for regulatory purposes, but also for the treatment of
   patients with biological drugs, because the clinicians that prescribe the treatment would also
   like to have available reliable assays to monitor various aspects of the treatment.
             For example, in the clinical development of biological drug molecules, it is important
   to assess their immunogenic potential, and in particular the degree to which they can elicit so
30 called "anti-drug antibodies" or "ADA's". This is determined using so-called "anti-drug
   antibody" or "ADA (immuno)assays" (see for example the review by Shankar et al., Journal
   of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Analysis, 48 (2008), 1267-128 1; as well as Mire-Sluis et
   al., J. Immunol. Meth. 289 (2004), 1-16; Peng et al., Journal of Pharmaceutical and

                                              1a
Biomedical Analysis, 54, (2011), 629-635; and Loyet et al., J. Immunol. Meth. 345 (2009),
17-28. Such ADA assays and methods for performing them are standard knowledge in the

                                                    2
   field of pharmacology and they are routinely used during the clinical development of
   biological drug products (as well as being required by various regulatory agencies around the
   world).
           For example, as described on pages 3 and 4 of the article by Mire-Sluis and as for
 5 example also exemplified schematically in the Figures of the article by Peng, a number of
   different ADA assay formats are known, such as "ELISA-bridging format", "ELISA-Direct
   Format", "Indirect Format", Radio Immuno-precipitation Assay (RIP), "Surface Plasmon
   Resonance" and "Electrochemiluminescence-Bridging Format". Other formats for
   performing ADA immunoassays will be clear to the skilled person.
10         The skilled person will also be familiar with a number of different commercially
   available technology platforms that have been shown to be suitable for setting up and
   performing ADA assays. These include but are not limited to the MSD platform
   (Mesoscale), Gyrolab (Gyros) and the octet platform (Fortebio).
           Some non-limiting examples of ADA assay formats are also schematically shown in
15 Figures 1A to IC.
           Generally, it should be noted that in such ADA assays for detecting or measuring
   ADA's against an ISV, the ISV is used as the "analytical agent" (i.e., as the compound used
   to detect whether any ADA's are present in the sample that is tested), and the ADA's are the
   "antigen" (i.e., the compound to be detected in the sample that is tested). Thus, in these
20 assays, the ISV will usually/often be bound to the carrier (such as the ELISA plate), whereas
   the ADA's (if any) will be present in the sample that is subjected to the assay.
           To better understand the invention described herein, it should already be noted that
   by contrast - in the methods that are used herein to predict whether an ISV will give rise to
   protein interference, the ISV will usually be used as the "antigen" (i.e., as the compound to be
25 detected), and an antibody (which is as further described herein) is used as the "analytical
   agent" (i.e., as a means to detect whether a given ISV binds or not, respectively; and thus has
   a high or increased risk of giving rise to protein interference or not, respectively). Thus, in
   this method according to the invention, the antibody used as analytical agent (which is also
   referred to herein as the "analyticalantibody") will usually be bound to the carrier (i.e., to the
30 ELISA plate) and the ISV will be (present in) the sample to be tested. However, it should
   generally be noted that the invention is not limited to assays in which the "analytical
   antibody" is bound to the carrier. For example, in an alternative way of performing an assay
   according to the invention (As shown for instance in Figure 1 and described in the

                                                     3
   Examples), the analytical antibody is instead used as a bridging agent and thus will be in
    solution rather than bound to the plate (although it is indirectly bound to the plate via the ISV
   that is coated on the plate). However, also in the specific bridging assay described in the
   Examples (which is a competitive assay) the analytical antibody is still used as the analytical
 5 agent (i.e., to determine whether the ISV of interest binds or not, respectively; and thus has a
   high or increased risk of giving rise to protein interference or not, respectively). It is also
   envisaged that, based on the further disclosure herein, the skilled person will be able to
   design other assay formats in which the analytical antibody can be used as an analytical agent
   in order to determine whether a given ISV can bind or not, respectively; and thus has a high
10 or increased risk of giving rise to protein interference or not).
            As a result of research into single chain Fv's or "ScFv's" (which are constructs that
   contain immunoglobulin single variable domains that, similar to ISV's, are not associated
   with constant domains), it has been described in the art that the C-terminus of an
   immunoglobulin variable domain forms a hydrophobic patch that in an antibody is buried in
15 the interface between the variable domain and the constant domain but that becomes solvent
   exposed when the variable domain is not associated with a constant domain (Nieba et al.,
   Protein Engineering, 10, 435-444 (1997)). It has also been described that the exposed C
   terminus may form B-cell epitopes which can give rise to and/or interact with (emerging
   and/or pre-existing) anti-drug antibodies (WO 11/07586), the presence of which can then be
20 determined using the ADA assays referred to above. For this reason, it has been proposed to
   make mutations to some of the amino acid residues that form part of the C-terminus of the
   variable domains to reduce said hydrophobicity and/or to remove said epitopes. For example,
   Nieba et al. suggest to mutate positions 11, 14, 41, 84, 87 and/or 89 of a VH region
   (numbering according to Kabat), whereas in WO 11/07586 it is suggested to mutate positions
25 99, 101 and/or 148 (AHo numbering) of a VL domain or positions 12, 97, 98, 99, 103 and/or
    144 of a VH domain (again AHo numbering - these positions correspond to positions 11, 83,
   84, 85, 89 and 103 according to Kabat).
           However, neither of these references recognizes that certain proteins present in the
   blood or serum of a subject can interfere with ADA assays involving ISV's, and because of
30 this these references are not directed to (nor offer a solution for) the problem of how to avoid
   aspecific protein interference in such ADA assays so as to allow the ADA assay to be used to
   determine the true presence/extent of (arising or pre-existing) anti-drug antibodies in the
   sample to be tested.

                                                    4
            By contrast, the present invention provides methods and assays that easily allow the
   skilled person to predict whether an immunoglobulin single variable domain will or will not
   have a tendency to undergo aspecific protein interference in an ADA assay. The methods and
   assays described herein also allow the skilled person, when it is found that a variable domain
 5 may have a tendency or risk to undergo such protein interference in an ADA assay, to easily
   test (proposed) modifications to a variable domain in order to predict whether any such
   (proposed) modifications will reduce or essentially completely avoid such protein
   interference.
            The present invention also describes a number of modifications that can be made to
10 variable domains in order to reduce or essentially avoid such protein interference. According
   to one non-limiting aspect, this modification involves adding a limited number (as further
   described herein) of amino acid residues (as further described herein) to the C-terminal end of
   the variable domain. Surprisingly, it has been found that, for a number of different variable
   domains or constructs based thereon, even adding a single amino acid residue to the C
15 terminal end (such as a single alanine residue) can substantially or even essentially
   completely remove the problem of protein interference in ADA assays, even though adding
   one such amino acid is by itself is not sufficient to "cover" or "bury" the hydrophobic patch
   that according to Nieba et al. is present at the C-terminus of an ISV. Similarly, but without
   wishing to limit the invention in any way or to any mechanism or explanation, is also
20 assumed that adding one such amino acid would not be sufficient to "cover " or "bury" any B
   cell epitopes that according to WO 11/07586 may be present at the C-terminus of a variable
   domain It should also be noted that, although according to this specific aspect of the present
   invention, adding a limited number or even a single amino acid at the C-terminus of the
   variable domain (i.e. without making any substitutions within the C-terminal region itself, as
25 proposed by Nieba et al and WO 11/07586) may - and in many cases will - significantly
   reduce or even essentially remove the problem of aspecific protein interference, it is also
   within the scope of this aspect of the invention that such additions to the C-terminal end are
   combined with mutations in the C-terminal region. In this respect, however, it should also be
   noted that the invention is not particularly limited as to the rationale behind making such
30 mutations. For example, it is well known to make mutations to amino acid residues within the
   C-terminus (including at those positions that are explicitly referred to by Nieba et al. and in
   WO 11/07586) in order to humanize a variable domain (including, without limitation, a VHH

                                                   5
   domain) or in order to "camelize" a VH domain (reference is for example made to WO
   08/020079 and some of the other applications by Ablynx N.V. referred to herein).
           It is envisaged that the methods, assays and modifications taught herein can be applied
   to any variable domain that is not linked to or otherwise associated with a constant domain
 5 (or with another group or peptide moiety that functions to "shield", cover or "bury" the C
   terminal region of the variable domain) and more generally to any variable domain that has a
   C-terminal regions that is solvent-exposed. However, according to one preferred, but non
   limiting aspect of the invention, the methods, assays and modifications may in particular be
   applied to heavy chain variable domains (VH domains), and according to one specific aspect
10 of the invention to VHH domains.
           It is also envisaged that the methods, assays and modifications described herein can be
   suitably applied to protein constructs that contain one or more variable domains, and in
   particular to such constructs in which a variable domain forms the C-terminal part of the
   construct or, in the case of the methods and assays described herein, in which the C-terminal
15 region of a variable domain is otherwise solvent-exposed. Again, according to one preferred,
   but non-limiting aspect of the invention, the methods, assays and modifications are applied to
   constructs in which a VH domain (and in particular a VHH domain) forms the C-terminal part
   of the construct or, in case of the methods and assays of the invention, is otherwise solvent
   exposed.
20         Some non-limiting examples of such constructs are multivalent, multispecific (such as
   bispecific) or multiparatopic (such as biparatopic) constructs that contain two or more ISV's
   linked directly or via one or more suitable linkers (with again, according to one specific
   aspect, a VH or VHH domain) forming the C-terminal part of such a construct. For example,
   and without limitation, such a construct may be entirely comprised of VH domains, and in
25 particular of Nanobodies (i.e. VHH domains, humanized VHH domains or camelized VH
   domains), again linked directly or via one or more suitable linkers. For some non-limiting
   examples of such constructs and a general teaching on how such constructs can be made (in
   particular based on Nanobodies) reference is for example made to Conrath et al., JBC 276,
   10(9), 7346 (2001) as well as to the review article by Muyldermans. Reviews in Mol.
30 Biotechnol., 74: 27 (2001).
           However, it is for example also envisaged that the invention can be applied to other
   constructs which have a solvent-exposed variable domain and in particular have a variable

                                                    6
   domain at their C-terminus, such as for example single chain Fv's, and in particular ScFv's
   that have their heavy chain variable domain at the C-terminus.
           In the present specification and claims, terms like "ISV", "analytical agent" and
   '"protein interference" have the meaning as further defined herein.
 5         In particular, an ISV as described herein may in particular either be a Nanobody or
   an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH domain or that comprises a VH
   domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
           Also, any protein or polypeptide that comprises an ISV (such as an ISV-based drug)
   preferably has said (or at least one) such ISV at its C-terminal end. Again, said ISV may in
10 particular either be a Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH
   domain or that comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
           The invention described herein is in particular intended and suitable to be applied to
   ISVs that comprise, are based on and/or have been derived from heavy chain variable
   domains, such as VH domains (including human VH domains) and Nanobodies such as VHH
15 domains (including humanized and sequence optimized VHH domains) or camelized VH
   domains. These may be synthetic (for example, obtained starting from a synthetic library
   and/or based on a fixed framework regions), semi-synthetic (for example, humanized,
   camelized or sequence-optimized, or obtained by affinity maturation or CDR grafting,
   starting from a natural VH or VHH domain) or fully naturally occurring VH or VHH
20 domains. The invention will therefore be further described herein with reference to ISV's that
   are, are based on and/or have been derived from VH or VHH domains.
           In establishing the present invention, it has been found that in some assays (such as,
   for example, in ADA immunoassays) that are used for analyzing biological samples (such as
   blood samples including whole blood, serum and plasma, ocular fluid, bronchoalveolar
25 fluid/BALF, cerebrospinal fluid or other samples of biological fluids) protein interference
   may occur, and that such protein interference may give rise to an aspecific signal in some of
   these assays and/or in some of these samples. It has also been found that such protein
   interference may occur not only in samples that were obtained from subjects that have been
   treated with ISV's (and in particular with Nanobodies; or with proteins, polypeptides or other
30 biological drugs that comprise at least one such ISV or Nanobody) and/or to whom the same
   have been administered (such as patients or clinical trial subjects), but also in samples from
   subjects that have never received an ISV (indicating that such interference is likely due to an

                                                     7
    aspecific protein-protein interaction with pre-existing proteins rather than any emerging
   ADA's).
             Although it has been found that such protein interference and/or such a signal in such
    assays is not associated with any change or reduction in pharmacological properties (such as
 5 pharmacokinetic/PK or pharmacodynamic/PD properties) of the ISV's, it would be desirable
   to have techniques available for predicting, detecting, reducing and/or if possible avoiding
    such aspecific protein interference. This is the general objective of the present invention.
            In particular, the invention provides, and in certain specific but non-limiting aspects
   relates to:
10 -    assays that can be used to predict whether a given ISV will be subject to such protein
        interference and/or give rise to such an (aspecific) signal in such an assay (such as for
        example in an ADA immunoassay). Such predictive assays could for example be used to
        test whether a given ISV could have a tendency to give rise to such protein interference
        and/or such a signal; to select ISV's that are not or less prone to such protein interference
15      or to giving such a signal; as an assay or test that can be used to test whether certain
       modification(s) to an ISV will (fully or partially) reduce its tendency to give rise to such
        interference or such a signal; and/or as an assay or test that can be used to guide
       modification or improvement of an ISV so as to reduce its tendency to give rise to such
       protein interference or signal;
20 -   methods for modifying and/or improving ISV's to as to remove or reduce their tendency
       to give rise to such protein interference or such a signal;
   -   modifications that can be introduced into an ISV that remove or reduce its tendency to
       give rise to such protein interference or such a signal;
   -   ISV's that have been specifically selected (for example, using the assay(s) described
25     herein) to have no or low(er)/reduced tendency to give rise to such protein interference or
       such a signal;
   -   modified and/or improved ISV's that have no or a low(er)/reduced tendency to give rise
       to such protein interference or such a signal,
            For example, in a first non-limiting aspect, the invention relates to a method that can
30 be used to predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug)
   will give rise to (or has an high or increased risk of giving rise to) protein interference in an
   immunoassay (i.e., after it has been administered to a subject, a sample of a biological fluid

                                                     8
   has been obtained from said subject, and said sample is subjected to an immunoassay as
   further described herein), said method comprising performing an immunoassay that at least
   comprises the steps of:
       (i)       contacting said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) with
 5               an antibody that has been obtained from a human subject and that has been
                 selected, generated and/or isolated based on its ability to recognize and/or bind to
                 the C-terminal end of an ISV or Nanobody (the "analytical antibody"); and
       (ii)      determining whether said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based
                 drug) is bound by said antibody in said immunoassay.
10          In this method, when the ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is
   bound by said analytical antibody, it can be expected that said ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based
   drug or Nanobody-based drug will give rise to (or has a high or increased risk of giving rise
   to) such protein interference (as further defined herein). Based on this, for example, said ISV,
   Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug may be modified or improved so as to
15 reduce or remove its tendency to give rise to such protein interference (which may again be
   determined using the assay above), and some strategies that can be used to modify said ISV,
   Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug will be described herein (and for
   example include attaching a small number of amino acid residues to the C-terminal end
   and/or introducing one or more specific amino acid substitutions).
20          Thus, generally, the invention makes available to the skilled person assays and
   methods/techniques that can be used to predict the tendency of an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based
   drug or Nanobody-based drug to give rise to protein interference and/or as a tool to improve
   ISVs so as to reduce or avoid their tendency to give rise to protein interference. In doing so,
   the invention also provides the skilled person with means to select ISV's, Nanobodies, ISV
25 based drugs or Nanobody-based drugs based on their low or reduced ability (or the absence
   of any ability) to give rise to protein interference. Thus, the invention provides the skilled
   person with an important assay and tool that can be used in the optimization and development
   of ISV's, Nanobodies, ISV-based drugs or Nanobody-based drugs.
            Also, as further described herein, the invention teaches the skilled person a number of
30 ways in which an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug can be modified
   or improved so as to reduce or avoid their tendency to give rise to protein interference. Thus,
   the invention also generally makes available modified and/or improved ISV's, Nanobodies,

                                                    9
   ISV-based drugs or Nanobody-based drugs with a reduced, low or without any tendency to
   give rise to protein interference.
            As further described herein, the invention can in particular be used to predict whether
   a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give rise to protein
 5 interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay, and more in particular in an
   ADA assay. Said ADA assay may for example be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring
   ADA's against ISV's generally, and may in particular be an ADA assay for detecting or
   measuring ADA's against the ISV used in steps (i) and (ii) above.
            Again, as mentioned herein, an ISV as described herein may in particular either be a
10 Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH domain or that
   comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
            Also, any protein or polypeptide that comprises an ISV (such as an ISV-based drug)
   preferably has said (or at least one) such ISV at its C-terminal end. Again, said ISV may in
   particular either be a Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH
15 domain or that comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
            The sample that is tested in said immunoassay or ADA assay is also referred to herein
   as the "test sample" or "assay sample". To avoid confusion, such as "test sample" or "assay
   sample" should not be confused with the biological sample that is used herein as a starting
   material for obtaining the (polyclonal or monoclonal) "analytical antibody" used in the
20 invention.
            In one particular preferred but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to
   predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give
   rise to protein interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay (and in particular,
   in an ADA assay) that involves the use of such an ISV. Again, said ADA assay may for
25 example be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring ADA's against ISV's generally, and
   may in particular be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring ADA's against the ISV used in
   steps (i) and (ii) above.
            In an even more particular but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to
   predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give
30 rise to protein interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay (and in particular,
   in an ADA assay) that is intended to determine or measure whether the sample contains any
   ADA's against the ISV. Again, for example, such an immunoassay may be one of the known
   types of ADA assay (for which reference is for example made to the prior art on ADA assays

                                                    10
   cited herein) that is performed to determine or measure whether any ADA's against said ISV
   are present in the "test sample", wherein said test sample is a sample of biological fluid (as
   described herein) that is obtained from a subject to which said ISV has been administered (as
   further described herein).
 5         As further described herein, in all these aspects (and the further aspects of the
   invention described herein), the invention can also be used to select ISV's that are not or less
   prone to such protein interference in such immunoassays or ADA assays; as an assay or test
   that can be used to test whether certain modification(s) to an ISV will (fully or partially)
   reduce its tendency to give rise to such interference in such immunoassays or ADA assays;
10 and/or as an assay or test that can be used to guide modification or improvement of an ISV so
   as to reduce its tendency to give rise to such protein interference in such immunoassays or
   ADA assays.
           Other aspects, embodiments, advantages and applications of the invention will
   become clear from the further description herein.
15         In the present specification, whenever the term "ISV" is used, it should be understood
   that:
   -   such an ISV is preferably a Nanobody, in which the term "Nanobody" is generally as
       defined in or WO 08/020079 or WO 09/138519, and thus in a specific aspect generally
       denotes a VHH, a humanized VHH or a camelized VH (such as a camelized human VH)
20     or generally a sequence optimized VHH (such as e.g. optimized for chemical stability
       and/or solubility, maximum overlap with known human framework regions and
       maximum expression). It is noted that the terms Nanobody or Nanobodies are registered
       trademarks of Ablynx N.V. and thus may also be referred to as Nanobody@ and/or
       Nanobodies@);
25 -   the term "ISV" in its broadest sense also includes "ISV-based biologicals" and, when the
       ISV is a Nanobody, "Nanobody-based biologicals". An "ISV-based biological" is defined
       herein as a protein, polypeptide or other biological drug that comprises or essentially
       consist of at least one (such as one, two or three) ISV's. Similarly, a "Nanobody-based
       biological" is defined as a protein, polypeptide or other biological drug that comprises or
30     essentially consist of at least one (such as one, two or three) Nanobodies. As with the
       term "ISV", whenever the term "ISV-based biological" is used, it should be understood
       that such an ISV-based biological is preferably a Nanobody-based biological. Within the

                                                  11
      context of the present invention, both an "ISV-based biological" and a "Nanobody-based
      biological" may for example be a monovalent, bivalent (or multivalent), bispecific (or
      multispecific), and biparatopic (or "multiparatopic) ISV construct or Nanobody construct,
      respectively. Also, any ISV-based or Nanobody-based biological may for example, in
 5     addition to the one or more (such as one, two or three) ISV's or Nanobodies, optionally
       further comprise one or more (such as one or two) other further therapeutic moieties
      and/or one or more (such as one or two) other moieties that influence the pharmacokinetic
      or pharmacodynamic properties of the ISV-based or Nanobody-based biological (such as
      its half-life). Suitable examples of such further therapeutic or other moieties will be clear
10    to the skilled person, and for example generally can include any therapeutically active
      protein, polypeptide or other binding domain or binding unit, as well as for example
      modifications such as those described on pages 149 to 152 of WO 09/138159. An ISV
      based biological or Nanobody-based biological is preferably a therapeutic or intended for
      use as a therapeutic (which includes prophylaxis and diagnosis) and for this purpose
15    preferably contains at least one ISV against a therapeutically relevant target (such as for
       example RANK-L, vWF, IgE, RSV, CXCR4, IL-23 or other interleukins, etc.). For some
       specific but non-limiting examples of such ISV-based or Nanobody-based biologicals,
      reference is for example made to the various applications by Ablynx N.V. (such as for
      example and without limitation WO 2004/062551, WO 2006/122825, WO 2008/020079
20    and WO 2009/068627), as well as for example (and without limitation) to applications
      such as WO 06/038027, WO 06/059108, WO 07/063308, WO 07/063311, WO
      07/066016 and WO 07/085814.Also, in the present specification, unless explicitly
      mentioned otherwise herein, all terms mentioned herein have the meaning given in WO
      09/138519 (or in the prior art cited in WO 09/138519) or WO 08/020079 (or in the prior
25    art cited in WO 08/020079). Also, where a method or technique is not specifically
      described herein, it can be performed as described in WO 09/138519 (or in the prior art
      cited in WO 09/138519) or WO 08/020079 (or in the prior art cited in WO 08/020079).
           In particular, the following terms have the same meaning as given on, and/or where
   applicable can be determined in the manner described in, pages 62-75 of WO 09/138519:
30 "agonist", "antagonist","inverse agonist", "non-polar, unchargedamino acid residue",
   "polaruncharged amino acid residue", "polar,chargedamino acid residue", "sequence
   identity", "exactly the same" and "amino acid difference" (when referring to a sequence

                                                     12
   comparison of two amino acid sequences), "(in) essentially isolated (form) ", "domain",
   "bindingdomain", "antigenic determinant" ,"epitope", "against"or "directedagainst"(an
   antigen),"specificity" and "half-life". In addition, the terms "modulating" and "to modulate",
   "interactionsite", "specificfor", "cross-block", "cross-blocked" and "cross-blocking" and
 5 "essentially independent of the pI" are as defined on (and/or can be determined as described
   on) pages 74-79 of WO 10/130832 of applicant. Also, when referring to a construct,
   compound, protein or polypeptide of the invention, terms like "monovalent", "bivalent" (or
   "multivalent"), "bispecific" (or "multispecific"), and "biparatopic"(or "multiparatopic")may
   have the meaning given in WO 09/138.519, WO 10/130832 or WO 08/020079.
10         The term "half-life" as used herein relation to an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based
   biological, Nanobody-based biological or any other amino acid sequence, compound or
   polypeptide can generally be defined as described in paragraph o) on page 57 of WO
   08/020079 and as mentioned therein refers to the time taken for the serum concentration of
   the amino acid sequence, compound or polypeptide to be reduced by 50%, in vivo, for
15 example due to degradation of the sequence or compound and/or clearance or sequestration
   of the sequence or compound by natural mechanisms. The in vivo half-life of an amino acid
   sequence, compound or polypeptide of the invention can be determined in any manner known
   per se, such as by pharmacokinetic analysis. Suitable techniques will be clear to the person
   skilled in the art, and may for example generally be as described in paragraph o) on page 57
20 of WO 08/020079. As also mentioned in paragraph o) on page 57 of WO 08/020079, the half
   life can be expressed using parameters such as the tl/2-alpha, tl/2-beta and the area under the
   curve (AUC). In this respect it should be noted that the term "half-life" as used herein in
   particular refers to the tl /2-beta or terminal half-life (in which the tl/2-alpha and/or the AUC
   or both may be kept out of considerations). Reference is for example made to the
25 Experimental Part below, as well as to the standard handbooks, such as Kenneth, A et al:
   Chemical Stability of Pharmaceuticals: A Handbook for Pharmacists and Peters et al,
   Pharmacokinete analysis: A Practical Approach (1996). Reference is also made to
   "Pharmacokinetics", M Gibaldi & D Perron, published by Marcel Dekker, 2nd Rev. edition
   (1982). Similarly, the terms "increase in half-life" or "increased half-life" as also as defined
30 in paragraph o) on page 57 of WO 08/020079 and in particular refer to an increase in the tl/2
   beta, either with or without an increase in the tl/2-alpha and/or the AUC or both.
           When a term is not specifically defined herein, it has its usual meaning in the art,
   which will be clear to the skilled person. Reference is for example made to the standard

                                                   13
   handbooks, such as Sambrook et al, "Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual" (2nd.Ed.),
   Vols. 1-3, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press (1989); F. Ausubel et al, eds., "Current
   protocols in molecular biology", Green Publishing and Wiley Interscience, New York (1987);
   Lewin, "Genes II", John Wiley & Sons, New York, N.Y., (1985); Old et al., "Principles of
 5  Gene Manipulation: An Introduction to Genetic Engineering", 2nd edition, University of
    California Press, Berkeley, CA (1981); Roitt et al., "Immunology" (6th. Ed.),
   Mosby/Elsevier, Edinburgh (200 1); Roitt et al., Roitt's Essential Immunology, 10th Ed.
   Blackwell Publishing, UK (2001); and Janeway et al., "Immunobiology" (6th Ed.), Garland
    Science Publishing/Churchill Livingstone, New York (2005), as well as to the general
10 background art cited herein.
           Also, herein, the amino acid residues of a Nanobody are numbered according to the
   general numbering for VH domains given by Kabat et al. ("Sequence of proteins of
   immunological interest", US Public Health Services, NIH Bethesda, MD, Publication No.
   91), as applied to VHH domains from Camelids in the article of Riechmann and
15 Muyldermans, J. Immunol. Methods 2000 Jun 23; 240 (1-2): 185-195; or referred to herein.
   According to this numbering, FR1 of a Nanobody comprises the amino acid residues at
   positions 1-30, CDR1 of a Nanobody comprises the amino acid residues at positions 31-35,
   FR2 of a Nanobody comprises the amino acids at positions 36-49, CDR2 of a Nanobody
   comprises the amino acid residues at positions 50-65, FR3 of a Nanobody comprises the
20 amino acid residues at positions 66-94, CDR3 of a Nanobody comprises the amino acid
   residues at positions 95-102, and FR4 of a Nanobody comprises the amino acid residues at
   positions 103-113. [In this respect, it should be noted that - as is well known in the art for VH
   domains and for VHH domains - the total number of amino acid residues in each of the
   CDR's may vary and may not correspond to the total number of amino acid residues
25 indicated by the Kabat numbering (that is, one or more positions according to the Kabat
   numbering may not be occupied in the actual sequence, or the actual sequence may contain
   more amino acid residues than the number allowed for by the Kabat numbering). This means
   that, generally, the numbering according to Kabat may or may not correspond to the actual
   numbering of the amino acid residues in the actual sequence. Generally, however, it can be
30 said that, according to the numbering of Kabat and irrespective of the number of amino acid
   residues in the CDR's, position 1 according to the Kabat numbering corresponds to the start
   of FRi and vice versa, position 36 according to the Kabat numbering corresponds to the start
   of FR2 and vice versa, position 66 according to the Kabat numbering corresponds to the start

                                                    14
   of FR3 and vice versa, and position 103 according to the Kabat numbering corresponds to the
   start of FR4 and vice versa.].
           Alternative methods for numbering the amino acid residues of VH domains, which
   methods can also be applied in an analogous manner to VHH domains from Camelids and to
 5 Nanobodies, are the method described by Chothia et al. (Nature 342, 877-883 (1989)), the so
   called "AbM definition" and the so-called "contact definition". However, in the present
   description, aspects and figures, the numbering according to Kabat as applied to VHH
   domains by Riechmann and Muyldermans will be followed, unless indicated otherwise.
            It should also be noted that the Figures, any Sequence Listing and the Experimental
10 Part/Examples are only given to further illustrate the invention and should not be interpreted
   or construed as limiting the scope of the invention and/or of the appended claims in any way,
   unless explicitly indicated otherwise herein.
            It should further be noted that the present invention is not specifically limited to any
   causation, explanation, hypothesis or mechanism of/for the protein interference (and/or
15 signals arising in immunoassays) that is observed in, and that may be reduced according to,
   the present invention. However, it is assumed that the blood or serum (or other biological
   fluids, such as those mentioned herein) of certain individuals or groups of individuals may
   contain certain (pre-existing) proteins that under certain circumstances may (aspecifically)
   bind to ISV's leading to a interfering signal in certain assays that are used to analyze blood or
20 serum samples obtained from such individuals. This is inter aliabased on the observation
   made in establishing the present invention that the aspecific protein interference that is
   addressed by the present invention not only occurs when assaying samples that have been
   obtained from subjects to which an ISV has previously been administered, but also when
   assaying sample that have been obtained from subjects that have not previously received an
25 ISV.
            In particular, based on the observations that have been made in establishing the
   present invention, and although the invention is not limited thereto, it is thought that such
   (pre-existing) proteins may in particular (be able to) bind to the C-terminal end of such ISV's
   (which, in full sized conventional 4-chain monoclonal antibody as well as in the "heavy-chain
30 only" antibodies that are found in Camelidae, are linked to the rest of the antibody - i.e. to the
   CHl region in conventional monoclonals and to the hinge region in Camelidae heavy chain
   antibodies, respectively - and thus in such full-sized antibodies may be shielded from such
   protein interference).

                                                   15
            This is confirmed by the findings made by the present inventors in establishing the
   present invention (which findings are further described herein) that certain (simple)
   modifications of ISV's at their C-terminal end may substantially reduce or essentially prevent
    such protein interference. Accordingly, methods for modifying ISV's in this manner as well
 5 as ISV's that have been modified in this manner form further aspects of the invention, as
   further described herein.
           The present invention can in particular be used to reduce or avoid protein interference
   and/or signals due to aspecific binding in immunoassays that are performed on biological
   samples (such as blood or serum samples) obtained from a subject to whom a (biological)
10 drug has been administered (again, such samples are also referred to herein as the "test
   sample" or "assay sample"). Some examples of this are immunoassays that are used for
   characterization of drug disposition and of the formation of antibodies upon administration of
   a biological drug to a subject, such as those referred to in the "Guideline on the Clinical
   Investigation of the Pharmacokineticsof Therapeutic Proteins" (document
15 CHMP/EWP/89249/2004 dated January 27, 2007) issued by the Committee for Medicinal
   Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA). As stated on
   pages 4 and 5 of this document:
           "Severalpossible weaknesses have been identified and may result in erroneous
20         characterisationof drug disposition and of the formation of antibodies.The following
           issues should be considered[..J:
           Immunoassav
            Drug assay:
25         [...]
           (iii)Interference by endogenous substances.
           (iv) Interference by plasma components or anti-drugantibodies binding to the analyte
           and inhibiting the complementary binding to capture antibody."
30         The invention can in particular be used in order to predict, reduce or avoid this type of
   interference in immunoassays that are used in analyzing test samples/assay samples of
   biological fluids taken from subjects to whom ISV's (and in particular Nanobodies; or an

                                                    16
   ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based biological, as further defined herein) have been
   administered.
           The invention can in particular be used in order to predict, reduce or avoid this type
   (aspecific) protein interference in immunoassays that are used for characterization of drug
 5 disposition and/or for determining the formation of any ADA's (anti-drug) antibodies. In this
   respect, should be noted that generally in this specification and in the attached claims, when
   wording like "predicting, reduce or avoiding protein interference" is used, this does not only
   include predicting, reduce or avoiding such protein interference per se, but also generally
   predicting, reduce or avoiding the occurrence of aspecific signals in immunoassays (such as
10 those in which (aspecific) signals associated with protein interference may occur, for example
   in ADA assays), and in particular predicting, reduce or avoiding, in such immunoassays, the
   occurrence of aspecific signals that, when they are observed in such an assay, are usually
   attributed to, associated with and/or taken as a sign of (aspecific) protein interference. In this
   respect, it should generally be noted that, as mentioned herein, the present invention is not
15 specifically limited to any causation, explanation, hypothesis or mechanism.
           In one specific but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to predict, avoid or
   reduce such protein interference in "anti-drug antibody" or "ADA" assays that are performed
   on samples (i.e., "test samples") of biological fluids taken from subjects to whom ISV's (and
   in particular Nanobodies; or an ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based biological, as
20 further defined herein) have been administered.
           In another specific but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to predict, avoid
   or reduce such protein interference (and/or aspecific signals usually associated with the same)
   in "anti-drug antibody" or "ADA" assays that are used to detect, measure and/or characterize
   the presence of (any) anti-drug antibodies against one or more ISV's (and in particular
25 against Nanobodies; or an ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based biological, as further
   defined herein). In particular, the invention can be used to predict, avoid or reduce such
   protein interference in such "anti-drug antibody" or "ADA" assays that are performed on
    samples (i.e., "test samples") of biological fluids, and more in particular on samples of
   biological fluids of that have been obtained from a subject to whom one or more such ISV's
30 or Nanobodies (or an ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based biological, as further defined
   herein) have been administered. For example, the invention can be used to predict, avoid or
   reduce such protein interference in such "anti-drug antibody" or "ADA" assays that are used
   to detect, measure and/or characterize the presence of (any) anti-drug antibodies against the

                                                     17
   ISV or Nanobody (or an ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based biological, as further
   defined herein) that has been administered to the subject from which the sample has been
   obtained (either in the context of a clinical trial and/or in the context of therapy).
            Thus, in one specific, but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to predict,
 5 avoid or reduce such protein interference (and/or aspecific signals usually associated with the
   same) in biological samples (i.e., "test samples") obtained from a subject to whom one or
   more such ISV's or Nanobodies (or an ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based biological,
   as further defined herein) have been administered, wherein said samples as suitable for and/or
   intended for use in an immunological assay, such as an ADA assay. As mentioned, such a
10 biological sample may be blood (including whole blood, serum or plasma), ocular fluid,
   bronchoalveolar fluid/BALF, cerebrospinal fluid or any other suitable biological fluid or
   sample that is suitable for use in an immunoassay, and in particular an ADA assay.
            In one specific, but non-limiting aspect, such a test sample may have been obtained
   from a subject that has been subjected to multiple administrations (for example at least 1 to 3
15 separate administrations over a period of at least 10 days, such as at least one month or
   longer) and/or to chronic treatment (i.e. treatment during at least 10 days such as at least one
   month) with an ISV, Nanobody, an ISV-based biological (as further defined herein) or
   Nanobody-based biological (as further defined herein). Such an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based
   biological or Nanobody-based biological may for example have been administered to said
20 subject in the context of therapy or in the context of a clinical trial.
            In one specific, but non-limiting aspect, such a test sample may have been obtained
   from a subject to which a ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based biological or Nanobody-based
   biological has been administered that has (and/or has been provided with) an increased half
   life (as defined herein, and compared to a monovalent ISV), for example a half-life of at least
25 1 day, preferably at least 3 days, more preferably at least 7 days, such as at least 10 days in
   the subject to which the same is/has been administered.
            For example and without limitation, such an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based biological or
   Nanobody-based biological may have been provided with an increased half-life by
   functionalization and/or by including in the construct a moiety or binding unit that increases
30 the half-life of the construct. Examples of such functionalization, moieties or binding units
   will be clear to the skilled person and may for example be as described herein, and for
   example may include pegylation, fusion to serum albumin, or fusion to a peptide or binding
   unit that can bind to a serum protein such as serum albumin. Such a serum-albumin binding

                                                    18
   peptide or binding domain may be any suitable serum-albumin binding peptide or binding
   domain capable of increasing the half-life of the construct (compared to the same construct
   without the serum-albumin binding peptide or binding domain), and may in particular be
   serum albumin binding peptides as described in WO 2008/068280 by applicant (and in
 5 particular WO 2009/127691 and the non-prepublished US application 61/301,819, both by
   applicant), or a serum-albumin binding ISV (such as a serum-albumin binding Nanobody; for
   example Alb-l or a humanized version of Alb-1 such as Alb-8, for which reference is for
   example made to WO 06/122787).
            Thus, in one specific but non-limiting aspect, such a biological sample may have been
10 obtained from a subject to which an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based biological or Nanobody
   based biological has been administered that comprises a (human) serum albumin-binding
   binding peptide or binding domain.
            As already mentioned above, in one non-limiting aspect, the invention generally
   relates to a method that can be used to predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV
15 based or Nanobody-based drug) will give rise to (or has high or increased tendency to give
   rise to) protein interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay (i.e. after said
   ISV has been administered to a subject, a sample of a biological fluid has been obtained from
   said subject, and said biological fluid is subjected to an immunoassay as further described
   herein), said method comprising performing an immunoassay that at least comprises the steps
20 of:
       (i)      contacting said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) with
                an antibody that has been obtained from a human subject and that has been
                selected, generated and/or isolated based on its ability to recognize and/or bind to
                the C-terminal end of an ISV or Nanobody (the "analyticalantibody"); and
25     (ii)     determining whether said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based
                drug) is bound by said antibody in said immunoassay.
            Again, as mentioned herein, an ISV as described herein may in particular either be a
   Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH domain or that
   comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
30          Also, any protein or polypeptide that comprises an ISV (such as an ISV-based drug)
   preferably has said (or at least one) such ISV at its C-terminal end. Again, said ISV may in

                                                    19
   particular either be a Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH
   domain or that comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
           In an alternative embodiment, which is also further described herein, instead of the
   aforementioned antibody obtained from a human subject, the monoclonal antibody referred to
 5 herein as "21-4-3" (or "21-4" for short, see SEQ ID NO's 35 and 36 for the VH and VL
   sequences) may be used. 21-4 was generated using hybridoma technology starting from a
   mouse immunized with the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID NO:98 in WO 2006/122825, as
   further described in Example 7, and a hybridoma cell line (called "ABHOO 15") expressing
   21-4 has been deposited on June 4, 2012 with the BCCM, Ghent, Belgium, under accession
10 number LMBP-9680-CB. Monoclonal 21-4 has been shown to recognize the C-terminus the
   Nanobody construct of SEQ ID NO:98 in WO 2006/122825, which C-terminal end consists
   of a Nanobody (humanized VHH) raised against Von Willebrand Factor (vWF). 21-4 was
   originally raised as analytical reagent for use in detecting the protein Nanobodies (n
   particular, the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID NO:98 in WO 2006/122825) in (serum)
15 samples; surprisingly, it has now been found that 21-4 can also be used in order to predict
   whether an ISV has a tendency to undergo aspecific protein interference (more so than some
   other, comparable (mouse) monoclonals raised against the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID
   NO:98 in WO 2006/122825 or against other Nanobodies).
           In particular, it has been found that if measuring the binding of 21-4 to an ISV (or to
20 protein or polypeptide containing an ISV at its C-terminal end, or similar protein or
   polypeptide as mentioned herein) gives an RU value of less than 500 (after adjusting the
   measured RU value for the molecular weight to the protein, according to the formula [RU
   measured]/[MW of the protein] x 106) when determined according to the protocol set out in
   Example 9, that said ISV or protein will likely not have a tendency to undergo protein
25 interference (within the confidence provided by the data set out in the Examples below). For
   the purposes of the above formula, MW may be calculated as the sum of all the MW's of all
   the amino acid residues present in the ISV.
           Accordingly, any ISV, protein or polypeptide described herein preferably has such an
   RU value for binding by 21-4 of less than 500 (determined according to the protocol set out
30 in Example 9, and after adjusting the measured RU value for the molecular weight of the ISV
   or protein used according to the formula set out above).
           Thus, this aspect of the invention generally relates to a method that can be used to
   predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give

                                                    20
   rise to (or has high or increased tendency to give rise to) protein interference (as further
   described herein) in an immunoassay (i.e. after said ISV has been administered to a subject, a
   sample of a biological fluid has been obtained from said subject, and said biological fluid is
   subjected to an immunoassay as further described herein), said method comprising
 5 performing an immunoassay that at least comprises the steps of:
        (i)      contacting said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) with
                 the monoclonal antibody 21-4 (i.e. used as the "analytical antibody"); and
        (ii)     determining whether said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based
                 drug) is bound by the monoclonal antibody 21-4 in said immunoassay.
10           Said method may in particular be performed using BiaCore or a similar technique, and
   more in particular using the protocol set out in Example 9. As mentioned herein, when the
   binding of the ISV or ISV-based drug in this protocol shows an RU value of less than 500
   (after adjusting the measured RU value for the molecular weight to the protein, according to
   the formula [RU measured]/[MW of the protein] x 106), said ISV or ISV-based protein will
15 likely not be bound by any interference factor(s) present in the blood or serum of a human
   being and/or will likely not have a tendency to undergo aspecific protein interference in an
   ADA assay (i.e. within the degrees of confidence set out in the experimental part below).
             Again, as mentioned herein, an ISV as described herein may in particular either be a
   Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH domain or that
20 comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
             Also, any protein or polypeptide that comprises an ISV (such as an ISV-based drug)
   preferably has said (or at least one) such ISV at its C-terminal end. Again, said ISV may in
   particular either be a Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH
   domain or that comprises a VH domain; and is preferably a Nanobody.
25           As also mentioned herein, the above method using 21-4 can also be used to determine
   whether an ISV or protein or polypeptide that comprises a ISV is bound by (or has a tendency
   to be bound by) interference factor(s) that are present in the blood or serum of a human being.
             Also, as mentioned herein, it is envisaged that said method using 21-4 can also be
   used to predict whether any protein or polypeptide (such as an antibody fragment or ScFv)
30 that has a VH domain at its C-terminal end will bound by (or has a tendency to be bound by)
   interference factor(s) that are present in the blood or serum of a human being and/or has a
   tendency to undergo protein interference in an ADA assay.

                                                     21
            In addition to 21-4, it is envisaged that an antibody or antibody fragment (such as a
   suitable Fab fragment) that contains the heavy chain and light chain variable domains of 21-4
   (see SEQ ID NO's: 35 and 36, respectively) or even only the CDR sequences of 21-4
   (suitably grafted into other suitable VH and VK frameworks) may also be used in the
 5 methods described herein.
            As further described herein, the invention can in particular be used to predict whether
   a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give rise to protein
   interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay that is an ADA assay. Said
   ADA assay may for example be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring ADA's against
10 ISV's generally, and may in particular be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring ADA's
   against the ISV used in steps (i) and (ii) above.
            In one particular preferred but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to
   predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give
   rise to protein interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay (and in particular,
15 in an ADA assay) that involves the use of such an ISV. Again, said ADA assay may for
   example be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring ADA's against ISV's generally, and
   may in particular be an ADA assay for detecting or measuring ADA's against the ISV used in
   steps (i) and (ii) above.
            In an even more particular but non-limiting aspect, the invention can be used to
20 predict whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) will give
   rise to protein interference (as further described herein) in an immunoassay (and in particular,
   in an ADA assay) that involves the use of such an ISV. For example, such an immunoassay
   may be an ADA assay (i.e. involving the ISV) that is performed to determine or measure
   whether any ADA's against said ISV are present in the sample that is tested, wherein said
25 sample is a sample of biological fluid (as described herein) that is obtained from a subject to
   which said ISV has been administered (as further described herein). For example, as further
   mentioned herein, said sample (i.e., the "test sample") may be a sample of (including whole
   blood, serum or plasma), ocular fluid, bronchoalveolar fluid/BALF, cerebrospinal fluid or
   any other suitable biological fluid, and may in particular be a biological sample that is
30 suitable for and/or intended for use in an immunological assay, such as an ADA assay.
            As further described herein, in all these aspects (and the further aspects of the
   invention described herein), the invention can also be used to select ISV's that are not or less
   prone to such protein interference in such immunoassays or ADA assays; as an assay or test

                                                     22
   that can be used to test whether certain modification(s) to an ISV will (fully or partially)
   reduce its tendency to give rise to such interference in such immunoassays or ADA assays;
   and/or as an assay or test that can be used to guide modification or improvement of an ISV so
   as to reduce its tendency to give rise to such protein interference in such immunoassays or
 5 ADA assays.
           As mentioned, step (i) of the method of the invention comprises contacting said ISV
   or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) with an antibody that has been
   obtained from a human subject and that has been selected/isolated based on its ability to
   recognize and/or bind to the C-terminal end of an ISV or Nanobody (as further described
10 herein). In said step (i) of the method described herein, "saidISV or Nanobody (orISV-based
   or Nanobody-baseddrug)" is used as the antigen in the immunoassay (i.e. as the substance to
   be detected). Also, in said step (i), the "antibody that has been obtainedfrom a human
   subject and that has been selected/isolatedbased on its ability to recognize and/or bind to the
   C-terminal end of an ISV or Nanobody" is used as the analytical reagent (i.e. in the same way
15 as other antibodies are used in immunoassays to detect the presence of an antigen to which
   they are directed).
           As already mentioned, and in order to better understand the invention described
   herein, it should be noted that, in step (i), the ISV will usually be used as the "antigen" (i.e.,
   as the compound to be detected), and the "analytical antibody" will be used as the analytical
20 agent (i.e., as a means to detect whether a given ISV binds or not, respectively; and thus has a
   high or increased risk of giving rise to protein interference or not, respectively). For example,
   when step (i) is performed in an ELISA format, the "antibody/analytical agent" will usually
   be bound to the carrier (i.e., to the ELISA plate) and the ISV will be (present in) the sample
   to be tested.
25         By contrast, it should be noted that in ADA assays for detecting or measuring ADA's
   against an ISV, the ISV is used as the "analytical agent" (i.e., as the compound used to detect
   whether any ADA's are present), and the ADA's are the "antigen" (i.e., the compound to be
   detected). Thus, in these assays, the ISV will usually/often be bound to the carrier (such as
   the ELISA plate), whereas the ADA's (if any) will be present in the sample that is subjected
30 to the assay.
           However, as already mentioned, it should generally be noted that the invention is not
   limited to assays in which the "analytical antibody" is bound to the carrier. For example, in
   an alternative way of performing an assay according to the invention (as shown in Example

                                                    23
   5), the analytical antibody is instead used as a bridging agent and thus will be in solution
   rather than bound to the plate (although it is indirectly bound to the plate via the ISV that is
   coated on the plate). However, also in the specific (bridging) assay described in Example 5
   (which is a competitive assay) the analytical antibody is still used as the analytical agent (i.e.,
 5 to determine whether the ISV of interest binds or not, respectively; and thus has a high or
   increased risk of giving rise to protein interference or not, respectively). It is also envisaged
   that, based on the further disclosure herein, the skilled person will be able to design other
   assay formats in which the analytical antibody can be used as an analytical agent in order to
   determine whether a given ISV can bind or not, respectively; and thus has a high or increased
10 risk of giving rise to protein interference or not).
            The "analytical antibody" used in step (i) may be a polyclonal or monoclonal
   antibody.
            When the analytical antibody is a polyclonal antibody, it may for example be a
   polyclonal antibody (preparation) that has been obtained/purified/isolated from a biological
15 sample obtained of a human subject (such as blood, plasma, B-cells or another suitable
   biological sample or fluid from which polyclonal antibodies can be suitably isolated). This
   may for example be a suitable biological sample that has been obtained of a human subject to
   which at least one ISV (such as the ISV used in step (i), but this is not required or essential)
   has been administered, but may also be (and preferably is) a suitable biological sample from a
20 human subject which has never received or been treated with an ISV. What is more important
   is that the polyclonal antibody has been obtained from said biological sample by a method
   that involves at least one affinity step using an affinity matrix or column that carries an ISV
   as the affinity moiety (and one or more further steps for obtaining/purifying/isolating
   polyclonal antibodies known per se). For example, the polyclonal antibody may have been
25 obtained from such a biological sample by means of affinity chromatography using an
   affinity column that carries an ISV, as for example described in Example 2. This may for
   example be performed using well known techniques for immunoaffinity chromatography for
   isolating antibodies from a biological sample, using an affinity matrix that carries an ISV as
   the antigen. Such techniques are generally known in the art and suitable examples thereof
30 will be clear to the skilled person based on the disclosure herein.
            Such a polyclonal antibody (preparation) may in particular be an IgG (or IgG
   fraction).

                                                   24
            For example, it may be a polyclonal antibody that has been obtained means of a
   method that involves (immuno)affinity chromatography, performed on a sample of biological
   fluid obtained from a human subject, using as the antigen bound to the affinity matrix an ISV
   (and in particular a Nanobody, such as a VHH, humanized and/or sequence-optimized VHH
 5 or a camelized VH, such as a camelized human VH) that does not contain a C-terminal tag
   (i.e., of which the C-terminus ends with the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33)).
   In particular, the ISV used as the antigen bound to the affinity matrix may be a humanized or
   sequence-optimized VHH (or alternatively a corresponding camelized human VH) of which
   the C-terminus ends with the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33). In one specific,
10 but non-limiting aspect, the ISV used as the antigen bound to the affinity matrix may be a
   humanized or sequence-optimized VHH that, as a result of such humanization or sequence
   optimization, comprises a proline (P) residue at position 14 where the corresponding "naive"
   VHH comprises an alanine (A) at position 14 (in other words, the ISV used as the antigen is a
   humanized version of a VHH that naturally comprises an alanine at position 14, which
15 alanine residue, as a result of the humanization and/or sequence optimization, has been
   replaced with a proline (P) residue). The ISV used as the antigen may also comprise one or
   more other amino acid substitutions as a result of such humanization or sequence
   optimization, for example generally described in WO 08/020079 or WO 09/138519.
            Some specific examples of ISVs that can be used as the antigen to generate/isolate the
20 "analytical antibody" used in the invention are given in SEQ ID NO's: 1 and 2.
            Again, the method used to obtain the polyclonal antibody may, in addition to the
   (immune)affinity steps, also comprise one or more further steps for isolating/purifying a
   polyclonal antibody from the biological sample (performed either before or after the affinity
   steps). Again, such steps and techniques for performing them will be clear to the skilled
25 person.
            Thus, in one aspect, the invention comprises a method as further described herein that
   comprises steps (i) and (ii) described herein, in which the "analytical antibody" (i.e., the
   antibody that has been obtained from a human subject and that has been selected/isolated
   based on its ability to recognize and/or bind to the C-terminal end of an ISV or Nanobody)
30 has been obtained from a biological sample obtained from a human subject (wherein said
   biological sample is a sample that is suitable for use in a method for generating/isolating an
   antibody from said sample) using a method that comprises at least one affinity step (such as a
   step of affinity chromatography, such as immunoaffinity chromatography) in which an ISV

                                                    25
    (and preferably a Nanobody) is used as an antigen, and preferably an ISV is used as an
    antigen that comprises the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) as the C-terminal
    sequence, and more preferably a humanized and/or sequence optimized Nanobody is used as
   the antigen that comprises the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) as the C
 5 terminal sequence, and even more preferably a humanized and/or sequence optimized
   Nanobody is used as the antigen that comprises the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID
   NO:33) as the C-terminal sequence and that comprises a proline residue at position 14, such
   as a Nanobody that comprises the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) as the C
   terminal sequence and that comprises a proline residue at position 14 that has been introduced
10 into the Nanobody as a result of said humanization and/or sequence-optimization (for
   example, to replace an alanine residue that naturally occurs at said position in the VHH that
   has been humanized and/or sequence optimized).
            The above ISV's can also be used in methods to isolate monoclonal antibodies (again
   starting from a suitable biological sample obtained from a human being) that are suitable for
15 use in the invention as the "analytical antibody".
            For example, such a monoclonal antibody may be obtained starting from blood, B
   cells or another suitable sample or material for isolating antibodies, may be selected based on
   its ability to recognize and/or bind to (the C-terminal end of) an ISV or Nanobody (in which,
   again, the ISV(s) used as the antigen during screening and/or selection is preferably as
20 described in the preceding paragraphs, including the preferences stated for such ISV/antigen).
   Such screening and selection may be performed in any suitable manner, for example by using
   B-cell selection and/or expansion techniques essentially the same or suitably similar to the B
   cell selection techniques described in EP 0 488 470, WO 92/02551, EP 1 633 787, WO
   01/55216, WO 02/26829, WO 04/051268, WO 04/102198 or WO 04/106377 or techniques
25 similar to the Nanoclone technique described in WO 06/079372 (but using human B-cells
   rather than camelid B-cells).
            Once one or more B-cells have been identified/isolated that express a suitable
   antibody, said antibody may be isolated, expressed and/or produced in any suitable manner.
   For example, said B-cell(s) may be immortalized as hybridomas producing the desired
30 antibody/antibodies (using techniques well known per se for generating hybridomas starting
   from selected B-cells), and said antibody/antibodies may then be isolated from (the culture
   supernatant of) said hybridoma(s), again using suitable techniques well established in the art

                                                   26
   and described in various handbooks and manuals, and also described and/or referred to in the
   patent publications mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
           Alternatively, said B-cell(s) may be expanded using B-cell expansion techniques
   known per se, and the antibody/antibodies may be isolated from (the culture supernatant of)
 5 said expanded B-cell(s). Again, this may be performed using suitable techniques well
   established in the art and described in various handbooks and manuals, and also described
   and/or referred to in the patent publications mentioned in the preceding paragraphs.
           In yet another alternative, DNA encoding the antibody/antibodies of interest may be
   obtained (e.g., by amplification) from said B-cell(s) or other suitable cells, either directly (for
10 example using suitable single-cell PCR cloning techniques) or after suitable expansion of the
   desired B-cell(s). Said DNA may then be suitably expressed in a suitable host cell or host
   organism to provide the desired antibody/antibodies. Again, this may be performed using
   suitable techniques well established in the art and described in various handbooks and
   manuals, and also described and/or referred to in the patent publications mentioned in the
15 preceding paragraphs.
           It is also possible to generate monoclonal antibodies that are suitable for use as the
   "analytical antibody" by a method that involves repertoire cloning (starting from a suitable
   sample obtained from a human subject) and screening the cloned repertoire for antibodies
   that bind to the ISV used as antigen (in which, again, the ISV(s) used as the antigen during
20 screening and/or selection is preferably as described in the preceding paragraphs, including
   the preferences stated for such ISV/antigen). Methods for repertoire cloning and various
   techniques for displaying cloned repertoires for selection and screening (such as phage
   display, ribosome display and yeast display) will be clear to the skilled person, and are for
   example described in EP 0 589877, EP 0 774 511, WO 90/14430 and EP 0368 684) as well as
25 various handbooks on the subject.
           Generally, the biological sample that is used as a starting point for obtaining the
   (polyclonal or monoclonal) analytical antibody may be any suitable sample (i.e. suitable as a
   starting material for obtaining a polyclonal or monoclonal antibody, respectively) obtained
   from any suitable human subject. In one specific but non-limiting aspect, such a sample may
30 for example have been obtained from a woman, and in particular a post-menopausal woman.
   Thus, in one specific but non-limiting aspect, the analytical antibody used in steps (i) and (ii)
   above has been obtained starting from a biological sample that has been obtained/derived

                                                      27
    from a post-menopausal woman (or has been derived from an antibody that has been
    obtained/derived from a post-menopausal woman).
            Also, the biological sample that is used as a starting point for obtaining the
    (polyclonal or monoclonal) analytical antibody may be obtained from a subject to whom an
 5  ISV has previously been administered (for example, as part of a clinical trial or
   therapeutically), but is preferably obtained from a subject to whom no ISV has previously
   been administered.
            However, it should be noted that the invention is not particularly limited to the source
    of the analytical antibody/antibodies used, and it has proven possible in some cases, using the
10 techniques described herein, to obtain (generate, isolate) other suitable analytical antibodies
    from other sources, including commercially available human blood or plasma (and even
   blood, plasma or B-cells from other species of mammals or primates, such as from baboon or
   cynomolgus monkey).
            As mentioned above, the (polyclonal or monoclonal) analytical antibody used in steps
15  (i) and (ii) should be such that it is capable of recognizing or binding to the C-terminal end of
   an ISV or Nanobody, and is most preferably selected and/or isolated based on this ability to
   bind to the C-terminal end of an ISV or Nanobody.
            As can be seen from Figure 2, when the ISV is based on or derived from a VH or
   VHH domain, the C-terminal end of an ISV comprises the amino acid sequence VTVSS
20 (SEQ ID NO:33), and accordingly the analytical antibody should be capable of recognizing
   any ISV that has the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) at its C-terminal end. As
   can be further seen from Figure 2, (at least some of the amino acid residues in) the sequence
   VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) is part of a putative epitope on the ISV that also includes, among
   other residues, the amino acid residue at position 14 (and the amino acid residues next/close
25 to the same in the amino acid sequence, such as positions 11, 13 and 15) and may also
   comprise the amino acid residue at position 83 (and the amino acid residues next/close to the
   same in the amino acid sequence, such as positions 82, 82a, 82b and 84) and/or the amino
   acid residue at position 108 (and the amino acid residues next/close to the same in the amino
   acid sequence, such as positions 107. Position 109 is the first V of the C-terminal VTVSS
30 (SEQ ID NO:33) sequence and it has been shown that for example position 110 may have an
   influence on protein interference as well). This is also collectively referred to herein as the
   "C-terminalregion", it being understood that this C-terminal region at least comprises the C
   terminal sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and the amino acid residue at position 14, and

                                                     28
   may also comprise the amino acid residues at positions 83 and 108, and possibly also the
   amino acid residues at positions 13, 15, 82b, 83, 84 and 107.
           As already mentioned, and again without being limited to any hypothesis or
   explanation, in a full-sized 4-chain monoclonal antibody, or in a full-sized heavy chain only
 5 antibody such as those present in Camelidae, the C-terminal end of a VH or VHH domain is
   linked to the rest of the antibody - i.e. to the CH1 region in conventional monoclonals or to
   the hinge region in Camelidae heavy chain antibodies, respectively - and thus in such full
   sized antibodies may be shielded from such protein interference) and/or covered by the
   VH/VL interaction (in conventional 4-chain antibodies) so that this "C-terminal region" and
10 is therefore usually not solvent-exposed and/or accessible as an interaction site for proteins
   that are present in the blood, serum or body of a person to which such an ISV is administered.
   However, if an ISV or Nanobody is used per se (i.e. without being linked to any other part of
   an antibody), or if an ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is used that carries an ISV or
   Nanobody at its C-terminal end, this C-terninal epitope is available for (aspecific) interaction
15 with other proteins, and again without being limited to any hypothesis or explanation, it is
   assumed that this C-terminal region may now be accessible to undergo an (aspecific) protein
   interaction with one or more proteins that are pre-existing in the "test sample" (for example,
   one or more IgG's) to be tested and that this may cause protein interference and/or aspecific
   signals in the immunoassays (and in particular in ADA assays).
20         As mentioned, the methods described herein can be used to predict, reduce or avoid
   such protein interaction, and can also be used as a tool to guide modification to the ISV,
   Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug so as to provide the same with a
   (partially or preferably essentially fully) reduced tendency to give rise to such protein
   interference.
25         As will be clear from the preceding paragraph, and again without being limited to any
   hypothesis or explanation, it is in particular expected (and part of the teaching of the present
   invention) that (certain) modifications to the "C-terminal region" will alter (and preferably
   reduce) the tendency of an ISV to undergo such aspecific protein interaction, and this is also
   what is observed experimentally (see for example the experimental results presented in
30 Examples IC and 3 below).
           Based on this, and again without being limited to any hypothesis or explanation, the
   present invention also teaches certain modifications that can be introduced for this purpose in
   the C-terminal region of an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug (of

                                                   29
   which the (potential) effectiveness can be tested using the methods described herein). Also,
   based on the teaching herein, it is envisaged that the skilled person will be able to choose,
   design or propose other (candidate) modifications to the C-terminal region that could be
   introduced for this purpose (and of which the (potential) effectiveness can again be tested
 5 using the methods described herein).
           Returning to the analytical antibody used in the invention, this is preferably a
   (polyclonal or monoclonal) antibody that recognizes the C-terminal region (as defined above)
   of an ISV, and in particular but without limitation the C-terminal region of a Nanobody.
           For example, in one specific but non-limiting aspect, the "analytical antibody" may be
10 a polyclonal or monoclonal that recognizes (and/or is capable of binding to, and in particular
   of specific binding to) the C-terminal region of an ISV or Nanobody of which the C-terminal
   end of the sequence ends with VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33), but does not recognize (and/or is
   not capable of specific binding to) the C-terminal region of an ISV or Nanobody (which may
   be a different ISV but is preferably the same ISV) when there are one or more further amino
15 acid residues (such as 1 to 5 amino acid residues, or alternatively a small peptide sequence or
   even another polypeptide or protein) linked to the C-terminal VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33).
           In another, more specific but still non-limiting aspect, the "analytical antibody" may
   be a polyclonal or monoclonal that recognizes (and/or is capable of binding to, and in
   particular of specific binding to) the C-terminal region of an ISV or Nanobody of which the
20 C-terminal end of the sequence ends with VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and in which position 14
   is an amino acid that does not naturally occur at position 14 and/or has been modified
   compared to the amino acid that naturally occurs at position 14 (for example as a result of
   humanization, camelization and/or sequence optimization), but that does not recognize
   (and/or is not capable of specific binding to) the C-terminal region of an ISV or Nanobody
25 (which may be a different ISV but is preferably the same ISV) in which there are one or more
   farther amino acid residues (such as 1 to 5 amino acid residues, or alternatively a small
   peptide sequence or even another polypeptide or protein) linked to the C-terminal VTVSS
   (SEQ ID NO:33); and/or in which position 14 is an amino acid that naturally occurs at
   position 14 (for example alanine or, when the ISV naturally contains a proline at position 14,
30 proline).
           For example, the "analytical antibody" may also be a polyclonal or monoclonal that
   recognizes (and/or is capable of binding to, and in particular of specific binding to) the C
   terminal region of an ISV or Nanobody of which the C-terminal end of the sequence ends

                                                   30
   with VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and in which position 14 is proline (and in particular when
   position 14 has been modified to proline, for example as a result of humanization,
   camelization and/or sequence optimization), but does not recognize the C-terminal region of
   an ISV or Nanobody (which may be a different ISV but is preferably the same ISV) in which
 5 there are one or more further amino acid residues (such as 1 to 5 amino acid residues, or
   alternatively a small peptide sequence or even another polypeptide or protein) linked to the
   C-terminal VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33); and/or in which position 14 is alanine.
           The "analytical antibody" may also be a polyclonal or monoclonal that recognizes
   (and/or is capable of binding to, and in particular of specific binding to) the C-terminal region
10 of an ISV or Nanobody of which the C-terminal end of the sequence ends with VTVSS (SEQ
   ID NO:33) and in which position 14 is proline (in particular where a proline residue naturally
   occurs at said position in said ISV), but does not recognize the C-terminal region of an ISV or
   Nanobody (which may be a different ISV but is preferably the same ISV) in which there are
   one or more further amino acid residues (such as 1 to 5 amino acid residues, or alternatively a
15 small peptide sequence or even another polypeptide or protein) linked to the C-terminal
   VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) in which position 14 is still a (naturally occurring or unmodified)
   proline.
            The "analytical antibody" may also for example be a polyclonal or monoclonal that
   recognizes (the C-terminal region of) the sequence of the ISV called "Nb 3.4" herein (SEQ
20 ID NO: 5) but does not recognize (the C-terminal region of) the sequence of the ISV called
   "Nb 3.1" herein (SEQ ID NO: 3) and/or (and preferably and) does not recognize the sequence
   of the ISV called "Nb 3.2" herein (SEQ ID NO: 4).
           For the above purpose, whether an "analytical antibody" does (or does not) recognize
   an ISV or Nanobody (and/or is or is not capable of (specifically) binding to an ISV or
25 Nanobody) can be determined using any suitable binding assay (such as Biacore), but may
   also be determined using either the BIACORE assay described in example 3 or an ADA
   assay such as the ADA bridging/competition assay described in Example 5 (See also Figure
    1A to IC and in particular Figure 1B).
            Suitable formats/techniques for performing such an assay will be clear to the skilled
30 person based on the disclosure herein, and for example include (without limitation):
   -   A colorimetric assay such as ELISA with analytical antibody coated directly or indirectly
       to the plate and detection of bound ISV with monoclonal or polyclonal anti-ISV antibody.

                                                   31
       Other useful alternative technologies for this setup include but are not limited to
       electrochemiluminescence (the MSD platform), Fluorescence (DELFIA, GYROS), and
       other methods that rely on secondary detection of the bound ISV.
   -   A Surface Plasmon Resonance (such as BIACORE) or other real-time biosensor method
 5     (i.e. other than using SPR) with directly or indirectly immobilized analytical antibody and
       monitoring the binding of subsequently injected/administered ISV. These methods do not
       need further detection of the bound ISV. A representative method for performing this type
       is assay is described in Example 3.
   -   Analyzing the competitive behavior of the ISV in a bridging assay (ADA assay) using the
10     analytical antibody instead of ADA containing biological fluid. For the bridging assay
       one can make use of different technologies such as ELISA, the MSD platform.
       Representative methods for performing this type are schematically shown in Figures 1A
       to 1C and one specific example of this kind of assay is also described in Example 5.
   -   Any chromatographic method in which the analytical antibody is immobilized on the
15     chromatographic matrix and specific capturing/isolation of ISV from a solution.
            Once a suitable analytical antibody has been obtained using one of the methods
   described herein or in one of the examples (or a method essentially equivalent to the same),
   said analytical antibody can be used to determine whether a given ISV or Nanobody (or ISV
   based or Nanobody-based drug) will give rise to (or has high or increased tendency to give
20 rise to) protein interference (as defined herein), i.e. by performing steps (i) and (ii) described
   above. As already described herein, this generally involves contacting said ISV, Nanobody,
   ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug with the analytical antibody and determining
   whether said ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is recognized by
   (and/or is bound by, and in particular specifically bound by) said analytical antibody (and in
25 particular whether the C-terminal region of said ISV or Nanobody or of any ISV or
   Nanobody that forms the C-terminal end of said ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is
   recognized by said analytical antibody).
            This can generally be performed using any suitable technique for determining whether
   an antigen (in the case, the ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug) is
30 bound by an antibody, and suitable (immune)assay techniques will be clear to the skilled
   person. Some non-limiting examples are suitable ELISA techniques (including for example
   sandwich ELISA's); in which, depending on the ELISA format used (as will be clear to the

                                                    32
   skilled person), either the analytical antibody or the ISV may be coated on the plate and
   either the analytical antibody or the ISV may be detectably labeled. Other techniques may for
   example involve the use of a BlAcore instrument (in which again either the analytical
   antibody or the ISV may be coated on the chip, see for example Example 3). Another
 5 alternative may be a competitive bridging assay (as for example exemplified in Example 5),
   in which the ability is tested of the ISV to compete with another ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based
   drug or Nanobody-based drug that is known to be bound by the analytical antibody (or visa
   versa). These and other suitable techniques for determining whether a given ISV, Nanobody,
   ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is (specifically) bound or recognized by the
10 analytical antibody will be clear to the skilled person based on the disclosure herein.
           It will also be clear, based on the disclosure herein, that the present invention (and in
   particular the analytical antibody used in the present invention) can be used to determine
   whether or not a given ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug contains an
   interaction site (such as an interaction site present at or within the C-terminal region, and/or
15 of which the C-terminal region forms part) that is capable of undergoing an (aspecific)
   protein interaction with one or more proteins or other components that may be present in a
   biological sample (i.e., a "test sample") obtained from a subject that is to be subjected to an
   immunoassay such as an ADA assay (in particular, an ADA assay for determining the
   presence of any ADA's against the ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based
20 drug). Thus, when an ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is recognized
   by the analytical antibody used in the invention, it is very likely that said ISV, Nanobody,
   ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug contains such an (accessible or exposed) interaction
   site, and thus will have a tendency to give rise to such protein interference (as defined herein)
   when it is used in such an immunoassay or ADA assay for testing the test sample. As will be
25 clear to the skilled person, this is something that should preferably be avoided, either by
   selecting/using another ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug if possible,
   or by modifying the ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based such that its
   tendency to such protein interference will be substantially reduced or essentially removed
   (again, this can be tested using the method and analytical antibody disclosed herein).
30         As will also be clear to the skilled person based on the disclosure herein, such a
   modification may for example comprise making one or more modifications (such as amino
   acid insertions, additions, deletions or substitutions) to the interaction site on the ISV,
   Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug, such that its ability to undergo an

                                                     33
   (aspecific) protein interaction with one or more proteins or other components that may be
   present in a test sample will be reduced or removed. Again, this can be performed by limited
   trial and error by introducing one or more modifications and then testing whether this ability
   has been reduced or not, again using the method and analytical antibody disclosed herein. For
 5 example, one or more such modifications may be introduced, and then the ability of the
   modified ISV to bind to the analytical antibody may be compared to that of the
   original/unmodified ISV. Alternatively, using a competitive bridging format (as for example
   exemplified in Example 5), or using BlAcore (see for example Example 3), the ability of the
   modified ISV to (still) compete with the original ISV for binding to the analytical antibody
10 may be determined.
            Again, and although the invention is not limited to any hypothesis or explanation,
   based on the experimental evidence that is set out in the examples below, the inventors have
   found that this interaction site is likely located at/near the C-terminal region (as defined
   herein) or that said interaction site forms part of the C-terminal region (or that the C-terminal
15 region forms part of this interaction site). This is for example based at least in part on the
   observation that, if an ISV has a tendency to give rise to such protein interference and has
   VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) as the amino acid residues at its C-terminal end, that attaching
   either a limited number of amino acid residues (such as 1 to 10, for example 1 to 5, such as 1,
   2, 3, 4 or 5), or alternatively a tag or another peptide, protein or other moiety to this C
20 terminal end will usually substantially reduce or essentially remove said tendency. In some
   cases, it has been found that even adding 1, 2 or 3 amino acid residues to the C-terminal
   VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) (which maybe any suitable amino acid(s) or combination of amino
   acids, which may each be independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acids
   such as those listed in Table A-2 on page 64 of WO 09/138519, for example and without
25 limitation from alanine, glycine, valine, leucine or isoleucine) may already substantially
   reduce or essentially remove said tendency. This is also in part based on the observation that
   in some cases, where a VHH naturally contains an alanine residue at position 14 (which as
   mentioned forms part of the C-terminal region; see Figure 2), the naturally occurring VHH
   often does not have (or has a low) tendency to give rise to such protein interference, whereas
30  a corresponding VHH in which said alanine at positionl4 has been replaced with a proline
   residue (for example, for the purposes of humanization or sequence-optimization) can as a
   result have an increased tendency to give rise to such protein interference (i.e. compared to
   the VHH with alanine at position 14).

                                                      34
             In one aspect, the invention relates to a VHH, a Nanobody (as defined herein, and in
   particular a humanized VHH or a camelized VH, such as a camelized human VH) or another
   ISV (or ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug with a VHH, Nanobody or other ISV at its
   C-terminal end) that has been modified (for example, by introducing one or more amino acid
 5 substitutions, additions or deletions), and in particular modified in the C-terminal regions
   (such as by one or more amino acid substitutions or additions in the C-terminal region), such
   that (i) it has a substantially reduced tendency (such as at least a statistically relevant reduced
   tendency) to give rise to protein interference (as defined herein); and/or such that (ii) it has, in
   the method of the invention described herein (such as in the specific assay described in
10 Example 3 or 5), substantially reduced ability to be bound by an analytical antibody as
   described herein (such as the polyclonal antibody described in Example 2 and used in
   Examples 3 and 5), in both cases preferably compared to the same VHH, Nanobody or ISV
   but without the modifications.
             Thus, in one aspect, the invention relates to a VHH, a Nanobody (as defined herein,
15 and in particular a humanized VHH or a camelized VH, such as a camelized human VH) or
   another ISV (or ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug with a VHH, Nanobody or other
   ISV at its C-terminal end) that is a VHH or VH domain (i.e. an ISV that is a VH domain or
   derived from a VH domain) and/or that has been based on or has been derived from (the
   amino acid sequence of) a VHH or VH domain, which VHH, Nanobody or ISV comprises
20 the amino acid sequence VTVSS(X), (SEQ ID NO:34) at its C-terminal end, in which n is 1
   to 10, preferably 1 to 5, such as 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 (and preferably 1 or 2, such as 1), and in which
   each X is an (preferably naturally occurring) amino acid residue that is independently chosen
   (and preferably independently chosen from the group consisting of alanine (A), glycine (G),
   valine (V), leucine (L) or isoleucine (I); however, as can be seen from the data presented
25 below, other (preferably naturally occurring) amino acid residues or combinations of the
   aforementioned preferred amino acid residues with other amino acid residues (such as serine,
   proline, threonine and/or lysine) may also be used). Preferably, said VHH, Nanobody or ISV
   with the amino acid sequence VTVSS(X), (SEQ ID NO:34) at its C-terminal end is such that
   (i) it has a substantially reduced tendency (such as at least a statistically relevant reduced
30 tendency) to give rise to protein interference (as defined herein); and/or such that (ii) it has, in
   the method of the invention described herein (such as in the specific assay described in
   Example 3 or 5), substantially reduced ability to be bound by an analytical antibody as
   described herein (such as the polyclonal antibody described in Example 2), in both cases

                                                   35
   preferably compared to the same VHH, Nanobody or ISV but with the amino acid sequence
   VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) at its C-terminal end. Reference is for example made to the assay
   and data presented in Example 3.
           The aforementioned VHH's, Nanobodies or (other) ISVs are preferably such that they
 5 have an RU value for binding by 21-4 of less than 500 (determined according to the protocol
   set out in Example 9, and after adjusting the measured RU value for the molecu It should
   also be noted that, any time that reference is made in the description herein or in the claims to
   any C-terminal sequence VTVSS(X)n (including any of the aspects (a) to (p) above, that
   according to one specific aspect of the invention, none of the amino acids X is a cysteine
10 residue.
           For example, in some preferred aspects, the C-terminal end of the ISV or ISV
   containing construct (when this C-terminal end is a VH-derived ISV, VHH or Nanobody)
   may be:
   (a) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 1 and X = Ala;
15 (b) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and each X = Ala;
   (c) VTVSS(X),, in which n = 3 and each X = Ala;
   (d) VTVSS(X),, in which n = 2 and at least one X = Ala (with the remaining amino acid
       residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but
       preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
20 (e) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least one X = Ala (with the remaining amino acid
       residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but
       preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
   (f) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least two X = Ala (with the remaining amino acid
       residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but
25     preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
   (g) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 1 and X = Gly;
   (h) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and each X = Gly;
   (i) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and each X = Gly;
   (j) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and at least one X = Gly (with the remaining amino acid
30     residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but
       preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);

                                                       36
    (k) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least one X = Gly (with the remaining amino acid
        residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but
        preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
    (1) VTVSS(X),, in which n = 3 and at least two X = Gly (with the remaining amino acid
 5      residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but
        preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
    (m)VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and each X = Ala or Gly;
    (n) VTVSS(X)., in which n = 3 and each X = Ala or Gly;
    (o) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least one X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino
10      acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
        but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile); or
    (p) VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least two X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino
        acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
        but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
15 with aspects (a), (b), (c), (g), (h), (i), (m) and (n) being particularly preferred, with aspects in
   which n =1 or 2 being preferred and aspects in which n = 1 being particularly preferred.
            It should also be noted that, any time that reference is made in the description herein
   or in the claims to any C-terminal sequence VTVSS(X)n (including any of the aspects (a) to
   (p) above, that according to one specific aspect of the invention, none of the amino acids X is
20 a cysteine residue.
            Thus, in one preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single
   variable domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH
   sequence or is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a
   C-terminal end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 1 and X = Ala (or a protein or
25 polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
   end).
            In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
30 end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and each X = Ala (or a protein or
   polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
   end).

                                                    37
            In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and at least one X = Ala (with the remaining
 5 amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
   but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein or
   polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
   end).
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
10 domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X),, in which n = 3 and at least one X = Ala (with the remaining
   amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
   but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein or
15 polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
   end).
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
20 end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least two X = Ala (with the remaining
   amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
   but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein or
   polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
   end).
25         In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and each X = Ala (or a protein or
   polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
30 end).
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal

                                                      38
     end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 1 and X = Gly (or a protein or polypeptide
     which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal end).
              In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
     domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VIH sequence or
  5  is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
     end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and each X = Gly (or a protein or
    polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
     end).
              In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
10   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
    is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
     end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and each X = Gly (or a protein or
    polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
    end).
15           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
    domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
    is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
    end of the sequence VTVSS(X),, in which n = 2 and at least one X = Gly (with the remaining
    amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
20  but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein or
    polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
    end).
             In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
    domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
25  is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
    end of the sequence VTVSS(X)a, in which n = 3 and at least one X = Gly (with the remaining
    amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
    but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein or
    polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
30  end).
             In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
    domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
    is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal

                                                   39
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least two X = Gly (with the remaining
   amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid
   but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein or
   polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
 5 end).
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 2 and each X = Ala or Gly (or a protein or
10 polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-tenninal
   end).
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
15 end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and each X = Ala or Gly (or a protein or
   polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C-terminal
   end).
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an inmunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
20 is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 3 and at least one X = Ala or Gly (with the
   remaining amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring
   amino acid but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein
   or polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C
25 terminal end). or
           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X),I, in which n = 3 and at least two X = Ala or Gly (with the
30 remaining amino acid residue(s) X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring
   amino acid but preferably being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile) (or a protein
   or polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C
   terminal end).

                                                     40
             In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
    end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n = 1, 2 or 3 in which each X = Ala or Gly.
 5           In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which:
   -    n = 1, 2 or 3 in which each X = Ala or Gly; or
10 -    n = 2 or 3 in which all but one X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino acid residue X
        being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but preferably being
        independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile)
   or a protein or polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at
   its C-terminal end).
15          In another preferred aspect, the invention relates to an immunoglobulin single variable
   domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV that comprises a VH sequence or
   is derived from a VH sequence (with Nanobodies being preferred) which has a C-terminal
   end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which:
   -    n = 1, 2 or 3 in which each X = Ala or Gly; or
20 -    n = 2 or 3 in which at least one X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino acid residue X
        being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but preferably being
        independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
   -    n = 2 or 3 in which all but one X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino acid residue X
       being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but preferably being
25      independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
   or a protein or polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at
   its C-terminal end.
            In the above aspects, with said (other) "ISV that comprises a VH sequence or is
   derived from a VH sequence" is meant any ISV that comprises a VH sequence or that is
30 derived from a VH sequence and that is not a Nanobody (i.e. not a VHH, humanized VHH or
   camelized VH). For example, such (other) ISV may for example be a VH-based (single)
   domain antibody, VH-based dAb TM , or VH-based microbody (see WO 00/29004).

                                                    41
           Again, it should be noted that, any time that one of the ISV's referred to herein has a
   C-terminal sequence VTVSS(X)n (including without limitation in ISV's referred to in the
   preceding aspects) that according to one specific aspect of the invention, none of the amino
   acids X in the sequence VTVSS(X)n is a cysteine residue.
 5         As further described herein, any such protein or polypeptide may for example be a
   construct that contains two or more ISV's (such as two or more Nanobodies), optionally
   linked via one or more suitable linkers. Thus, for example, such a construct may be a
   bivalent, trivalent, tetravalent or pentavalent construct (such as a bivalent, trivalent,
   tetravalent or pentavalent Nanobody construct), and may for example be a bivalent, trivalent,
10 tetravalent or pentavalent construct (such as a bivalent, trivalent, tetravalent or pentavalent
   Nanobody construct) that is bispecific, trispecific or biparatopic construct (including for
   example monospecific, bispecific or biparatopic constructs that also can bind to serum
   albumin (preferred) or another serum protein for half-life extension).
            Again, the Nanobodies, ISVs and proteins/polypeptides according to each of the
15 aspects described above are preferably such that they have an RU value for binding by 21-4
   of less than 500 (determined according to the protocol set out in Example 9, and after
   adjusting the measured RU value for the molecular weight of the ISV or protein used
   according to the formula set out above).
            As mentioned herein, it is also envisaged that the invention may also be applied to
20 other proteins or polypeptides (and in particular antibody fragments such as Fab fragments or
   other proteins or polypeptides based on antibody fragments, such as ScFv's) that have a VH
   domain at their C-terminal end. Thus, in another aspect, the invention relates to such a
   protein or polypeptide (such as an ScFv) that has a VH domain at its C-terminal end with the
   amino acid sequence VTVSS(X), (SEQ ID NO:34) at its C-terminal end, in which n is 1 to
25 10, preferably 1 to 5, such as 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, and in which each X is an (preferably naturally
   occurring) amino acid residue that is independently chosen (and preferably independently
   chosen from the group consisting of alanine (A), glycine (G), valine (V), leucine (L) or
   isoleucine (I). Again, according to some specific aspects, said C-terminal end may be
   according to any of (a) to (p) above, and preferably according to one of (a), (b), (c), (g), (h),
30 (i), (m) or (n), with n being 1, 2 or 3 and preferably 1 or 2.
            Again, such proteins or polypeptides are preferably such that they have an RU value
   for binding by 21-4 of less than 500 (determined according to the protocol set out in Example
   9, and after adjusting the measured RU value for the molecular weight of the ISV or protein

                                                    42
   used according to the formula set out above). Also, again, according to one specific aspect of
   this aspect of the invention, none of the amino acids X in the C-terminal sequence
   VTVSS(X)n is a cysteine residue.
            The invention further relates to a pharmaceutical composition that comprises an ISV
 5 (and preferably a therapeutic ISV) or a protein or polypeptide comprising at least one ISV
   (and preferably at least one therapeutic ISV), wherein said ISV, protein or polypeptide is as
   further described herein (i.e. an ISV, protein or polypeptide according to one or more of the
   aspects described herein, and in particular according to one or more of the aspects described
   on the preceding pages; and more in particular an ISV, protein or polypeptide that has a C
10 terminal end/sequence that is according to one or more of the aspects described herein), and
   at least one suitable carrier, diluent or excipient (i.e. suitable for pharmaceutical use), and
   optionally one or more further active substances. Such compositions, carriers, diluents or
   excipients can for example be as described in WO 08/020079 for pharmaceutical
   compositions that comprise a Nanobody or a protein or polypeptide that comprises at least
15 one Nanobody (and as already mentioned, according to the present invention, the ISV is also
   preferably a Nanobody).
           The invention further relates to an ISV or a protein or polypeptide comprising at least
   one ISV for use in therapy of a disease in a human being (e.g. a patient in need of such
   therapy), wherein said ISV, protein or polypeptide is as further described herein (i.e. an ISV,
20 protein or polypeptide according to one or more of the aspects described herein, and in
   particular according to one or more of the aspects described on the preceding pages; and
   more in particular an ISV, protein or polypeptide that has a C-terminal end/sequence that is
   according to one or more of the aspects described herein).
           The invention further relates to the use of an ISV or a protein or polypeptide
25 comprising at least one ISV in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition, wherein said
   ISV, protein or polypeptide is as further described herein (i.e. an ISV, protein or polypeptide
   according to one or more of the aspects described herein, and in particular according to one
   or more of the aspects described on the preceding pages; and more in particular an ISV,
   protein or polypeptide that has a C-terminal end/sequence that is according to one or more of
30 the aspects described herein).
           The invention further relates to a method of treatment which comprises administering
   to a human subject (e.g to a patient in need of such treatment) an ISV or a protein or
   polypeptide comprising at least one ISV in the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition,

                                                     43
   wherein said ISV, protein or polypeptide is as further described herein (i.e. an ISV, protein or
   polypeptide according to one or more of the aspects described herein, and in particular
   according to one or more of the aspects described on the preceding pages; and more in
   particular an ISV, protein or polypeptide that has a C-terminal end/sequence that is according
 5 to one or more of the aspects described herein); or a pharmaceutical composition (as
   described above) that comprises at least one such ISV, protein or polypeptide.
            With respect to the above, it will be clear that the therapeutic use of the ISV's,
   proteins and polypeptides described herein are a very important aspect of the invention, as
   such therapeutic use (or the clinical development of such ISV's, proteins and polypeptides for
10 such therapeutic use) may involve the use of ADA assays to determine whether said ISV,
   protein or polypeptide is immunogenic (i.e. can give rise to ADA's when administered to a
   human subject). In this respect, it will also be clear that concerns about possible
   immunogenicity will in particular have to be addressed when a therapeutic is either used for
   longer periods of time (for during weeks, months or years), and/or has a half-life (preferably
15 expressed as t1/2-beta) in a human subject of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, and
   up to 10 days or more.
            Thus, according to one specific aspect of the invention, a ISV, protein, polypeptide or
   pharmaceutical composition as described herein is intended for treatment of a chronic disease
   in a human being, and/or such ISV, protein, polypeptide as described herein is intended to be
20 present in the circulation of the subject (i.e. at pharmacologically active levels) to which it is
   administered (i.e. at a therapeutically active dose) for at least a period of one week, preferably
   at least two weeks, such as at least a months; and/or such ISV, protein, polypeptide as
   described herein is such that it has a half-life (preferably expressed as tl/2-beta) in a human
   subject of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, and up to 10 days or more; and/or such
25 an ISV, protein, polypeptide or pharmaceutical composition as described herein is intended to
   be administered to a human being as two or more doses that are administered over a period of
   at least 3 days, such as at least one week, for example at least two weeks or at least one
   month, or even longer (i.e. at least 3 months, at least 6 months or at least one year), or even
   chronically administered.
30          The invention further relates to a method for (substantially) reducing or essentially
   removing the tendency of an ISV, a Nanobody or an ISV-based drug or a Nanobody-based
   drug to give rise to protein interference, said method comprising at least the steps of:

                                                    44
   -   optionally determining the tendency of the ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or
       Nanobody-based drug to give rise to protein interference, using a method that at least
       comprises steps (i) and (ii) as referred to herein;
   -   modifying said ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug by introducing
 5     one or more one or more amino acid substitutions, additions or deletions in said ISV or
       Nanobody, or in the C-terminal ISV or Nanobody (if any) of the ISV-based drug or
       Nanobody-based drug; and in particular by introducing one or more amino acid
       substitutions or additions in the C-terminal region of said ISV or Nanobody, or in the C
       terminal region of the C-terminal ISV or Nanobody (if any) of the ISV-based drug or
10     Nanobody-based drug, for example by adding to the C-terminal end of the sequence 1 to
       10, such as 1 to 5, such as 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acid residues each independently chosen
       from any naturally occurring amino acids (such as those listed in Table A-2 on page 64 of
       WO 09/138519, for example and without limitation from alanine, glycine, valine, leucine
       or isoleucine);
15 -   determining the tendency of the so modified ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or
       Nanobody-based drug to give rise to protein interference, using a method that at least
       comprises steps (i) and (ii) as referred to herein; optionally in a manner that allows the
       tendency of the so modified ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug to
       give rise to protein interference to be compared to the tendency of the original ISV,
20     Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug to give rise to protein interference
       (including, without limitation, comparing them in a competition assay for binding to the
       analytical antibody as described herein). Alternatively, the method described herein that
       involves the use of 21-4 may be used.
           The invention will now be further described by means of the following non-limiting
25 preferred aspects, examples and figures, in which:
   -   Figure 1A to 1C schematically shows some non-limiting examples of ADA assay
       formats. Some representative but non-limiting protocols for performing these assays are
       mentioned in Example 4.
   -   Figure 2 schematically shows a representative 3D structure of an ISV, such as a
30     Nanobody.

                                                 45
   -   Figure 3 is a binding curve (obtained using the BIACORE assay described in Example 3)
       showing the binding of NB's 3.4 to 3.9 (SEQ ID NO's. 5 to 10) to the immobilized
       polyclonal antibody obtained in Example 2.
   -   Figure 4 is a binding curve (obtained using the BIACORE assay described in Example 3)
 5     showing the binding of NB's 3.4, 3.11, 3.12 and 3.13 (SEQ ID NO's: 5, 12, 13 and 14) to
       the immobilized polyclonal antibody obtained in Example 2.
   -   Figure 5 is a binding curve (obtained using the BIACORE assay described in Example 3)
       showing the binding of NB's 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 (SEQ ID NO's: 5, 15 and 16) to the
       immobilized polyclonal antibody obtained in Example 2.
10 -   Figure 6 is a binding curve (obtained using the BIACORE assay described in Example 3)
       showing the binding of NB's 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4 (SEQ ID NO's: 3, 4 and 5) to the
       immobilized polyclonal antibody obtained in Example 2.
   -   Figure 7 is a binding curve (obtained using the BIACORE assay described in Example 3)
       showing the binding of NB's 4.1 and 4.2 (SEQ ID NO's: 17 and 18) to the immobilized
15     polyclonal antibody obtained in Example 2.
   -   Figure 8 is a binding curve (obtained using the BIACORE assay described in Example 3)
       showing the binding of NB's 6.1, 6.2, 6.4 and 6.5 (SEQ ID NO's 19 to 22) to the
       immobilized polyclonal antibody obtained in Example 2.
   -   Figure 9 gives is a Table showing the sequences used in Example 8 (SEQ ID NO's: 37 to
20     89) and setting out the corresponding reference sequence.
           The sequences referred to in the present description and claims are listed in Table A
   below (SEQ ID NO's: 1 to 37) and in Figure 9 (SEQ ID NO's: 38 to 89).

                              46
TABLE A
     Name    SEQ                     Sequence
              ID
             NO:
ISV Ex. 1/2-   1 EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSSYAMSWVRQAPGK
                 GLEWVSGIKSSGDSTRYAGSVKGRFTISRDNAKNTLYLQMNSL
                 RPEDTAVYYCAKSRVSRTGLYTYDNRGQGTLVTVSSGGGGSG
                 GGGSGGGGSGGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGRTF
                 NNYAMGWFRQAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDR
                 FTISRDNAKNTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYCAASAIGSGALRRFE
                 YDYSGQGTLVTVSS
Alt. ISV       2 EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSSYPMGWFRQAPGK
                 GREFVSSITGSGGSTYYADSVKGRFTISRDNAKNTLYLQMNSLR
                 PEDTAVYYCAAYIRPDTYLSRDYRKYDYWGQGTLVTVSSGGG
                 GSGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPGNSLRLSCAASGFTFSSFGMSWV
                 RQAPGKGLEWVSSISGSGSDTLYADSVKGRFTISRDNAKTTLYL
                 QMNSLRPEDTAVYYCTIGGSLSRSSQGTLVTVSSGGGGSGGGS
                 EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSSYPMGWFRQAPGK
                 GREFVSSITGSGGSTYYADSVKGRFTISRDNAKNTLYLQMNSLR
                 PEDTAVYYCAAYIRPDTYLSRDYRKYDYWGQGTLVTVSS
>Nb3.1         3 EVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGWYRHRTG
                 EPRELVATITGGSSINYGDFVKGRFTISIDNAKNTVYLQMNNLK
                 PEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTQVTVSS
>Nb3.2         4 EVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGWYRHRTG
                 EPRELVATITGGSSINYGDFVKGRFTISIDNAKNTVYLQMNNLK
                 PEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTQVTVSSAAAEQKLISEED
                 LNGAAHHHHHH
>Nb3.4         5 EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGWYRHRPGE
                 PRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQMNSLRPE
                 DTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSS

                                47
TABLE A (continued)
Name           SEQ  Sequence
                ID
               NO:
>Nb3.5           6  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSAA
>Nb3.6           7  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSA
>Nb3.7           8  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSG
>Nb3.8           9  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSGG
>Nb3.9          10  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSGGG
>Nb3.10         11  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSS
>Nb3.11         12  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLKPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSS
>Nb3.12         13  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTQVTVSS

                                 48
TABLE A (continued)
Name           SEQ  Sequence
                ID
               NO:
>Nb3.13         14  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTQVTVSS
>Nb3.14         15  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVQVSS
>Nb3.15         16  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGSVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGW
                    YRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQ
                    MNSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSS
>Nb4.1          17  EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGSVFKINVMAWYRQAPG
                    KGRELVAGIISGGSTSYADSVKGRFTISRDNAKNTLYLQMNSLR
                    PEDTAVYYCAFITTESDYDLGRRYWGQGTLVTVSS
>Nb4.2          18  EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGSVFKINVMAWYRQAPG
                    KGRELVAGIISGGSTSYADSVKGRFTISRDNAKNTLYLQMNSLR
                    PEDTAVYYCAFITTESDYDLGRRYWGQGTLVTVSSGGGGSGG
                    GSRDWDFDVFGGGTPVGG
>Nb6.1          19  EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCIASGLPFSTKSMGWFRQAPGK
                    EREFVARISPGGTSRYYGDFVKGRFAISRDNAKNTTWLQMNSL
                    KAEDTAVYYCASGERSTYIGSNYYRTNEYDYWGTGTQVTVSS
                    AAAEQKLISEEDLNGAAHHHHHH
>Nb6.2          20  EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCIASGLPFSTKSMGWFRQAPGK
                    EREFVARISPGGTSRYYGDFVKGRFAISRDNAKNTTWLQMNSL
                    KAEDTAVYYCASGERSTYIGSNYYRTNEYDYWGTGTQVTVSS
>Nb6.4          21  EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGLPFSTKSMGWFRQAPGK
                    GREFVSRISPGGTSRYYGDFVKGRFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLR
                    AEDTAVYYCASGERSTYIGSNYYRTNEYDYWGQGTLVTVSSA
                    AAEQKLISEEDLNGAAHHHHHH

                                 49
TABLE A (continued)
Name          SEQ   Sequence
               ID
              NO:
>Nb6.5         22   EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGLPFSTKSMGWFRQAPGK
                    GREFVSRISPGGTSRYYGDFVKGRFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLR
                    AEDTAVYYCASGERSTYIGSNYYRTNEYDYWGQGTLVTVSS
Example 1C:    23   HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
wildtype            WFRRAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
                    KNTLYLQMNSLKPEDTAVYTCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
                    QVTVSS
Example 1C:    24   HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(A14P)              WFRRAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
                    KNTLYLQMNSLKPEDTAVYTCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
                    QVTVSS
Example 1C:    25   HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(K83R)              WFRRAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
                    KNTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYTCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
                    QVTVSS
Example 1C:    26   HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQAGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(Q108L)             WFRRAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
                    KNTLYLQMNSLKPEDTAVYTCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
                    LVTVSS
Example 1C:    27   HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(Al4P,K83R,         WFRRAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
Q108L)              KNTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYTCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
                    LVTVSS
Example 1c:    28   HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(Al4P,R39Q,         WFRQAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
K83R,T91Y,Q         KNTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
108L)               LVTVSS

                                  50
TABLE A (continued)
Name           SEQ  Sequence
                ID
               NO:
Example 1C:     29  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(Al4P,R39Q,         WFRQAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
K83R,T91Y,Q         KNTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
108L)-1A            LVTVSSA
Example 1C:     30  HHHHHHEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGRTFNNYAMG
(Al4P,R39Q,         WFRQAPGKEREFVAAITRSGVRSGVSAIYGDSVKDRFTISRDNA
K83R,T91Y,Q         KNTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYCAASAIGSGALRRFEYDYSGQGT
108L)-3A            LVTVSSAAA
Nb3.16          31  DVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGWYRHRPGEPREL
                    VATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYC
                    NFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSGGGGSGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPG
                    NSLRLSCAASGFTFSSFGMSWVRQAPGKGLEWVSSISGSGSDTLYADS
                    VKGRFTISRDNAKTTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYCTIGGSLSRSSQGTLV
                    TVSSGGGGSGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRM
                    GWYRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQM
                    NSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSS
Nb3.17          32  DVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRMGWYRHRPGEPREL
                    VATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYC
                    NFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSGGGGSGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPG
                    NSLRLSCAASGFTFSSFGMSWVRQAPGKGLEWVSSISGSGSDTLYADS
                    VKGRFTISRDNAKTTLYLQMNSLRPEDTAVYYCTIGGSLSRSSQGTLV
                    TVSSGGGGSGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASRSIGRLDRM
                    GWYRHRPGEPRELVATITGGSSINYGDSVKGRFTISIDNSKNTVYLQM
                    NSLRPEDTAVYYCNFNKYVTSRDTWGQGTLVTVSSA

                                 51
TABLE A (continued)
Name           SEQ  Sequence
                ID
               NO:
C-terminal      33  VTVSS
sequence
C-terminal      34  VTVSS(X),
sequence
21-4-3, IGH     35   QIQLVQSGPELKKPGETVKISCKASGYTFTAYSMHWVKQAPG
                     KGLKWMGWINTVTGEPAYADDFKGRFAFSLETSASTAYLQIS
consensus             SLKNEDTATYFCTRGLIHFYYWGQGTTLTVSSAKTTPPSVYPL
                     APGSAAQTNSMVTLGCLVKGYFPEPVTVTWNSGSLSSGVHTF
                     PAVLQSDLYTLSSSVTVPSSTWPSETVTCNVAHPASSTKVDKK
                     IVPRDC
21-4-3-IGK      36   DIQMTQTPSSLSASLGGRVTITCKASQDIHNFISWYQHKPGKV
                     PRLIIHDTSTLQPGIPSRFSGSGSGRDYSFSITNLEPEDIATYYCL
consensus            HYDNLLRSFGGGTKLEIKRADAAPTVSIFPPSSEQLTSGGASV
                     VCFLNNFYPKDINVKWKIDGSERQNGVLNSWTDQDSKDSTY
                      SMSSTLTLTKDEYERHNSYTCEATHKTSTSPIVKSFNRNEC

                                                    52
   Experimental Part:
   Example 1: Generation of a polyclonal analytical antibody.
            A polyclonal antibody (IgG fraction) that can be used as the "analytical antibody" was
   generated as follows:
 5
   A. Identification of suitable plasma samples for isolating the polyclonal antibody
            Twenty plasma samples from healthy individuals that were never treated with an ISV
   were evaluated for presence of antibodies against ISV that can be used as the analytical
   antibody in the invention.
10          The ISV that was initially used in this Example was SEQ ID NO: 1. Subsequently, to
   confirm that the interaction is not specific for this particular ISV, but is an aspecific protein
   protein interaction that may occur with a number of ISV's, the assays below were repeated
   with other ISV's (see paragraph C) below). As an alternative for SEQ ID NO:1, for example
   SEQ ID NO:2 may also be used.
15          The assay used was an ECL (Electrochemiluminescence) based bridging assay that
   used biotinylated ISV (a biotinylated variant of SEQ ID NO: 1) to capture and sulfo-tagged
   ISV to detect anti-drug antibodies. A similar format is also used for performing ADA assays.
   Biotinylation and sulfo-tagging of the ISV was done using standard coupling chemistry on
   primary amines using Sulfo-NHS-LC-Biotin (Pierce) and Sulfo-tag NHS-Ester (MSD),
20 respectively according to the manufacturer's instructions. The plasma samples were diluted
    1/5 in PBS/0.1% casein and were incubated for 30 minutes at 37*C, 600 RPM in 96 well
   polypropylene plates. The samples (50 pL) were then diluted 1/3 in 1:1 mixture (100 gL) of 2
   gg/ml biotinylated and 2 ptg/ml sulfo-tagged ISV (SEQ ID NO:l) and incubated for 1 hour at
   RT, 600 RPM. MSD MA*96-well Standard Streptavidin plates were blocked with 150
25 pL/well Superblock* T20 for 1 hour at RT, then washed 3 times with PBS/0.05%Tween20 (
   wash buffer). Sample/ 1:1 mix (biotinylated and sulfo-tagged ISV (SEQ ID NO:1) (50.0 pL)
   was transferred from the polypropylene plate to the MSD plate and incubated for 1 hour at
   RT, 600 rpm. Plates were washed three times prior to addition of 2 x Read Buffer (MSD)
   (150 pL/well) and reading the ECL units (ECLU) on an MSD instrument (Sector Imager
30 2400 reader). Samples were screened as positive or negative using the screening cut-point
   determined during method validation. The screening cut-point was calculated based on the
   background values of 118 individual plasma samples from healthy individuals that were
   never treated with an ISV, using appropriate statistical analysis as recommended by the

                                                   53
   guidelines for ADA assay development (Shankar, 2008). A non-parametric assessment was
   used and the cut-off value was calculated based on the 95" percentile, after exclusion of
   outliers.
            Six plasma samples were clearly scored as positive: IHuP#002-001-ABL-01,
 5 IHuP#002-001-ABL-08, IHuP#002-001-ABL-10, IHuP#002-001-ABL-15, IHuP#002-001
   ABL-19 and IHuP#002-001-ABL-20 (Table I).
           These samples were further analyzed in a drug displacement set-up (confirmatory
   assay) to confirm the specificity of the positive screening outcome (Table II). Therefore, the
   samples were diluted 1/5 in PBS/0.1%casein containing 12.5 ptg/mL ISV (SEQ ID NO:1)
10 and were incubated for 30 minutes at 37*C, 600 RPM in 96 well polypropylene plates. The
   samples (50 gL) are then diluted 1/3 in 1:1 mixture (100 gL) of 2 pg/ml biotinylated and 2
   pg/ml sulfo-tagged ISV (SEQ ID NO:1) and incubated for 1 hour at RT, 600 RPM.
   Subsequently, sample/ 1: 1 mix (biotinylated and sulfo-tagged ISV) (50.0 gL) was transferred
   from the polypropylene plate to the blocked MSD MA*96-well Standard Streptavidin plate as
15 described above for the screening assay and incubated for 1 hour at RT, 600 rpm. Plates were
   washed three times prior to addition of 2 x Read Buffer (MSD) (150    stL/well) and measuring
   ECL units (ECLU) on an MSD instrument (Sector Imager 2400 reader). Samples were
   confirmed as true positives using the confirmatory cut-point determined during method
   validation and was calculated on the ECL response of 118 individual plasma samples from
20 healthy individuals that were never treated with ISV, that were spiked with 50 pg/ml ISV
   (SEQ ID NO:1) using appropriate statistical analysis as recommended by the guidelines for
   ADA assay development (Shankar, 2008). A minimal signal reduction of 50% was calculated
   based on the 99% confidence interval.
            Samples that were positive in the ECL based bridging assay and that were confirmed
25 as positive in the drug displacement set-up assay were selected as a source for generating the
   polyclonal antibody using affinity chromatography.

                                           54
Table I: screening results of 20 plasma samples in the ADA ISV assay.
 Sample ID                        ECLU screening assay
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-01                                 13081
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-02                                  56
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-03                                 272
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-04                                 125
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-05                                  70
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-06                                  99
  IHuP#002-001-ABL-07                                 170
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-08                               659358
 lHuP#002-001 -ABL-09                                 798
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-10                                  1101
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-11                                   83
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-12                                   72
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-13                                  403
 lHuP#002-001-ABL-14                                   62
 lHuP#002-001-ABL-15                                  1141
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-16                                   159
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-17                                   72
 lHuP#002-001-ABL-18                                   170
 IHuP#002-001-ABL-19                                  4503
 IHuP#002-001 -ABL-20                                 8243

                                                55
   Table II: Confirmation of positively screened plasma samples in the confirmatory
   assay. A confirmatory cut-point of 50% was used for evaluation of the results. One
   sample was not confirmed as a true positive sample
    Plasma sample ID         ECLU screening       ECLU confirmatory       %signal inhibition
                             assay: plasma        assay: plasma
    IHuP#002-001 -           13081                685                     95
    ABL-01
    IHuP#002-001-            659358               169410                  74
    ABL-08
    IHuP#002-001-            1101                 582                     47
    ABL-10
    IHuP#002-001-            1141                 467                     59
    ABL-15
    IHuP#002-001-           4503                  1531                    66
    ABL-19
    IHuP#002-001-            8243                 1450                    82
    ABL-20
 5
           A further three serum samples from individuals that not have been treated with an ISV
   were also evaluated using the ECL based bridging assay described above and confirmed
   using the drug displacement set-up assay.
           Two serum samples were clearly scored as positive in the ECL based bridging assay:
10 IHUS#B0903231 1A3 and IHUS#B0903231 1A20 (Table III). The 2 positively screened
   samples were further analyzed in the drug displacement set-up to confirm the specificity of
   the positive screening outcome.

                                                   56
   Table III: Screening and confirmatory results of 3 serum samples and corresponding
                   IgG purified fraction
   Serum sample ID          ECL        ECL signal     % signal    ECL       ECL signal     %signal
                            signal     confirmator    inhibitio   signal    confirmator   inhibitio
                            screening  y assay:       n           screenin  y assay:      n
                            g assay:   serum                      g assay:  IgG
                            serum                                 IgG
   IHUS#B09032311A          2388       286            88%         3716      370            90%
   3
   IHUS#B09032311A          19272      915            95%         31309     1160           96%
   20
   IHUS#B0903231 1A         62
   1
 5 B. Generation of purified polyclonal IgG fraction.
           A polyclonal IgG was purified from the samples IHUS#B090323 11 A3 and
   IHUS#B0903231 1A20 (see above) using Protein G HP Spin Trap Columns (GE Healthcare)
   according to the manufacturer's instructions. In short, after removal of the storage solution
   form the column by centrifugation (30s at 100x g), the column was equilibrated by adding
10 binding buffer (20 mM sodium phosphate, pH 7.0). After centrifugation, the solution
   containing the desired polyclonal was added (max I mg in 600 pl) and column was incubated
   for 4 min while gently mixing. The column was then centrifuged and washed 2x by
   successive addition of binding buffer (600pl) and centrifugation. After addition of 400 pl
   elution buffer (0,1 M glycine-HCL, pH 2.7) and mixing by inversion, the antibody was eluted
15 by centrifugation in 30 pd neutralization buffer (1M Tris-HCL, pH 9.0).
           In order to confirm that the IgG fraction thus obtained was involved in aspecific
   binding to the ISV(s), the purified IgG antibody was analyzed in the ECL based bridging
   assay described above and confirmed using the drug displacement set-up assay used under A)
   above. In both samples (IHUS#B0903231 1A3 and IHUS#B0903231 1A20), purified IgG
20 antibody was confirmed to be involved in the aspecific binding leading to a positive signal in

                                                    57
   the assays (Table III). This confirmed that the purified polyclonal IgG could be used as an
   "analytical antibody", and it was used as such in (the assays of) Examples 3 and 5.
   C. Aspecific binding to other ISV's.
            In order to determine whether the protein interference observed is specific for a single
 5 ISV, and/or is specific for a particular region, epitope or antigenic determinant on ISV's,
   and/or for certain mutations made to wildtype ISV's (such as one or more humanizing
   mutations), the ECL based bridging assay and the drug displacement set-up assay (both as
   described under A) above, with SEQ ID NO: 1 being used as the sulfo-tagged ISV) were
   repeated using the plasma samples IUS#B09032311A3, IHUS#B0903231 1A20 and
10 IHUS#B0903231 AL. As these plasma samples contain the polyclonal "analytical" antibody
   isolated under B) above, this also provides information on the specificity, selectivity and
   epitope recognition of the polyclonal analytical antibody.
            8 ISV's were tested (SEQ ID NO's 23 to 30, respectively - see Table A above), of
   which one was a wildtype VHH (SEQ ID NO: 23) and the other 7 ISV's were humanized
15 versions of the wildtype sequence with different humanizing substitutions. Two ISV's (SEQ
   ID NO's: 29 and 30) also contained additional amino acid residues at the C-terminus (1 and 3
   additional alanine residues, respectively).
            The data are shown in Table IV. Without being limited to any explanation or
   hypothesis, it can be seen that changes to the C-terminal region (as defined herein) can
20 apparently strongly influence the extent to which the plasma samples used can give rise to
   protein interference. For example, it can be seen that adding one or three amino acid residues
   to the C-terminus can strongly reduce the tendency for protein interference to arise (for
   example, only 18 and 13% reduction in the ECLU assay with sample IHUS#B09032311 A3
   for SEQ ID NO's: 29 and 30, compared to 90% reduction for SEQ ID NO: 28, the
25 corresponding humanized variant without any amino acid residues added to the C-terminus).
   Similarly, introducing a proline residue at position 14 of the wildtype sequence can
   apparently also strongly influence the extent to which the plasma samples used can give rise
   to protein interference (for example, only 20 % reduction in the ECLU assay with sample
   IHUS#B09032311A3 for the wildtype sequence of SEQ ID NO's: 23, compared to 91%
30 reduction for SEQ ID NO: 24, the wildtype sequence with an A14P substitution). K83R and
   Q1 08L, which are also substitutions close to the C-terminal region, also lead to some increase
   in the tendency to give rise to protein interference, but not as much as the Al 4P substitution,

                                                     58
   and the total combined effect of the A14P+K83R+Q108L substitutions can be negated by
   adding one or more amino acid residues to the C-terminus (compare again the data for SEQ
   ID NO's: 29 and 30 with the data for the other humanized variants).
            Based on this data, it was also concluded that apparently, the polyclonal analytical
 5 antibody recognized the C-terminal region (as defined herein) of ISV's generally. As can be
   seen from Figure 2, position 14 (and to a lesser degree positions 83 and 108) also form parts
   of the C-terminal region of an ISV(when the three-dimensional ternary structure of an ISV is
   taken into account).
10 Table IV: Evaluation of different Nanobody variants as competitor in the ISV ADA
                    assay using the analytical antibody.
             Serum sample ID               IHUS#B09032311      IHUS#B09032311      IHUS#B09032311
                                                   A3                  A20                 Al
     ECLU in screening assay (using               2217                18494                62
              SEQ ID NO: 1)
      Nanobody Variant (right hand          ECLU           %    ECLU           %    ECLU         %
     column mentions the humanizing        confirmat    reduct confirmat    reduct confirmat  reducti
        substitutions and C-terminal       ory assay      ion  ory assay      ion  ory assay     on
      additions made compared to the
   wildtype sequence of SEQ ID NO:23
    SEQ ID NO:         Wildtype VHH           1778         20    8682         53      60         4
         23
    SEQ IDNO:          Wildtype VHH           205          91     668         96      56         10
         24                +A14P
    SEQ IDNO:          Wildtype VHH           1403         37    6912          63     62          1
         25                +K83R
      SEQ ID          Wildtype VHH           1533          31    6991         62      59          5
      NO: 26              +Q108L

                                               59
Table IV (continued)
         Serum sample ID             IHUS#B09032311       IUS#B09032311     IHUS#B09032311
                                             A3                 A20                 Al
 ECLU in screening assay (using             2217               18494                62
          SEQ ID NO: 1)
   Nanobody Variant (right hand        ECLU          %     ECLU         %    ECLU         %
 column mentions the humanizing      confirmat    reduct confirmat   reduct confirmat  reducti
    substitutions and C-terminal     ory assay      ion  ory assay     ion  ory assay    on
  additions made compared to the
wildtype sequence of SEQ ID NO:23
SEQ ID NO:         Wildtype VHH         156          93     628        97      57         8
     27         +A14P+K83R+Q108
                          L
SEQ ID NO:        Wildtype VHH +        228          90     570         97     58         6
     28           A14P + R39Q +
                  K83R + T91Y +
                       Q108L
SEQ ID NO:        Wildtype VHH +        1814         18    15087        18     60         3
     29           A14P + R39Q +
                  K83R + T91Y +
                Q108L + 1 additional
                  A at C-terminus
                       (A114)
SEQ ID NO:        Wildtype VHH +        1933         13    15244        18      62        0
     30           A14P + R39Q +
                  K83R + T91Y +
                Q108L + 3 A's at C
                      terminus
                (Al14+A1 15+A116)

                                                     60
   Example 2: affinity purification of analytical antibody
            This Example describes two methods that can be used to isolate from a biological
   fluid from a human subject an analytical antibody that is able to recognize and/or bind the C
 5 terminal end of an ISV. The antibody is isolated from 4 different serum samples that were
   characterized in that these induced a positive signal in an ADA assay according to the test as
   described in Example 1.
            Starting from serum samples, each of these protocols provide a purified preparation of
   interference factor(s) that can be used as the analytical antibody in the methods described
10 herein. These methods can also more generally be used to purify the interference factor(s) for
   other purposes (for example, the interference factor(s) purified using the protocols below
   were also used experimentally in Example 8 in order to show that binding to an ISV or ISV
   construct by monoclonal 21-4 is predictive for binding of the same ISV or ISV-construct by
   interference factors, and thus by the tendency of said ISV or ISV-construct to undergo
15 aspecific protein interference in an ADA assay).
   Example 2A: purification using protein A and affinity chromatography
            In a first step, the IgG antibody fraction was enriched from the serum samples using
   protein A affinity chromatography. Typical columns that were used for this enrichment
20 included HiTrap MabselectSure and MabSelectXtra (GE Healthcare); PorosMabCapture A
   (Applied Biosystems). Purification of the IgG antibodies from the serum samples was
   performed in an automated and similar manner over all experiments. Chromatographic runs
   were performed on the AKTA purifier systems (GE Healthcare) and logged in real-time using
   UNICORN protein purification software (GE Healthcare). Briefly, the serum sample was
25 diluted 1:1 with D-PBS (Dulbecco's Phosphate-Buffered Saline) and 0.22 pim filtered before
   uploading on the column at a fixed flow rate of 0.5 mL/ min. The column was washed to
   remove non-specific binding components over 5 column volumes using D-PBS at a flow rate
   of 0.5 mL/min. The IgG fraction was eluted by acidic elution, using 100 mM Glycine pH 2.6
   buffer, and a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min. After elution, the fractions were neutralized using 1.5
30 M Tris buffer pH 8.8. SDS-PAGE was run to confirm the isolation of IgG antibodies in the
   elution.
           In a second step, the interfering IgGs were further enriched by applying the protein A
   purified IgG fraction from the 4 different sera onto ISV coupled affinity columns. More

                                                   61
   specifically, the interfering IgG were further enriched by binding to a column containing an
   ISV with sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. To this, the ISV was covalently linked to Sepharose 4
   fast flow (GE Healthcare) using the CNBr (Cyanogen bromide) -coupling method according
   to the manufacturer's procedure. The affinity purification was performed in an automated
 5 and similar manner over all experiments. Chromatographic runs were performed on the
   AKTA purifier systems and logged in UNICORN. Briefly, the IgG enriched sample (up to
    1OmL loading volume) was uploaded on the column at a fixed flow rate of 0.5 mL/ min. The
   column was washed to remove non-specific binding-components over 5 column volumes
   using D-PBS at a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min. The ISV-binding components were eluted by
10 acidic elution, using 100 mM Glycine pH 2.6 buffer, and a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min. After
   elution, the fractions were neutralized using 1.5 M Tris buffer pH 8.8. The fractions were
   analyzed using SDS-PAGE which confirmed the isolation of IgG antibodies in the elution
   (data not shown).
           These fractions were pooled and used for further analyses such as those described in
15 Example 3.
   Example 2B: purification suing CaptureSelectTm chromatography.
           Alternatively, interference factor(s) were recovered from plasma and purified using
   the commercially available IgA binding affinity resin CaptureSelect hIgATM (BAC BV),
20 which is based on camelid-derived heavy-chain only variable domains (VHH). The collected
   'IgA fraction' containing IgA together with interfering IgG was subsequently loaded onto a
   protein A column to remove the IgA fraction. The protein A column was processed according
   to generic IgG purification conditions (running buffer: PBS; elution buffer: 100mM glycine
   pH=2.7; post elution neutralization via 1M Tris). The interference factor was recovered from
25 the Prot A elution in >95% yield.
           In a variation to this method, another CaptureSelect affinity resin (CaptureSelect
   Alpha- 1 Antitrypsin resin, a VHH based commercially available affinity resin, not targeting
   any antibody related proteins) was be used. This resin provided a high interference factor
   binding efficacy and allowed for a selective 2 step elution: antitrypsin via neutral pH elution
30 using 2.0 M MgCl2, followed by the interference factor elution via an acidic step (0.1 M
   Glycine pH3.0, similar to protein A/G elution conditions; neutralisation using 1.5M Tris).
   This one step purification yielded up to 15 tg interfering IgG1 per mL high interference
   plasma, which is approximately 0.3% of the total IgG present. Optionally, the neutralised

                                                   62
   interference fraction can be desalted and further purified via a Size Exclusion Column
   equilibrated in D-PBS.
   Example 3: Influence of different ISV substitutions on the tendency of ISV to give rise
 5 to protein interference
           As mentioned in the description above, the present invention makes available certain
   assays and techniques which make it possible to make an assessment of whether or not a
   given ISV has a tendency to give rise to protein interference. These include the ECL based
   bridging assay and the drug displacement set-up assay used in Example 1, as well as the
10 BIACORE assay described in this Example 3 and the bridging/competition ADA assay
   described in the further Examples below.
           As also mentioned in the description above, these assays can also be used to
   determine whether specific changes (such as amino acid deletions, substitutions or additions)
   can influence (and preferably reduce) the tendency of a given ISV to give rise to protein
15 interference. Some of these changes will be or become clear to the skilled person based on
   the disclosure herein and on the experimental data presented in Example 1 and this Example
   3.
           As already indicated by the data generated in Example 1, it appears that certain
   mutations in or close to the C-terminal region (as defined herein) of an ISV can (strongly)
20 influence its tendency to give rise to protein interference. For example, adding a few amino
   acid residues to the C-terminus (such as 1 or 3 alanine residues) appears to strongly reduce
   the tendency of an ISV to give rise to protein interference, and appears even to be able to
   negate the presence of other substitutions (for example, in or close to the C-terminal region)
   which appear to increase the tendency to give rise to protein interference (for example, an
25 A14P substitution).
           In this Example 3, both the effect of other substitutions as well as the effect of adding
   additional amino acids to the C-terminus was investigated by comparing related ISV's with
   different substitutions, using the analytical polyclonal antibody generated in Example 2. The
   analysis was done by measuring the kinetics of interaction between each of the ISV's
30 investigated and the analytical polyclonal by means of surface Plasmon resonance (SPR)
   using the Biacore     T 100 biosensor from GE Healthcare. The ISV tested in this Example 3
   were those of SEQ ID NO's 3 to 22 (see Table A above and Table V below).

                                                  63
           In a typical experiment, a polyclonal antibody solution was prepared at 10 Rg/ml in 10
   mM NaOAc pH5.0. This polyclonal antibody was then immobilized on a CM5 sensorchip
   using amine coupling by the EDC/NHS method (EDC=N-ethyl-N'-[3-diethylamino-propyl]
   carbodiimide; NHS=N-hydroxysuccinimide) according to the manufacturer's procedure. The
 5 amount immobilized gave approximately 2700 response units (RU). A fixed concentration of
   500 nM of ISV was then injected onto the surface for 120 seconds at a flow rate of 45 tl per
   minute. Because no efficient regeneration buffer could be identified, the dissociation time
   was elongated to 2400 seconds. The signal obtained by injecting the ISV onto a blank flow
   cell was subtracted from the signal obtained by injecting the ISV onto the polyclonal
10 antibody bound flow cell. The blank flow cell was activated/deactivated in a similar way as
   the flow cell for the polyclonal antibody, but without adding protein. Also, a blank injection
   (HBS-EP + running buffer (HBS= Hepes Buffered Saline: GE Healthcare) was subtracted to
   correct for possible baseline drift.
           To examine the effect of adding amino acid residues to the C-terminus, the influence
15 of adding 1 or 2 alanines and 1, 2 or 3 glycines was investigated by comparing the binding of
   ISV with the different additions, using an analytical polyclonal antibody generated as
   described in example 2. The ISV's generated and tested for this purpose were NB's 3.4 to 3.9
   (SEQ ID NO's: 5 to 10).
           As representative examples of the kind of data obtained, Figure 3 shows the binding
20 of NB's 3.4 to 3.9 to the immobilized polyclonal antibody. Table V summarizes the results
   obtained.

                                                      64
   TABLE V
   Clone ID       SEQ         Position        Position      Position     Position       Binding**
                  ID            113P           114(1)         115")       1160             (RU)
                  NO
   NB 3.4            5            S                                                          75
   NB 3.5            6            S               A                                           9
   NB 3.6            7            S               A                                           8
                                                                A
   NB 3.7            8            S               G                                          31
   NB 3.8            9            S               G             G                            13
   NB 3.9            10           S               G             G           G                13
   **: Binding signal obtained at the end of injection (=maximal RU signal)
   (1)In this numbering, position 113 is the last "S"of the C-terminal VTVSS motif, and positions 114,
   115 and 116 are the positions immediately following (downstream) of said position 113.
 5
            To examine the effect of (other) substitutions in the C-terminal region, the influence
   of different substitutions was investigated by comparing related ISV's containing these
   substitutions, using the same analytical polyclonal antibody as described above. The analysis
   was done as described above.
10          The ISVs containing said substitutions that were tested were NB's 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4
   (SEQ ID NO's 3, 4 and 5); NB's 3.10 to 3.15 (SEQ ID NO's 11 to 16), which were compared
   with NB 3.4; NB's 4.1 and 4.2 (SEQ ID NO's 17 and 18) and NB's 6.1, 6.2, 6.4 and 6.5
   (SEQ ID NO's 19 to 22).
            As representative examples of the kind of data obtained:
15 -    Figure 4 shows the binding of NB's 3.4, 3.11, 3.12 and 3.13 to the immobilized
        polyclonal antibody;
   -    Figure 5 shows the binding of NB's 3.4, 3.14 and 3.15 to the immobilized polyclonal
        antibody;
   -    Figure 6 shows the binding of NB's 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4 to the immobilized polyclonal
20      antibody;
   -    Figure 7 shows the binding of NB's 4.1 and 4.2 to the immobilized polyclonal antibody;

                                                      65
   -   Figure 8 shows the binding of NB's 6.1, 6.2, 6.4 and 6.5 to the immobilized polyclonal
       antibody.
           Tables VI, VII and VIII summarize the results obtained.
 5 TABLE VI
   Clone ID          SEQ       Position        Position       Position      Binding**
                     ID           14()            83           1080)          (RU)
                     NO
   NB 3.4            5             P                R            L              75
   NB 3.10           11            A                R            L             91
   NB 3.11           12            P                K            L              88
   NB 3.12           13            A                R            Q              86
   NB 3.13           14            P                R            Q             90
   **: Binding signal obtained at the end of injection (=maximal RU signal)
      numbering according to Kabat.
   TABLE VII
   Clone ID           SEQ       Position         Position        Binding*
                      ID           11)             110)              (RU)
                      NO
   NB 3.4             5              L               T                75
   NB 3.14            15             L               Q                79
   NB 3.15            16             S               T                22
10 **: Binding signal obtained at the end of injection (=maximal RU signal)
     numbering according to Kabat.

                                                          66
    TABLE VIII
    Clone ID            SEQ     Position 14       Position       Position       Tag*      Binding**
                        ID                          83(l)          108  (                    (RU)
                        NO:
    NB 3.1              3             A               K              Q           -              2
    NB 3.2              4             A               K              Q           +              0
    NB 3.4              5             P               R              L           -             59
    Clone ID                    Position 14       Position       Position      Tag*       Binding**
                                                    83 (3)         108                       (RU)
    NB 4,1              17            P               R              L           -             51
    NB 4.2              18            P               R              L           +              0
    Clone ID                    Position 14       Position       Position      Tag*       Binding**
                                                    83 (5         108 (6)                    (RU)
    NB 6.1              19            P               K              Q           +              0
    NB 6.2              20            P               K              Q           -             39
    NB 6.4              21            P               R              L           +              0
    NB 6.5             22             P               R              L           -             66
    *:   if"+", this ISV contains additional amino acids at the C-terminal VTVSS end
    **:   Binding signal obtained at the end of injection (=maximal RU signal)
   (1): numbering acc. to Kabat (corresponds to the a.a. at position 87 in SEQ ID NO's 3 to 5).
 5 (2):  numbering acc, to Kabat (corresponds to the a.a. at position 123 in SEQ IDNO's 3 to 5).
   (3) numbering acc. to Kabat (corresponds to the a.a. at position 86 in SEQ ID NO's 17 and 18).
   (4) numbering acc. to Kabat (corresponds to the a.a. at position 116 in SEQ ID NO's 17 and 18).
       : numbering acc. to Kabat (corresponds to the a.a. at position 86 in SEQ ID NO's 19 to 22).
    (6): numbering acc. to Kabat (corresponds to the a.a. at position
                                                                       112 in SEQ IDNO's 19 to 22).
10
             Again, without being limited to any specific hypothesis or explanation, the data
   presented above shows that (various) substitutions to the C-terminal region (as defined
   herein) of an ISV can alter/improve its tendency to give rise to protein interference.
15

                                                   67
   Example 4: representative protocols for performing the ADA assays of Figure 1.
           This Example gives some representative but non-limiting conditions that could be
   used for performing the competitive/bridging ADA assays schematically shown in Figure 1:
   -   ADA assay of Figure 1A in solution: Samples 100% matrix, 30', 37'C, Acid treatment
 5     using acetic acid in 10 matrix, 5', RT, Preincubation/acid neutralisation
       sample: ISV-Sulfo (:Tris) 1:1:1 (1: 0,9:0,9: 0,1), lh,RT; On plate 1 h, RT; Wash 3x,
       Readbuffer 4X
   -   ADA assay of Figure 1B in solution: Samples 20% matrix, 30', 37*C, Preincubation
       sample: ISV- -Sulfo 1:1:1, 1h, RT, On plate 1 h, RT, Wash 3x, Readbuffer 2x
10 -   Sequential ADA assay of Figure IC: Capture ISV-Bio, 1 h, RT, Wash 3X, Samples 20%
       matrix, 15', RT, On plate: 2h, RT, Wash 3X, Detection ALX-0141-Sulfo, 1h, RT, Wash
       3x, Readbuffer 4X
   Example 5: Predicting sensitivity of the ISV to aspecific protein interference using the
15 analytical antibody.
           This example describes a bridging/competition ADA assay using the analytical
   antibody that can be used to predict sensitivity of an ISV to aspecific protein interference.
           The ISV to be tested is diluted at a concentration of 10 ptg/ml and incubated with the
   analytical antibody at 400 ng/ml, purified according to Example 2, and incubated at 37'C at
20 600 rpm in 96 well polypropylene plates. The sample (50 pL) is then diluted 1/3 in 1:1
   mixture (100 tL) of 2 pg/ml biotinylated and 2 gg/ml sulfo-tagged ISV and incubated for 1
   hour at RT, 600 RPM. MSD MA*96-well Standard Streptavidin plates are blocked with 150
   pL/well Superblock* T20 for 1 hour at RT, then washed 3 times with PBS/0.05%Tween20 (=
   wash buffer). Sample/ 1:1 mix (biotinylated and sulfo-tagged ISV) (50.0 iL) is transferred
25 from the polypropylene plate to the MSD plate and incubated for 1 hour at RT, 600 rpm.
   Plates are washed three times prior to addition of 2 x Read Buffer (MSD) (150 pL/well) and
   reading the ECL units (ECLU) on an MSD instrument (Sector Imager 2400 reader).
           Using this assay, the ISVs of SEQ ID NO's 23 to 30 were tested and compared. The
   data are shown in Table IX. These data not only show that the assay described in this
30 Example can be used to predict the tendency of an ISV to give rise to protein interference, but
   the data generated also confirm the findings from the earlier Examples on the effect of
   substitutions in the C-terminal region. As can be seen, addition of 3 (and to lesser extent 1)

                                                    68
   Alanine residues at the C-terminus of the fully humanized ISV abolished its capacity to
   compete with binding of the analytical antibody. Mutating position 14 on the wild type ISV
   variant from Alanine to Proline clearly increased its capacity as competitor in the assay,
   (=making the ISV variant more prone to aspecific protein interference), whereas mutating
 5 position 83 and 108 did not clearly influenced the sensitivity of the ISV to aspecific protein
   interference.
   Table IX
     ID affinity purified antibody                               IHuP#002-001-ABL-08
     ECLU in screening assay (using SEQ ID NO:1)                 2919
     Nanobody Variant (right hand column mentions the            ECLU               %
     humanizing substitutions and C-terminal additions made      confirmatory      reduction
     compared to the wildtype sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23)         assay
      SEQ IDNO: 23         Wildtype VHH                               2706               7.3
      SEQ IDNO: 24         Wildtype VIH +A14P                          268              90.8
      SEQ IDNO: 25         Wildtype VHH +K83R                         2460             15.71
      SEQ IDNO: 26         Wildtype VHH +Q108L                        2533             13.23
      SEQ IDNO: 27         Wildtype VHH                                319              89.1
                           +Al4P+K83R+Q108L
      SEQ ID NO: 28        Wildtype VHH + Al4P + R39Q +                251              91.4
                           K83R + T91Y + Q108L
      SEQ ID NO: 29        Wildtype VHH + A14P + R39Q +                1207            58.64
                           K83R+T91Y+Q108L+ 1
                           additional A at C-terminus (Al 14)
      SEQ IDNO: 30         Wildtype VHH + A14P + R39Q +               3301            -13.09
                           K83R + T91Y + Q108L + 3 A's at
                           C-terminus (Al 14+A1 15+A1 16)
10 Example 6: Influence of the addition of amino acids to the C-terminus of anti-OX40L
   Nanobodies on their OX40L blocking potency.
           This example demonstrates that the C-terminal extension has no influence on activity
   or blocking potency of the Nanobodies.

                                                    69
           The in vitro potency of the trivalent bispecific sequence optimized anti-OX40L
   Nanobody Nb 3.16 (SEQ ID NO: 31) was compared with the potency of the corresponding
   Nanobody containing one additional Ala at its C-terminus Nb 3.17 (SEQ ID NO: 32).
           A first assay, the T-cell activation assay, was performed as follows. PBMCs were
 5 isolated from buffy coats (Red Cross, Ghent, Belgium) from healthy donors using Ficoll
   Paque Plus reagent (GE Healthcare) and washed using RPMI 1640 complete medium
   (RPMIl 640 + GlutaMAX + 25 mM HEPES + 10% fetal bovine serum + 1%
   Penicillin/Streptomycin; Invitrogen). The PBMC's (lxi05 cells/well) were stimulated with
   phytohaemagglutinin (PHA-L; final concentration 0.6pg/ml) before the addition to lx10 4
10 hOX40L expressing CHO cells (irradiated with gamma scintillator at 3000 RAD; UZ Gent,
   Belgium) and dilution series of anti-OX40L Nanobodies RPMI 1640 complete medium and
   incubated for 22 hours at 37 0 C in CO 2 incubator. Production of IL2 by the PBMCs was
   measured in ELISA. Wells of a Maxisorp plate were coated overnight at 4*C with anti-human
   IL2 monoclonal antibody (BD Biosciences). After washing and blocking of the coated wells,
15 a % dilution of cell supernatant was added. As a standard,    2 serial dilutions of recombinant
   human IL2 (BD Biosciences) starting from 2000 pg/ml were included. Detection was done
   using biotinylated anti-human IL2 monoclonal antibody (BD Biosciences) and HRP
   conjugated streptavidin (Thermo Scientific) and esTMB (SDT Reagents). The reaction was
   stopped with 1N HCl and the OD was read at 450 nm. As expected, the potency of the
20 trivalent bispecific sequence optimized Nanobody Nb 3.17 (IC50 = 0.13nM, 95% CI = 0.098
   0.17nM) was comparable to that of Nb 3.16 (IC50= 0.1OnM, 95% CI = 0.071-0.15 nM).
           In a second ELISA-based competition assay, a dilution series (from 1.5gM to 0.083
   pM) of the Nanobodies were pre-incubated overnight at room temperature with 1OOng/ml
   human OX40/Fc (R&D Systems) and lOng/ml biotinylated human OX40L (R&D Systems;
25 in-house biotinylated as described in Example 1) in PBS +0.1% BSA +0.01% Tween-20.
   Next, the samples were incubated on Maxisorp plates coated with 1Oug/ml anti-human Fc
   Nanobody (in-house generated) and blocked with PBS + 1% BSA +0.1% Tween-20. Bound
   human OX40/Fc was detected using HRP conjugated streptavidin (Thermo Scientific) and
   sTMB (SDT Reagents). The reaction was stopped with 1N HCl and the OD was read at 450
30 nm. In accordance with the cell-based assay, the potency of the trivalent bispecific sequence
   optimized Nanobodies Nb 3.17 (IC50= 0.178nM, 95% CI = 0.152-0.200nM) was comparable
   to that of Nb 3.16 (IC50 = 0.179nM, 95% CI = 0.149-0.215nM).

                                                  70
   Example 7: generation of monoclonal antibody 21-4-3.
           Two groups of different mice strains (BALB/c and NMRI - three mice each) were
   intraperitoneally immunized with the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID NO:98 in WO
   2006/122825, in a water-in-oil emulsion of equal volumes of antigen and Freund's complete
 5 or incomplete adjuvant) over a period of 39 days, with boosting until suitable antiserum titers
   were obtained.
            After asphyxiation of the stimulated mice in C02, the spleens were aseptically
   removed and a single cell suspension of pooled spleens was prepared. Spleen cells and
   myeloma cells were washed several times with DMEM and fused in the presence of 1 ml
10 50% (w/v) PEG 3350 (ratio spleen cells to SP2/0 3:1). For fusion was used the myeloma cell
   line SP2/0-Agl4 from German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ
   GmbH, Braunschweig). This cell line is a hybrid between BALB/c spleen cells and the
   myeloma cell line P3x63Ag8. The so produced hybridomas were resuspended in CGM
   containing 20% FCS and aminopterin (HAT medium) and plated out (140 gi/well) into eight
15 96-well tissue culture flat-bottom plates (Corning-Costar) containing 140 gl/well CGM (20%
   FCS) with peritoneal excudate cells as feeder cells. The plates were incubated for 10 days in
   a complete growth medium (CGM) containing DMEM with supplements 2-mercaptoethanol,
   L-Glutamin, Stable Glutamin, HT and non essential amino acids (in concentrations
   recommended by the supplier) and FCS at different concentrations (10%, 15% or 20%).
20 During this period cells were fed two times with HAT medium. The cell culture supernatants
   from hybridoma cells usually contained 1 to 20 ptg/ml antibody, which were tested in a
   binding ELISA to confirm binding to the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID NO:98 in WO
   2006/122825.
           Cells from positive IgG producing wells were transferred into wells of 48 well plates
25 and cultivated for 2- 4 days (depending on growth characteristic of cells). Binding ELISA's
   on ALX081 and human/cynomolgus IgG were carried out in order to exclude the unspecific
   binders. Hybridoma cells expressing binders specific for the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID
   NO:98 in WO 2006/122825 were twice cloned using limited dilution. After fusion and
   rescreening 7 primary cultures producing antibodies against ALX-081 were identified. All
30 these primary cultures produced antibodies not cross-reacting with human or cynomolgus
   IgG. The primary cultures were recloned (twice).
           Clone 21-4 (one of the clones that stably produced antibodies against ALX-081 after
   the second cloning) was given the designation "ABHOO 15" and was deposited with the

                                                   71
   Belgian Coordinated Collections of Micro-organisms (BCCM) in Ghent, Belgium on June 4,
   2012 under accession number LMBP-9680-CB. The mouse monoclonal produced by
   ABH00 15 was called 21-4-3: isotype determination for 21-4-3 showed an IgG 1 heavy chain
   and a kappa light chain, which were sequenced (see SEQ ID NO's: 35 and 36, respectively).
 5 21-4-3 was shown to bind to the C-terminal region of the Nanobody construct of SEQ ID
   NO:98 in WO 2006/122825 (data not shown).
   Example 8: binding of 21-4 to an ISV is predictive of the tendency of an ISV to undergo
   aspecific protein interference
10         This Example together with the following Example 9 demonstrates that binding of the
   monoclonal 21-4 to an ISV can be used to predict (within the degrees of certainty indicated in
   this Example) of whether a given ISV will have a tendency to undergo aspecific protein
   interference (e.g. in an ADA assay).
           This Example 8 in particular shows that 21-4 can be used to predict whether certain
15 proposed modifications to a given ISV (such as adding one or more amino acid residues to
   the C-terminus of an ISV and/or substituting one or more amino acid substitutions within the
   C-terminal region of an ISV) will lead to a reduction of the tendency of said ISV to undergo
   aspecific protein interference.
           In short, a set of 53 different Nanobodies and Nanobody constructs (see Figure 9 and
20 SEQ ID NO's: 38 to 89) were tested for binding by monoclonal 21-4-3. The same
   Nanobodies and Nanobody constructs were also tested for binding by purified preparations of
   interference factor(s) obtained from three different human donors (referred to herein as
   "Donor 8", "Donor 19" and "Donor 30"), to see if there was any correlation between binding
   by 21-4 and by the purified interference factors.
25         It was established that binding of an ISV by 21-4 can indeed be used to predict
   binding of the same ISV's by the interference factor(s) (within the overall degree of
   confidence provided by the data set out herein).
           To demonstrate this, as detailed by the experimental data set out below, the binding of
   the 53 Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs (as listed in Figure 9; see SEQ ID NO's: 38 to 89)
30 by 21-4 was measured using a Biacore T100 (according to the protocol set out below) and
   was compared to binding of a reference Nanobody or construct (also listed in Figure 9), as
   measured using the same Biacore instrument and the same protocol. The results are shown in
   Table X below.

    I4.
        ON ~0            0                            0
                             -g4 -'   -'A  44       -
  o                -         o              00
              CCPI
                 00
?ao
0
                     ~~~~t U     0~~ So~~0 07  C0 0 0 0 0

          o   00
  *00
            000
S     00z
                 ~~00

0~0     a0 0   U
             000
                    00 0
    00           00
    000

                                0) 0 0  ))
0   C0 No 00  NQ     1 00ql n0
                                     0 )0
                                       000
  CM0                  0     c1            00
M   - CM CM    M CM C                         00
           V00

                        C) 0
          00         Nf              en C 00
00        CN         00           mW
      N7
   0ON00                   Nc                   V)
00         00
              -4C-4
      00                                     m
         000~              00 000
                 -E-                          t  V- 00

                                   0                     0
         o                 0     v      ,v              -0~          0
        V         1-4 1-4    1-4     I-     -414
                                                                     0 0
         n     0
           OW)00                                              i0f)
  0f           10                                 It
               00          N     Cto    cc)                    tI)     I
                      00)        000
               0                              0-0           0        0
04   V~       00)         N0
                          00     20     0
                                        H           oo0
                                                              0"
                                                                  00   0
                                                                         "~

                                                    78
            For each of the 53 Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs tested, the reference was
   chosen such that compared to the reference, the tested Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs
   either had one or more additional amino acid residues at the C-terminal end (which were
   added in order to test the effect of such addition on protein interference, and in particular in
   order to reduce said interference) and/or one or more mutations within the C-terminal region
    (for example, as a result of humanization compared to the reference).
            The results were expressed as a percentage reduction in binding (measured as RU
   units) for the given Nanobody versus the binding of the reference (also measured in RU units
   - for example, if the measured binding level (RU) of the reference Nanobody was 276 and the
10 binding level of the given Nanobody (also in RU) was 9, then the reduction in binding level
   was to a level of [9 RU/276 RU] x 100% = 3%), which means a reduction of 97% compared
   to the reference (100%).
            Similarly, binding of the purified interference factor(s) from each of the three donors
   to each of the 53 Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs was measured using the same Biacore
   instrument and compared to binding of the purified interference factor(s) to the same
   reference Nanobody or construct. The results were similarly expressed as a percentage
   reduction in binding of the interference factor to the given Nanobody or Nanobody construct
   vs the reference.
            It was found that for essentially all Nanobody or Nanobody construct in which one or
20 more amino acid residues had been added to the C-terminal end compared to the reference,
   that the binding of the interference factor(s) was dramatically reduced. This again confirms
   that adding one or more amino acid residues to the C-terminal end of an ISV (VTVSS) can
   reduce aspecific protein interference in an ADA assay. It was also found that in the majority
   of cases, only making substitutions within the C-terminal region (i.e. without adding one or
   more amino acid residues to the C-terminus) compared to the reference often did not have a
   similar dramatic impact on the binding of the interference factor(s).
            The data was then further analysed to determine whether a reduction in binding by 21
   4 compared to the reference was in any way correlated with a reduction in binding by each of
   the three different preparations of purified interference factor compared to the reference. Such
30 correlations were found.
            For example, it was found that of the 54 Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs tested,
   36 showed a reduction in binding by 21-4 of more than 70% compared to their respective

                                                     79
   reference sequence (with most of these 36 having one or more additional amino acid residues
   at the C-terminus, in some cases in combination with substitutions within the C-terminal
   region). Of these 36, 32 also showed reduction in binding by the interference factor(s)
   compared to the reference of more than 50% (and in a large number of cases, in particular for
   Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs with one or more amino acid residues added at the C
   terminus, the reduction was far greater than 50%, such as more than 70% or even more than
   90%, see the data given in the Table X). This demonstrates that in 32 out of 36 cases (i.e.
   89%), a reduction in binding by 21-4 of more than 70% (compared to the reference = 100%)
   is predictive for a reduction in binding by the interference factors of more than 50%
10 (compared to the same reference). For clarity, in each case, the reduction was calculated as
   100% - [the percentage given in the Tables below for the level of reduction achieved with the
   Nanobody tested].
            Similarly, it was found that of the 53 Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs tested, 33
   showed a reduction in binding by 21-4 of more than 90% compared to their respective
   reference sequence (again, with most of these 33 having one or more additional amino acid
   residues at the C-terminus, in some cases in combination with substitutions within the C
   terminal region). Of these 33, 32 also showed reduction in binding by the interference
   factor(s) compared to their respective reference sequence of more than 50%. This
   demonstrates that in 32 out of 33 cases (i.e. 97%), a reduction in binding by 21-4 of more
20 than 90% (compared to the reference) is predictive for a reduction in binding by the
   interference factors of more than 50% (compared to the same reference).
            It should also be noted that such a reduction in binding of the interference factor(s) by
   more than 50% (as evidenced by a reduction of binding by 21-4 of more than 70%) means
   that such interference factor(s) essentially no longer interfere(s) with an ADA assay for the
   ISV in question: experimental confirmation using an ADA assay showed that when the
   binding by the interference factor(s) is reduced by more than 45%, that no significant
   influence of the presence of the interference factor(s) on the ADA assay could be observed.
   In this respect, it will be also be clear to the skilled person that this will even more so be the
   case when the binding by interference factor(s) is reduced to an extent far greater than 50%
30 (such as by more than 70% or even more than 90%), as is observed in some cases (see again
   the data presented herein).

                                                    80
           In fact, it has been found that a reduction of more than 45% of binding by 21-4 is
   indicative of a reduction of binding by interference factors of more than 45%, which as
   mentioned means that the interference factor(s) no longer interfere with the ADA assay.
           Moreover, the data presented herein on the correlation between (reduction in) binding
   by 21-4 and (reduction in) binding by interference factor also allowed the present inventors to
   set an absolute value for the binding by 21-4 below which it can be expected (within the
   confidence provided by the data set out in this Example 8) that an ISV or ISV-based construct
   will not be susceptible to binding by interference factor(s) in a way that could interfere with
   an ADA assay. As set out in the following Example 9, this value is 500 RU (determined and
10 calculated as set out in Example 9).
           Monoclonal 21-4 was purified from the culture medium of the hybridoma obtained in
   Example 7 above, as follows: Hybridoma cells secreting the monoclonal antibody 21-4-3
   were cultured in spinner flasks in serum free medium (CD Hybridoma, Gibco, supplemented
   with 8mM L-glutamine (Invitrogen) and 1xcholesterol (250x cholersterol lipid concentrate,
   Gibco)) at a volume of 100mL or 500mL. The cleared supernatant was filtered, and the
   murine IgGl captured on a ProteinA column (HiTrap MabSelect SuRe, 5mL, GE Healthcare)
   at a reduced flow rate of 2mL/min. Bound antibody was eluted in 0.1M citrate buffer pH3.0,
   and elution fractions (of 5mL) directly neutralized with 1mL of 1M TRIS pH9. Purity of the
   antibody was verified by reducing and non-reducing SDS-PAGE.
20         The purified preparations of interference factor(s) from Donors 8 and 19 were
   obtained from serum samples from said donors by means of affinity purification, essentially
   as described in Example 2A. The interference factor(s) from Donor 30 were obtained from a
   serum sample of Donor 30, essentially as described in Example 2B.
           To determine the binding of 21-4 to each of the Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs,
   the protocol described in Example 9 was used.
           The binding of the interference factors from the three donors to each of the
   Nanobodies or Nanobody constructs was determined using a Biacore T100 essentially as
   described in Example 3, using the interference factor from each of the donors 8, 19 and 30,
   directly immobilized on a CM5 sensor chip.
30
   Example 9: protocol for predicting whether an ISV will have a tendency to undergo
   aspecific protein interference (using monoclonal 21-4).

                                                    81
           Binding measurements were performed using a Biacore T100 using a CM5 T120416
   sensor chip, with running buffer HBS-EP+, 25'C. 21-4 was captured via immobilized rabbit
   anti-mouse IgG, as it was found that directly immobilized mAb 21-4-3 surface could not
   efficiently be regenerated. The anti-mouse IgG used was a polyclonal rabbit anti-mouse IgG
   antibodies reacting with all IgG subclasses, IgA and IgM (GE Healthcare; Cat#BR-1008-38;
   Lotl#10056316). Immobilisation of the anti-mouse IgG was performed using manual amine
   coupling using a 7 minute injection of EDC/NHS for activation and a 7 minute injection of
    IM ethanolamine HCl pH 8.5 for deactivation (Biacore, amine coupling kit). Binding
10 conditions are listed in Table XI. Based on the immobilization level and MW of the proteins,
   the theoretical Rmiax for mAb21-4-3 binding to the immobilized anti-mouse IgG was
    ~13000RU (when one mAb2l-4-3 molecule is binding to one anti-mouse IgG molecule).
   Table XI
   Protein                Conc.     Contact      Flow rate    Immobilization      Immobilization
                          (sg/ml)   time (s)     (pl/min)     buffer               level (RU)
   Anti-mouse IgG         30        420          5            10mM acetate pH5.0  13028
   Anti-mouse IgG         30        420          5            10mM acetate pH5.0  13318
                                    24
           The conditions used for the binding experiment (Biacore T100) using 21-4
   immobilized in the manner are given in Table XII. The anti-mouse IgG surface could
20 successfully be regenerated after capture of mAb21-4-3 and injection of all samples (with a
   limited increase for baseline level after each regeneration).

                                               82
Table XII
       u                                                             ]
Flwpath                         4
Flow rate (.41/min)              10
Contact time (s)                 180
Concentration                    10
Binding and dissociation
Flow path                      1 3,4
Flow rate (ptl/min)             45
Sample contact time (s)          120
Sample concentration (nM)        500
Dissociation time (s)     ____  600   ___         ______
Regenerationi          ____               ____           _         _
Flow path                        3,4
Flow rate (pl/min)               10
Regeneration contact time (s)   180
Regeneration buffer               OmM Glycine-HCl pH1.7
Stabilization time (s)          120
  .. Then   . Else              If after regeneration >20RU on Fc4
                                Else exit cycle
Re eneration2
Flow path                       3,4
Flow rate (Il/min)               10
Regeneration contact time (s)   120
Regeneration buffer              10mM Glycine-HCl pH1.7
Stabilization time (s)           120

                                                     83
            The above protocol was used to generate the 21-4 binding data set out in Table X.
   When the absolute values for RU were considered (after adjusting the measured RU value for
   the molecular weight of the ISV, protein or polypeptide according to the formula ([RU
   measured]/[MW of the protein] x 106), it was found that the Nanobodies and Nanobody
   constructs mentioned in Table X that had an added alanine residue and that showed >90%
   reduction in binding to both 21-4 as well as interference factors, generally provided RU
   values of between 30RU and 400RU (with the corresponding reference Nanobodies or
   polypeptides - as listed in Figure 9 - having RU values of more than 1000, usually more than
   1500, and often more than 2000).
10          Based on this, it was considered that an (adjusted) RU value of less than 500 in this
   assay would be clearly indicative of an ISV(or a protein or polypeptide that comprises as
   least one IS, as described herein) that will (essentially) not be bound by interference factors in
   a manner that would interfere with an ADA assay.
            The entire contents of all of the references (including literature references, issued
   patents, published patent applications, and co-pending patent applications) cited throughout
   this application are hereby expressly incorporated by reference, in particular for the teaching
   that is referenced herein.
20

                                                    84
                                              CLAIMS
   1. Immunoglobulin single variable domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an ISV that
      comprises a VH sequence (i.e. other than a Nanobody) or that is derived from a VH
      sequence, which ISV has a C-terminal end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which:
      -    n = 1, 2 or 3 (and preferably 1 or 2) in which each X = Ala or Gly; or
      -    n = 1, 2 or 3 (and preferably 1 or 2) in which each X = Ala; or
      -    n = 1, 2 or 3 (and preferably 1 or 2) in which each X = Gly; or
      -    n = 2 or 3 in which at least one X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino acid residue
           X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but preferably
10         being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile); or
      -    n = 2 or 3 in which all but one X = Ala or Gly (with the remaining amino acid residue
           X being independently chosen from any naturally occurring amino acid but preferably
           being independently chosen from Val, Leu and/or Ile);
           or a protein or polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a
           Nanobody) at its C-terminal end.
   2. Immunoglobulin single variable domain (ISV), protein or polypeptide according to claim
      1, in which:
      -    n = 1, 2 or 3 (and preferably 1 or 2) in which each X = Ala or Gly; or
20    -    n = 1, 2 or 3 (and preferably 1 or 2) in which each X = Ala; or
      -    n = 1,2 or 3 (and preferably 1 or 2) in which each X = Gly
   3. Immunoglobulin single variable domain (ISV), protein or polypeptide according to claim
      1, in which X is not cysteine.
   4. Immunoglobulin single variable domain (ISV), which is either a Nanobody or an ISV that
      comprises a VH sequence or that is derived from a VH sequence, which ISV has a C
      terminal end of the sequence VTVSS(X)n, in which n is 1 to 10, preferably 1 to 5, such
      as 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 (and preferably 1 or 2, such as 1), and in which each X is an (preferably
30    naturally occurring) amino acid residue that is independently chosen (and preferably

                                                     85
       independently chosen from the group consisting of alanine (A), glycine (G), valine (V),
       leucine (L) or isoleucine (I), with the proviso that X is not cysteine; or a protein or
       polypeptide which contains such an ISV (and preferably such a Nanobody) at its C
       terminal end.
   5. Immunoglobulin single variable domain (ISV), protein or polypeptide according to any of
       claims 1-4, which in which said (C-terminal) ISV is a Nanobody.
   6. Immunoglobulin single variable domain (ISV), protein or polypeptide according to any of
       claims 1-5 which has an RU value for binding by 21-4 of less than 500, as determined
10     using Biacore according to the protocol set out in Example 9, and after adjusting the
       measured RU value for the molecular weight of the ISV, protein or polypeptide according
       to the formula ([RU measured]/[MW of the protein] x 106),
   7. Method for predicting whether an ISV or protein or polypeptide comprising at least one
       ISV will give rise to protein interference in an immunoassay such as an ADA assay, said
       method comprising performing an immunoassay that at least comprises the steps of:
            (i) contacting said ISV or protein/polypeptide with an antibody that has been
                 obtained from a human subject and that has been selected/isolated based on its
                 ability to recognize and/or bind to the C-terminal end of said ISV; and
            (ii) determining whether said ISV, protein or polypeptide is bound by said antibody in
20               said immunoassay.
   8. Method according to claim 7, in which the ISV is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV (i.e.
       other than a Nanobody) that is a VH domain or that comprises a VH domain.
   9. Method according to claim 7 or 8, in which the ISV is a Nanobody.
   10. Method according to any of claims 7 or 9, in which the protein or polypeptide has said
       ISV at its C-terminal end.

                                                    86
   11. Method according to any of claims 7 to 10, in which the fact that the ISV, protein or
       polypeptide binds to said antibod in step (ii) means that the ISV, protein or polypeptide
       can give rise to (or has a high or increased risk of giving rise to) such protein interference.
   12. Method according to any of claims 7 or 11, in which the antibody is a polyclonal
       antibody.
   13. Method according to any of claims 7 to 12, in which the antibody is a polyclonal antibody
       that has been obtained, starting from a biological sample that has been obtained from a
10     human subject and that is suitable as a starting material for obtaining polyclonal
       antibodies, by a method that comprises at least one step of (immuno)affinity
       chromatography in which affinity matrix is used that carries the ISV or protein or
       polypeptide comprising at least one ISV and/or in which the ISV or protein or
       polypeptide comprising at least one ISV is used as the affinity moiety or antigen, and
       optionally one or more further steps for isolating and/or purifying a polyclonal antibody
       from said sample (performed either before and/or after said affinity step).
   14. Method according to claim 13, in which the ISV or protein or polypeptide comprising at
       least one ISV that is carried on the affinity matrix and/or that is used as the affinity
20     moiety or antigen is an ISV or protein or polypeptide comprising at least one ISV that
       ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33), or in
       which the ISV or protein or polypeptide comprising at least one ISV that is carried on the
       affinity matrix and/or that is used as the affinity moiety or antigen has at its C-terminal
       end an ISV or Nanobody that ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence
       VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33).
   15. Method according to claim 13 or 14, in which that the ISV or protein or polypeptide
       comprising at least one ISV that is carried on the affinity matrix and/or that is used as the
       affinity moiety or antigen is an ISV or protein or polypeptide comprising at least one ISV,
30     that ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33)
       and that has a proline residue on position 14; or in which the ISV or protein or
       polypeptide comprising at least one ISV that is carried on the affinity matrix and/or that is

                                                    87
       used as the affinity moiety or antigen has at its C-tenninal end is an ISV or protein or
       polypeptide comprising at least one ISV that ends at its C-terminal end with the amino
       acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and that has a proline residue on position 14.
   16. Method according to any of claims 13 to 15, in which that the ISV or Nanobody that is
       carried on the affinity matrix and/or that is used as the affinity moiety or antigen is a
       sequence-optimized and/or humanized Nanobody (such as a sequence-optimized and/or
       humanized VHH or a camelized VH, such as a camelized human VH); or in which the
       ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug that is carried on the affinity matrix and/or that
10     is used as the affinity moiety or antigen has at its C-terminal end an ISV or Nanobody
       that is a sequence-optimized and/or humanized Nanobody (such as a sequence-optimized
       and/or humanized VHH or a camelized VH, such as a camelized human VH).
   17. Method according to any of claims 15 or 16, in which that the ISV or Nanobody that is
       carried on the affinity matrix and/or that is used as the affinity moiety or antigen is a
       sequence-optimized and/or humanized Nanobody that ends at its C-terminal end with the
       amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and that has a proline residue on position
       14 which has been introduced as part of the humanization and/or sequence optimization
       of the corresponding naturally occurring VHH; or in which the ISV-based drug or
20     Nanobody-based drug that is carried on the affinity matrix and/or that is used as the
       affinity moiety or antigen has at its C-terminal end a sequence-optimized and/or
       humanized Nanobody that ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence
       VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and that has a proline residue on position 14 which has been
       introduced as part of the humanization and/or sequence optimization of the corresponding
       naturally occurring VHH.
   18. Method according to any of claims 7 to 11, in which the antibody is a monoclonal
       antibody.
30 19. Method according to any of claims 7 to 11 or 18, in which the antibody is a polyclonal
       antibody that has been obtained, starting from a biological sample that has been obtained
       from a human subject and that is suitable as a starting material for obtaining monoclonal,

                                                   88
       by a method that comprises at least one screening or selection step in which an ISV,
       Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug is used for screening and selecting a
       monoclonal antibody that binds to said ISV, Nanobody, ISV-based drug or Nanobody
       based drug (and in particular to the C-terminal end of the same), and optionally one or
       more further steps for isolating and/or purifying a monoclonal antibody from said sample
       (performed either before and/or after said screening and/or selection step(s)).
   20. Method according to claim 19, in which the ISV or Nanobody that is used in the
       screening or selection step ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence
10     VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33), or in which the ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug that
       is used in the screening or selection step has at its C-terminal end an ISV or Nanobody
       that ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33).
   21. Method according to claim 19 or 20, in which the ISV or Nanobody that is used in the
       screening or selection step ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence
       VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and that has a proline residue at position 14, or in which the
       ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug that is used in the screening or selection step
       has at its C-terminal end an ISV or Nanobody that ends at its C-terminal end with the
       amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and that has a proline residue at position
20      14.
   22. Method according to claim 19, 20 or 21, in which the ISV or Nanobody that is used in the
       screening or selection step is a sequence-optimized and/or humanized Nanobody (such as
       a sequence-optimized and/or humanized VHH or a camelized VH, such as a camelized
       human VH); or in which the ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug that is used in the
       screening or selection step has at its C-terminal end an ISV or Nanobody that is a
       sequence-optimized and/or humanized Nanobody (such as a sequence-optimized and/or
       humanized VHH or a camelized VH, such as a camelized human VH).
30 23. Method according to any of claims 21 to 22, in which the ISV or Nanobody that is used in
       the screening or selection step is a sequence-optimized and/or humanized Nanobody that
       ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and

                                                    89
       that has a proline residue on position 14 which has been introduced as part of the
       humanization and/or sequence optimization of the corresponding naturally occurring
       VHH; or in which the ISV-based drug or Nanobody-based drug that is used in the
       screening or selection step has at its C-terminal end a sequence-optimized and/or
       humanized Nanobody that ends at its C-terminal end with the amino acid sequence
       VTVSS (SEQ ID NO:33) and that has a proline residue on position 14 which has been
       introduced as part of the humanization and/or sequence optimization of the corresponding
       naturally occurring VHH.
10 24. Method that can be used to predict whether an ISV or protein or polypeptide comprising
       at least one ISV will give rise to (or has high or increased tendency to give rise to) protein
       interference in an immunoassay (and/or to predict whether said ISV or protein or
       polypeptide comprising at least one ISV will be bound by interference factor(s) present in
       the blood or serum of a human being), said method comprising performing an
       immunoassay that at least comprises the steps of:
       (i)      contacting said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based drug) with
                the monoclonal antibody 21-4 (i.e. used as the "analyticalantibody"); and
       (ii)     determining whether said ISV or Nanobody (or ISV-based or Nanobody-based
                drug) is bound by the monoclonal antibody 21-4 in said immunoassay.
20
   25. Method according to claim 24, in which the ISV is either a Nanobody or an(other) ISV
       (i.e. other than a Nanobody) that is a VH domain or that comprises a VH domain.
   26. Method according to claim 24 or 25, in which the ISV is a Nanobody.
   27. Method according to any of claims 24 to 27, in which the protein or polypeptide has said
       ISV at its C-terminal end.
   28. Method according to any of claims 24 to 27, that is performed according to the protocol
30     said out in Example 9.

                                                     90
   29. Pharmaceutical composition that comprises an ISV, protein or polypeptide according to
       any of claims 1-6, and at least one suitable carrier, diluent or excipient.
   30. Pharmaceutical composition according to claim 29, in which:
       -    said composition, ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended for treatment of a chronic
            disease in a human being, and/or
       -    said ISV, protein, polypeptide is intended to be present in the circulation of the
            subject (i.e. at pharmacologically active levels) to which it is administered (i.e. at a
            therapeutically active dose) for at least a period of one week, preferably at least two
10          weeks, such as at least a months; and/or
       -    said ISV, protein, polypeptide is such that it has a half-life (preferably expressed as
            tl/2-beta) in a human subject of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, and up to
            10 days or more; and/or such
       -    said ISV, protein, polypeptide or pharmaceutical composition is intended to be
            administered to a human being as two or more doses that are administered over a
           period of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, for example at least two weeks or
            at least one month, or even longer (i.e. at least 3 months, at least 6 months or at least
            one year), or even chronically administered.
20 31. ISV, protein or polypeptide according to any of claims 1-6 for use in therapy of a disease
       in a human being.
   32. ISV, protein or polypeptide according to any of claims 1-6 and/or 31, in which:
       -    said ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended for treatment of a chronic disease in a
           human being, and/or
       -   said ISV, protein, polypeptide is intended to be present in the circulation of the
           subject (i.e. at pharmacologically active levels) to which it is administered (i.e. at a
           therapeutically active dose) for at least a period of one week, preferably at least two
           weeks, such as at least a months; and/or
30     -   said ISV, protein, polypeptide is such that it has a half-life (preferably expressed as
           tl/2-beta) in a human subject of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, and up to
            10 days or more; and/or such

                                                       91
         -    said ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended to be administered to a human being as
              two or more doses that are administered over a period of at least 3 days, such as at
              least one week, for example at least two weeks or at least one month, or even longer
              (i.e. at least 3 months, at least 6 months or at least one year), or even chronically
              administered.
    33. Use of an ISV or a protein or polypeptide according to any of claims 1-6, 31 or 32 in the
         preparation of a pharmaceutical composition, and in particular in the preparation of a
         pharmaceutical composition according to claim 29 or 30.
10
    34. Use according to claim 33, in which
   -     said ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended for treatment of a chronic disease in a human
        being, and/or
   -     said ISV, protein, polypeptide is intended to be present in the circulation of the subject
         (i.e. at pharmacologically active levels) to which it is administered (i.e. at a
        therapeutically active dose) for at least a period of one week, preferably at least two
        weeks, such as at least a months; and/or
   -    said ISV, protein, polypeptide is such that it has a half-life (preferably expressed as tl/2
        beta) in a human subject of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, and up to 10 days or
20      more; and/or such
   -    said ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended to be administered to a human being as two
        or more doses that are administered over a period of at least 3 days, such as at least one
        week, for example at least two weeks or at least one month, or even longer (i.e. at least 3
        months, at least 6 months or at least one year), or even chronically administered.
   35. Method of treatment which comprises administering to a human subject (e.g to a patient
        in need of such treatment) an ISV or a protein or polypeptide according to one of claims
        1-6, 31 or 32 or a pharmaceutical composition according to claim 29 or 30.
30 36. Method of treatment according to claim 35, in which:
   -    said pharmaceutical composition, ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended for treatment of
        a chronic disease in a human being, and/or

                                                  92
   - said ISV, protein, polypeptide is intended to be present in the circulation of the subject
     (i.e. at pharmacologically active levels) to which it is administered (i.e. at a
     therapeutically active dose) for at least a period of one week, preferably at least two
     weeks, such as at least a months; and/or
   - said ISV, protein, polypeptide is such that it has a half-life (preferably expressed as tl/2
     beta) in a human subject of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, and up to 10 days or
     more; and/or such
   - said pharmaceutical composition, ISV, protein or polypeptide is intended to be
     administered to a human being as two or more doses that are administered over a period
10   of at least 3 days, such as at least one week, for example at least two weeks or at least one
     month, or even longer (i.e. at least 3 months, at least 6 months or at least one year), or
     even chronically administered.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                                               SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>   Abl y nx N. V.
              <120>   TECHNI QUES FOR PREDI CTI NG, DETECTI NG AND REDUCI NG ASPECI FI C
                      PROTEI N I NTERFERENCE I N ASSAYS I NVOLVI NG I MMUNOGLOBULI N SI NGLE
                      VARI ABLE DOMAI NS
              <130>   P011- 08- PCT
              <160>   89
<removed-apn>
              <170>   Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   270
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   1
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Al a Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val
                       35                     40                       45
              Ser Gl y I l e Ly s Ser Ser Gl y As p Ser Thr Ar g Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Val
                  50                      55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ly s Ser Ar g Val Ser Ar g Thr Gl y Leu Ty r Thr Ty r As p As n Ar g
                            100                   105                    110
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y
                        115                  120                   125
              Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val
                   130                     135                     140
              Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu
              145                   150                    155                     160
              Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met
                                165                     170                    175
              Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a
                            180                      185                     190
                                                              Page 1

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p
                        195                    200                   205
              Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr
                  210                    215                     220
              Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r
              225                   230                    235                    240
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u
                                  245                     250                     255
              Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                             260                    265                 270
              <210>   2
              <211>   385
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   2
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Pr o Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                       35                      40                       45
              Ser Ser I l e Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Al a As p Ser Val
                  50                     55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Al a Ty r I l e Ar g Pr o As p Thr Ty r Leu Ser Ar g As p Ty r Ar g Ly s
                             100                      105                    110
              Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                      120                 125
              Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y
                   130                     135                   140
              Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser
              145                    150                    155                    160
                                                           Page 2

                                                    eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o
                               165                  170                    175
              Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p
                             180                   185                    190
              Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p
                      195                    200                    205
<removed-apn>
              As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u
                   210                   215                    220
              As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser
              225                    230                      235                   240
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y
                                245                 250                     255
              Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n
                            260                   265                     270
              Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe
                        275                   280                    285
              Ser Ser Ty r Pr o Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g
                  290                    295                     300
              Gl u Phe Val Ser Ser I l e Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Al a
              305                  310                     315                    320
              As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n
                                325                     330                     335
              Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val
                           340                   345                     350
              Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ty r I l e Ar g Pr o As p Thr Ty r Leu Ser Ar g As p
                        355                       360                     365
              Ty r Ar g Ly s Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser
                   370                      375                     380
              Ser
              385
              <210>   3
              <211>   117
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   3
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y
                                                        Page 3

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              1                  5                      10                       15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Thr Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                      45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val Ly s
<removed-apn>
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Gl n Met As n As n Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                 85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   4
              <211>   140
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   4
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Thr Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                      45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Gl n Met As n As n Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                 85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Al a Al a Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u Gl u
                      115                   120                     125
                                                       Page 4

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              As p Leu As n Gl y Al a Al a Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
                   130                     135                      140
              <210>   5
              <211>   117
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   5
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                       45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   6
              <211>   125
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   6
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
                                                            Page 5

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                        75                     80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
<removed-apn>
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Al a
                        115                   120                  125
              <210>   7
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   7
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                        115                   120
              <210>   8
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   8
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
                                                        Page 6

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
<removed-apn>
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   9
              <211>   125
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   9
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120                  125
              <210>   10
              <211>   126
              <212>   PRT
                                                           Page 7

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <213>   -
              <400>   10
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
<removed-apn>
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120                  125
              <210>   11
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   11
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                                                          Page 8

                                                           eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                            100                      105                     110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   12
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
<removed-apn>
              <400>   12
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   13
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   13
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
                                                             Page 9

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
<removed-apn>
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                    120
              <210>   14
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   14
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                    120
              <210>   15
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   15
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                                                        Page 10

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                            20                       25                      30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
<removed-apn>
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   16
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   16
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   17
              <211>   121
                                                           Page 11

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   17
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ser Val Phe Ly s I l e As n
                           20                     25                   30
<removed-apn>
              Val Met Al a Tr p Ty r Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                      35                       40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e I l e Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ser Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                        55                    60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe I l e Thr Thr Gl u Ser As p Ty r As p Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g Ty r Tr p Gl y
                            100                    105                     110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>   18
              <211>   146
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   18
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ser Val Phe Ly s I l e As n
                           20                     25                   30
              Val Met Al a Tr p Ty r Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                      35                       40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e I l e Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ser Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                        55                    60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a
                                85                      90                     95
                                                          Page 12

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Phe I l e Thr Thr Gl u Ser As p Ty r As p Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g Ty r Tr p Gl y
                            100                    105                     110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                 120                    125
              Gl y Ser Ar g As p Tr p As p Phe As p Val Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Pr o Val
                   130                     135                   140
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Gl y
              145
              <210>       19
              <211>       151
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       -
              <400>       19
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s I l e Al a Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Phe Ser Thr Ly s
                           20                      25                    30
              Ser Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                      35                      40                       45
              Al a Ar g I l e Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Thr Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val
                   50                       55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Al a I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Thr Tr p
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ly s Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Ar g Ser Thr Ty r I l e Gl y Ser As n Ty r Ty r Ar g Thr
                            100                    105                      110
              As n Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Thr Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                      120                   125
              Al a Al a Al a Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u Gl u As p Leu As n Gl y Al a
                   130                      135                     140
              Al a Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              145                      150
              <210>       20
              <211>       128
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       -
                                                          Page 13

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <400>   20
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s I l e Al a Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Phe Ser Thr Ly s
                           20                      25                    30
              Ser Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                      35                      40                       45
<removed-apn>
              Al a Ar g I l e Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Thr Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val
                   50                       55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Al a I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Thr Tr p
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ly s Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Ar g Ser Thr Ty r I l e Gl y Ser As n Ty r Ty r Ar g Thr
                            100                    105                      110
              As n Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Thr Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                      120                   125
              <210>   21
              <211>   151
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   21
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Phe Ser Thr Ly s
                           20                     25                    30
              Ser Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                      35                      40                       45
              Ser Ar g I l e Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Thr Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val
                  50                       55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Ar g Ser Thr Ty r I l e Gl y Ser As n Ty r Ty r Ar g Thr
                            100                    105                      110
                                                          Page 14

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              As n Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                      120                   125
              Al a Al a Al a Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u Gl u As p Leu As n Gl y Al a
                   130                      135                     140
              Al a Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              145                      150
<removed-apn>
              <210>   22
              <211>   128
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   22
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Phe Ser Thr Ly s
                           20                     25                    30
              Ser Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                      35                      40                       45
              Ser Ar g I l e Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Thr Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val
                  50                       55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Ar g Ser Thr Ty r I l e Gl y Ser As n Ty r Ty r Ar g Thr
                            100                    105                      110
              As n Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                      120                   125
              <210>   23
              <211>   134
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   23
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y
                                                         Page 15

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                       35                      40                        45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
<removed-apn>
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Thr Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                    110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                   130
              <210>   24
              <211>   134
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   24
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Thr Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                    110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                   130
                                                          Page 16

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <210>   25
              <211>   134
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   25
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Thr Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                    110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                   130
              <210>   26
              <211>   134
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   26
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
                                                          Page 17

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                        75                  80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Thr Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                    110
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                  130
              <210>   27
              <211>   134
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   27
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Ar g Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Thr Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                    110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                  130
              <210>   28
              <211>   134
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
                                                          Page 18

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <400>   28
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
<removed-apn>
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                     110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                  130
              <210>   29
              <211>   137
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   29
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
                                                          Page 19

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                     110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Al a Al a
                  130                 135
<removed-apn>
              <210>   30
              <211>   137
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   30
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser
                   50                     55                       60
              Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e
              65                      70                     75                     80
              Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu
                                 85                     90                     95
              Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y
                             100                    105                     110
              Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr
                       115                    120                     125
              Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Al a Al a
                  130                 135
              <210>   31
              <211>   367
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   31
              As p Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                                                       Page 20

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                            20                       25                      30
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                       45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
<removed-apn>
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val
                      115                   120                     125
              Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu
                   130                   135                    140
              Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met
              145                    150                   155                  160
              Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser
                                165                      170                    175
              I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y
                             180                   185                    190
              Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n
                       195                     200                    205
              Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e
                  210                    215                    220
              Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser
              225                   230                    235                 240
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u
                                 245                     250                   255
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s
                            260                    265                    270
              Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g
                        275                     280                    285
              Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y
                                                           Page 21

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                  290                      295                        300
              Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser
              305                     310                    315                     320
              I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g
                                  325                    330                   335
              Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr
<removed-apn>
                             340                    345                     350
              Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                       355                     360                  365
              <210>     32
              <211>     368
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     -
              <400>     32
              As p Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                       45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val
                      115                   120                     125
              Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu
                   130                   135                    140
              Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met
              145                    150                   155                  160
              Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser
                                165                      170                    175
                                                          Page 22

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y
                             180                   185                    190
              Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n
                       195                     200                    205
              Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e
                  210                    215                    220
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser
              225                   230                    235                 240
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u
                                 245                     250                   255
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s
                            260                    265                    270
              Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g
                        275                     280                    285
              Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y
                   290                      295                    300
              Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser
              305                     310                    315                     320
              I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g
                                  325                    330                   335
              Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr
                             340                    345                     350
              Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                       355                     360                  365
              <210>   33
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   33
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser
              1               5
              <210>   34
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <220>
                                                          Page 23

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <221>   MI SC_FEATURE
              <222>   ( 6) . . ( 6)
              <223>   X = a gr oup ( X) n, i n whi c h N = 1- 10, pr ef er abl y 1- 5 and X i s any
                      ami no ac i d.
              <400>   34
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Xaa
              1               5
              <210>   35
<removed-apn>
              <211>   218
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   35
              Gl n I l e Gl n Leu Val Gl n Ser Gl y Pr o Gl u Leu Ly s Ly s Pr o Gl y Gl u
              1                   5                      10                      15
              Thr Val Ly s I l e Ser Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Ty r Thr Phe Thr Al a Ty r
                           20                       25                    30
              Ser Met Hi s Tr p Val Ly s Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Ly s Tr p Met
                      35                      40                       45
              Gl y Tr p I l e As n Thr Val Thr Gl y Gl u Pr o Al a Ty r Al a As p As p Phe
                   50                      55                      60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Al a Phe Ser Leu Gl u Thr Ser Al a Ser Thr Al a Ty r
              65                      70                   75                    80
              Leu Gl n I l e Ser Ser Leu Ly s As n Gl u As p Thr Al a Thr Ty r Phe Cy s
                                 85                     90                     95
              Thr Ar g Gl y Leu I l e Hi s Phe Ty r Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Thr Leu
                            100                     105                      110
              Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Ser Val Ty r Pr o Leu Al a
                      115                   120                   125
              Pr o Gl y Ser Al a Al a Gl n Thr As n Ser Met Val Thr Leu Gl y Cy s Leu
                   130                     135                  140
              Val Ly s Gl y Ty r Phe Pr o Gl u Pr o Val Thr Val Thr Tr p As n Ser Gl y
              145                    150                    155                   160
              Ser Leu Ser Ser Gl y Val Hi s Thr Phe Pr o Al a Val Leu Gl n Ser As p
                              165                   170                    175
              Leu Ty r Thr Leu Ser Ser Ser Val Thr Val Pr o Ser Ser Thr Tr p Pr o
                           180                 185                  190
              Ser Gl u Thr Val Thr Cy s As n Val Al a Hi s Pr o Al a Ser Ser Thr Ly s
                       195                   200                     205
                                                       Page 24

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Val As p Ly s Ly s I l e Val Pr o Ar g As p Cy s
                  210                      215
              <210>   36
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   36
<removed-apn>
              As p I l e Gl n Met Thr Gl n Thr Pr o Ser Ser Leu Ser Al a Ser Leu Gl y
              1                   5                     10                   15
              Gl y Ar g Val Thr I l e Thr Cy s Ly s Al a Ser Gl n As p I l e Hi s As n Phe
                            20                      25                       30
              I l e Ser Tr p Ty r Gl n Hi s Ly s Pr o Gl y Ly s Val Pr o Ar g Leu I l e I l e
                        35                       40                      45
              Hi s As p Thr Ser Thr Leu Gl n Pr o Gl y I l e Pr o Ser Ar g Phe Ser Gl y
                   50                   55                        60
              Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ar g As p Ty r Ser Phe Ser I l e Thr As n Leu Gl u Pr o
              65                     70                    75                      80
              Gl u As p I l e Al a Thr Ty r Ty r Cy s Leu Hi s Ty r As p As n Leu Leu Ar g
                                   85                     90                      95
              Ser Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Ly s Leu Gl u I l e Ly s Ar g Al a As p Al a Al a
                           100                    105                       110
              Pr o Thr Val Ser I l e Phe Pr o Pr o Ser Ser Gl u Gl n Leu Thr Ser Gl y
                       115                    120                    125
              Gl y Al a Ser Val Val Cy s Phe Leu As n As n Phe Ty r Pr o Ly s As p I l e
                   130                   135                   140
              As n Val Ly s Tr p Ly s I l e As p Gl y Ser Gl u Ar g Gl n As n Gl y Val Leu
              145                     150                      155                     160
              As n Ser Tr p Thr As p Gl n As p Ser Ly s As p Ser Thr Ty r Ser Met Ser
                                165                     170                   175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Thr Ly s As p Gl u Ty r Gl u Ar g Hi s As n Ser Ty r
                          180                   185                      190
              Thr Cy s Gl u Al a Thr Hi s Ly s Thr Ser Thr Ser Pr o I l e Val Ly s Ser
                       195                     200                  205
              Phe As n Ar g As n Gl u Cy s
                  210
                                                            Page 25

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <210>   37
              <211>   122
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   37
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                        115                 120
              <210>   38
              <211>   271
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   38
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Al a Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val
                       35                     40                       45
              Ser Gl y I l e Ly s Ser Ser Gl y As p Ser Thr Ar g Ty r Al a Gl y Ser Val
                  50                      55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                                        Page 26

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                                  85                     90                      95
              Al a Ly s Ser Ar g Val Ser Ar g Thr Gl y Leu Ty r Thr Ty r As p As n Ar g
                            100                   105                    110
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y
                        115                  120                   125
              Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val
<removed-apn>
                   130                     135                     140
              Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu
              145                   150                    155                     160
              Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ar g Thr Phe As n As n Ty r Al a Met
                                165                     170                    175
              Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val Al a Al a
                            180                      185                     190
              I l e Thr Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ar g Ser Gl y Val Ser Al a I l e Ty r Gl y As p
                        195                    200                   205
              Ser Val Ly s As p Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr
                  210                    215                     220
              Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r
              225                   230                    235                    240
              Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ser Al a I l e Gl y Ser Gl y Al a Leu Ar g Ar g Phe Gl u
                                  245                     250                     255
              Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                             260                    265                 270
              <210>   39
              <211>   386
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>   Nanobody or Nanobody c ons t r uc t
              <400>   39
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Pr o Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                       35                      40                       45
                                                            Page 27

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ser Ser I l e Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Al a As p Ser Val
                  50                     55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Al a Ty r I l e Ar g Pr o As p Thr Ty r Leu Ser Ar g As p Ty r Ar g Ly s
                             100                      105                    110
              Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                      120                 125
              Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y
                   130                     135                   140
              Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser
              145                    150                    155                    160
              Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o
                               165                  170                    175
              Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p
                             180                   185                    190
              Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p
                      195                    200                    205
              As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u
                   210                   215                    220
              As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser
              225                    230                      235                   240
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y
                                245                 250                     255
              Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n
                            260                   265                     270
              Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe
                        275                   280                    285
              Ser Ser Ty r Pr o Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g
                  290                    295                     300
              Gl u Phe Val Ser Ser I l e Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Al a
              305                  310                     315                    320
                                                          Page 28

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n
                                325                     330                     335
              Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val
                           340                   345                     350
              Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Ty r I l e Ar g Pr o As p Thr Ty r Leu Ser Ar g As p
                        355                       360                     365
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Ar g Ly s Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser
                   370                      375                     380
              Ser Al a
              385
              <210>      40
              <211>      364
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      -
              <400>      40
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser As p Ty r
                           20                     25                   30
              Tr p Met Ty r Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val
                       35                      40                       45
              Ser Gl u I l e As n Thr As n Gl y Leu I l e Thr Ly s Ty r Pr o As p Ser Val
                  50                       55                      60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ar g Ser Pr o Ser Gl y Phe As n Ar g Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr
                            100                    105                     110
              Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu
                      115                     120                    125
              Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu
                  130                     135                    140
              Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p
              145                    150                  155                  160
                                                          Page 29

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser
                                 165                     170                   175
              Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe
                            180                   185                    190
              Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n
                        195                     200                   205
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y
                  210                     215                    220
              Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y
              225                  230                   235                 240
              Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y
                                 245                     250                   255
              Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a
                            260                     265                  270
              Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser As p Ty r Tr p Met Ty r Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a
                       275                  280                     285
              Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Gl u I l e As n Thr As n Gl y Leu
                   290                     295                     300
              I l e Thr Ly s Ty r Pr o As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g
              305                      310                    315                    320
              As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o
                                  325                   330                   335
              Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Ar g Ser Pr o Ser Gl y Phe As n
                            340                     345                    350
              Ar g Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                        355                   360
              <210>   41
              <211>   246
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   41
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ser Val Phe Ly s I l e As n
                           20                     25                   30
              Val Met Al a Tr p Ty r Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                                                          Page 30

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                       35                      40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e I l e Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ser Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                        55                    60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a
<removed-apn>
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe I l e Thr Thr Gl u Ser As p Ty r As p Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g Ty r Tr p Gl y
                            100                    105                     110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                 120                    125
              Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o
                   130                   135                    140
              Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser
              145                    150                    155                  160
              Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u
                               165                    170                      175
              Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p
                           180                    185                   190
              Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr
                      195                    200                      205
              Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r
                  210                    215                    220
              Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu
              225                      230                   235                   240
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                              245
              <210>   42
              <211>   260
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   42
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ar g Thr Phe Ser Ty r As n
                           20                     25                    30
                                                       Page 31

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Pr o Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                      40                       45
              Al a Al a I l e Ser Ar g Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Pr o As p Ser Val
                   50                      55                     60
              Gl u Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Ar g Met Val Ty r
              65                     70                       75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Al a Al a Gl y Val Ar g Al a Gl u As p Gl y Ar g Val Ar g Thr Leu Pr o
                             100                     105                     110
              Ser Gl u Ty r Thr Phe Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                       115                    120                    125
              Al a Al a Al a Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n
                   130                     135                   140
              Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ar g Thr Phe
              145                    150                    155                    160
              Ser Ty r As n Pr o Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g
                                 165                    170                      175
              Gl u Leu Val Al a Al a I l e Ser Ar g Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ty r Ty r Pr o
                           180                      185                   190
              As p Ser Val Gl u Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Ar g
                       195                    200                     205
              Met Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val
                  210                   215                    220
              Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a Al a Al a Gl y Val Ar g Al a Gl u As p Gl y Ar g Val Ar g
              225                      230                     235                     240
              Thr Leu Pr o Ser Gl u Ty r Thr Phe Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr
                               245                    250                     255
              Val Ser Ser Al a
                          260
              <210>   43
              <211>   250
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   43
                                                          Page 32

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              As p Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe I l e Leu As p Ty r Ty r
                           20                     25                     30
              Al a I l e Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Gl y Val
                         35                      40                       45
<removed-apn>
              Leu Cy s I l e As p Al a Ser As p As p I l e Thr Ty r Ty r Al a As p Ser Val
                  50                       55                       60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r
              65                     70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Thr Pr o I l e Gl y Leu Ser Ser Ser Cy s Leu Leu Gl u Ty r As p Ty r
                            100                    105                   110
              As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
                        115                     120                 125
              Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
                   130                    135                   140
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
              145                    150                   155                    160
              Phe Thr Phe Ar g Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                               165                  170                     175
              Ly s Gl y Pr o Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                             180                   185                     190
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
                       195                    200                     205
              Ser Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                  210                    215                   220
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
              225                    230                      235                  240
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                                245                 250
              <210>   44
              <211>   368
              <212>   PRT
                                                           Page 33

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <213>   -
              <400>   44
              As p Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                       45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val
                      115                   120                     125
              Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu
                   130                   135                    140
              Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met
              145                    150                   155                  160
              Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser
                                165                      170                    175
              I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y
                             180                   185                    190
              Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n
                       195                     200                    205
              Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e
                  210                    215                    220
              Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser
              225                   230                    235                 240
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u
                                 245                     250                   255
                                                          Page 34

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s
                            260                    265                    270
              Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g
                        275                     280                    285
              Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y
                   290                      295                    300
<removed-apn>
              Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser
              305                     310                    315                     320
              I l e As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g
                                  325                    330                   335
              Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr
                             340                    345                     350
              Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                       355                     360                  365
              <210>   45
              <211>   117
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   45
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Thr Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                      45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Gl n Met As n As n Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                 85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                      115
              <210>   46
                                                          Page 35

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <211>   143
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   46
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p
                           20                     25                      30
<removed-apn>
              Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Thr Gl y Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                       35                       40                      45
              Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val Ly s
                   50                      55                      60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Gl n Met As n As n Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n
                                 85                      90                     95
              Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n
                            100                   105                     110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Al a Al a Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl y Al a
                      115                   120                      125
              Al a Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u Gl u As p Leu As n Gl y Al a Al a
                   130                      135                    140
              <210>   47
              <211>   146
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   47
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Ser Val Phe Ly s I l e As n
                           20                     25                   30
              Val Met Al a Tr p Ty r Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Leu Val
                      35                       40                       45
              Al a Gl y I l e I l e Ser Gl y Gl y Ser Thr Ser Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s
                   50                        55                    60
              Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r Leu
              65                      70                      75                     80
                                                          Page 36

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Al a
                                85                      90                     95
              Phe I l e Thr Thr Gl u Ser As p Ty r As p Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g Ty r Tr p Gl y
                            100                    105                     110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                 120                    125
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Ser Ar g As p Tr p As p Phe As p Val Phe Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Pr o Val
                   130                     135                   140
              Gl y Gl y
              145
              <210>       48
              <211>       151
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       -
              <400>       48
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s I l e Al a Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Phe Ser Thr Ly s
                           20                      25                    30
              Ser Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                      35                      40                       45
              Al a Ar g I l e Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Thr Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val
                   50                       55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Al a I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Al a Ly s As n Thr Thr Tr p
              65                      70                       75                     80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ly s Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Ar g Ser Thr Ty r I l e Gl y Ser As n Ty r Ty r Ar g Thr
                            100                    105                      110
              As n Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Thr Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                      120                   125
              Al a Al a Al a Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u Gl u As p Leu As n Gl y Al a
                   130                      135                     140
              Al a Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              145                      150
                                                          Page 37

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <210>   49
              <211>   151
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   49
              Gl u Val Gl n Leu Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y
              1                 5                      10                     15
              Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Phe Ser Thr Ly s
<removed-apn>
                           20                     25                    30
              Ser Met Gl y Tr p Phe Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl u Phe Val
                      35                      40                       45
              Ser Ar g I l e Ser Pr o Gl y Gl y Thr Ser Ar g Ty r Ty r Gl y As p Phe Val
                  50                       55                     60
              Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n Ser Ly s As n Thr Leu Ty r
              65                     70                       75                    80
              Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Ser Gl y Gl u Ar g Ser Thr Ty r I l e Gl y Ser As n Ty r Ty r Ar g Thr
                            100                    105                      110
              As n Gl u Ty r As p Ty r Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                      120                   125
              Al a Al a Al a Gl u Gl n Ly s Leu I l e Ser Gl u Gl u As p Leu As n Gl y Al a
                   130                      135                     140
              Al a Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              145                      150
              <210>   50
              <211>   121
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   50
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
                                                         Page 38

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>   51
              <211>   121
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   51
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Ser Ser
                        115                  120
              <210>   52
              <211>   121
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   52
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
                                                         Page 39

                                                       eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Gl y Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>   53
              <211>   121
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   53
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Gl y
                        115                 120
              <210>   54
                                                         Page 40

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <211>   121
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   54
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
<removed-apn>
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Gl y Gl y
                        115                  120
              <210>   55
              <211>   122
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   55
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
                                                          Page 41

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                        115                 120
              <210>   56
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   -
              <400>   56
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                 120
              <210>   57
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   57
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                                                         Page 42

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                  50                      55                         60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
<removed-apn>
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Ser
                        115                 120
              <210>    58
              <211>    124
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    -
              <400>    58
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Ser Thr
                        115                 120
              <210>    59
              <211>    125
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    -
              <400>    59
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
                                                         Page 43

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Ser Thr Ly s
                        115                 120                  125
              <210>   60
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   60
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Ser Pr o
                        115                 120
                                                         Page 44

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <210>   61
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   61
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
<removed-apn>
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Pr o
                        115                 120
              <210>   62
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   62
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
                                                       Page 45

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Pr o Thr
                        115                 120
              <210>   63
              <211>   122
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   63
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                     60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Tr p
                        115                 120
              <210>   64
              <211>   122
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   64
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y As n Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Gl y
                           20                     25                     30
              Phe Thr Phe Ser Ser Phe Gl y Met Ser Tr p Val Ar g Gl n Al a Pr o Gl y
                      35                   40                    45
                                                         Page 46

                                                        eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ly s Gl y Leu Gl u Tr p Val Ser Ser I l e Ser Gl y Ser Gl y Ser As p Thr
                   50                     55                         60
              Leu Ty r Al a As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser Ar g As p As n
              65                     70                     75                      80
              Al a Ly s Thr Thr Leu Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p
                                85                    90                     95
<removed-apn>
              Thr Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s Thr I l e Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ser Ar g Ser Ser
                           100                      105                   110
              Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Leu
                        115                 120
              <210>   65
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   65
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   66
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   66
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
                                                           Page 47

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   67
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   67
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
                                                          Page 48

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <210>   68
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   68
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                    120
              <210>   69
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   69
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                                        Page 49

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                                 85                      90                       95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Gl n Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                    120
              <210>   70
<removed-apn>
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   70
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   71
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   71
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
                                                          Page 50

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   72
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   72
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   73
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   73
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
                                                           Page 51

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              1                  5                       10                       15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
<removed-apn>
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Gl y Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   74
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   74
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y
                        115                   120
                                                       Page 52

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              <210>   75
              <211>   125
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   75
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a Al a
                        115                   120                  125
              <210>   76
              <211>   126
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   76
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
                                                          Page 53

                                                       eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120                  125
<removed-apn>
              <210>   77
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   77
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Al a
                        115                   120
              <210>   78
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   78
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
                                                          Page 54

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
<removed-apn>
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   79
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   79
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu
              1                   5                      10                     15
              Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g Ser
                            20                     25                     30
              I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl u
                         35                     40                       45
              Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n Ty r
                   50                     55                      60
              Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser Ly s
              65                     70                      75                      80
              As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr Al a
                                85                    90                      95
              Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr Tr p
                            100                     105                   110
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Gl y Gl y
                        115                  120
              <210>   80
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   80
                                                           Page 55

                                                          eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   81
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   81
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Val Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                                                       Page 56

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                       115                      120
              <210>   82
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   82
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
<removed-apn>
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Al a Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   83
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   83
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
                                                          Page 57

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Al a
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
<removed-apn>
              <210>   84
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   84
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Leu Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Gl y Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   85
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   85
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                                                          Page 58

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
                       35                       40                       45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
<removed-apn>
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   86
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   86
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Ser Ser
                        115                   120
              <210>   87
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   87
                                                          Page 59

                                                         eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Thr Val Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120
              <210>   88
              <211>   124
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   88
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
                                                          Page 60

                                                       eol f - s eql
<removed-date>
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Ser Ser Al a
                        115                   120
              <210>   89
              <211>   123
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   -
              <400>   89
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Gl u Val Gl n Leu Val Gl u Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y
<removed-apn>
              1                   5                       10                    15
              Ser Val Gl n Al a Gl y Gl y Ser Leu Ar g Leu Ser Cy s Al a Al a Ser Ar g
                           20                     25                     30
              Ser I l e Gl y Ar g Leu As p Ar g Met Gl y Tr p Ty r Ar g Hi s Ar g Pr o Gl y
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl u Pr o Ar g Gl u Leu Val Al a Thr I l e Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser I l e As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Ty r Gl y As p Ser Val Ly s Gl y Ar g Phe Thr I l e Ser I l e As p As n Ser
              65                     70                     75                        80
              Ly s As n Thr Val Ty r Leu Gl n Met As n Ser Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u As p Thr
                                85                     90                     95
              Al a Val Ty r Ty r Cy s As n Phe As n Ly s Ty r Val Thr Ser Ar g As p Thr
                            100                     105                   110
              Tr p Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Leu Val Gl n Val Gl y Gl y
                        115                   120
                                                          Page 61

