           STABILIZED ANTIBODY-CONTAINING LIQUID FORMULATIONS
                                              Abstract
        An objective of the present invention is to provide stable antibody-containing
formulations which are suitable for subcutaneous administration and in which aggregation
formation is suppressed during long-term storage.      The present inventors discovered that a
significant stabilization effect was achieved by using an acidic amino acid, aspartic acid or
glutamic acid as a counter ion species in histidine buffer or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane,
specifically by using histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer, or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate as
a buffer.   The present inventors also discovered that a significant stabilization effect was
achieved by using an acidic amino acid, aspartic acid or glutamic acid, as a counter ion species to
a basic amino acid such as arginine, specifically by using arginine-aspartate or
arginine-glutamate.

                                                     1
                                            DESCRIPTION
             STABILIZED ANTIBODY-CONTAINING LIQUID FORMULATIONS
Technical Field
[001]    The present invention relates to antibody-containing formulations, in particular to stable
highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations.
Background Art
[002]    In recent years, there is an increasing demand for developing self-injectable
antibody-containing formulations for subcutaneous injection according to medical needs.
Designing antibody-containing formulations for subcutaneous injection makes it necessary to
increase the antibody concentration in the administered solution, since a single doses of antibody
are very high (about 100 to 200 mg) and the injection volume for subcutaneous injection is
generally limited.
[003]    Highly-concentrated antibody-containing solutions tend to form highly viscous
solutions by themselves due to intermolecular interactions and macromolecular protein
characteristics.   Furthermore, degradation phenomenon such as aggregation becomes
problematic when proteins are stored as highly-concentrated solutions, and thus, this degradation
must be prevented.     In particular, highly-concentrated antibody-containing solutions tend to
form aggregates during freeze-thawing, or when stored in liquid or frozen conditions for a long
time (Non-patent Documents 1 and 2).
[004]    To date, such highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations are generally
prepared by conventional lyophilizing concentration method (Patent Document 1), which is a
method for stabilizing highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations.         In the method,
highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations are obtained by lyophilizing an antibody
solution of a relatively low concentration and dissolving in a smaller volume of water than the
volume before lyophilization.      In this case, the increased viscosity of dissolved formulations is
of concern because a cryoprotectant such as sugar must be added to obtain lyophilized
formulations.
[005]    In that aspect, this problem can be avoided when a liquid formulation is prepared
without lyophilization.    However, as described above, highly-concentrated antibody-containing
liquid formulations tend to form aggregates.       Nonetheless, such formulations are highly
demanded because antibody-containing liquid formulations are easier to handle than lyophilized
formulations, and can be readily formulated into prefilled syringe formulations.

                                                    2
[006]     There have been various studies to stabilize highly-concentrated antibody-containing
liquid formulations (Non-patent Documents 1-4). Histidine buffer and arginine have been
reported to be useful as a buffer and a stabilizer, respectively, in antibody-containing liquid
formulations (Patent Documents 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6).       The histidine buffer is commonly used in
the form of hydrochloric acid salt.     Recently, it has been reported that histidine-acetate shows a
higher stabilization effect than histidine hydrochloride and thus acetic acid is useful as a counter
ion species in histidine buffer (Patent Document 6).      Meanwhile, arginine as a stabilizer has
been generally used in the form of arginine hydrochloride.       However, in some cases, sufficient
stability is not obtained when hydrochloric acid or acetic acid is used as a counter ion species to
histidine or arginine.     Thus, more superior counter ion species are needed.
Prior Art Documents
Patent Documents
[007]    Patent Document 1: WO 1997/004801
[008]    Patent Document 2: WO 2008/121615
[009]    Patent Document 3: WO 2009/141239
[010]    Patent Document 4: WO 2008/071394
[011]    Patent Document 5: WO 2006/065746
[012]    Patent Document 6: WO 2006/044908
Non-patent Documents
[013]    Non-patent Document 1: Challenges in the development of high protein concentration
formulations, J Pharm Sci, 2004, 93 (6), 1390-1402
[014]    Non-patent Document 2: Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2009 Dec;20(6):708-14. Epub 2009 Oct
31
[015]    Non-patent Document 3: Antibody structure, instability, and formulation, J Pharm Sci,
2007, 96 (1), 1-26
[016]    Non-patent Document 4: Formulation and delivery issues for monoclonal antibody
therapeutics, Adv Drug Del Rev, 2006, 58 (5-6), 686-706
Disclosure of the Invention
[Problems to be Solved by the Invention]
[017]     An objective of the present invention is to provide stable highly-concentrated
antibody-containing formulations which are suitable for subcutaneous administration.
[Means for Solving the Problems]
[018]     To achieve the above-described objective, the present inventors conducted dedicated
studies.    As a result, the present inventors discovered that a significantly higher stabilization

                                                   3
effect was achieved by using an acidic amino acid, aspartic acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion
species in histidine buffer or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer, i.e., histidine-aspartate
buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer, or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer as compared to conventionally reported
buffers for pharmaceutical formulations such as histidine hydrochloride buffer and
histidine-acetate buffer.    The present inventors also discovered that a significantly higher
stabilization effect was achieved by using arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate as a stabilizer,
i.e., by using an acidic amino acid, aspartic acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion species to a
basic amino acid such as arginine which is used as a stabilizer as compared to conventionally
reported stabilizers for pharmaceutical formulations such as arginine hydrochloride.       Thus, the
present inventors discovered that stable highly-concentrated antibody-containing liquid
formulations can be obtained by adding them as a stabilizer and thereby completed the present
invention.
[019]     Specifically, the present invention provides:
[1] a stable antibody-comprising formulation comprising basic amino acid-aspartate or basic
amino acid-glutamate;
[2] the formulation of [1] comprising histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer,
wherein the basic amino acid is histidine;
[3] the formulation of [1] comprising arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate, wherein the basic
amino acid is arginine;
[4] a stable antibody-comprising formulation comprising histidine-aspartate buffer or
histidine-glutamate buffer, and arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate;
[5] a stable antibody-comprising formulation comprising
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer;
[6] a stable antibody-comprising formulation comprising
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer and
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer;
[7] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [6], which does not substantially comprise
chloride ion and acetate ion;
[8] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [7], which additionally comprises a sugar;
[9] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [8], wherein the antibody is a humanized
antibody or a human antibody;
[10] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [9], wherein the antibody has been modified
to have an isoelectric point (pI) of 5 to 8;

                                                   4
[11] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [10], wherein the antibody concentration is 50
mg/ml or more;
[12] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [10], wherein the antibody concentration is 50
to 250 mg/ml;
[13] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [12], which is a liquid formulation;
[14] the formulation according to [13], wherein the viscosity of the liquid formulation is 30
mPa- s or less;
[15] the formulation according to [13] or [14], wherein the liquid formulation is stable at 20 C to
80 C for at least six months;
[16] the formulation according to any one of [13] to [15], which has not been subjected to
lyophilization during preparation of the formulation;
[17] the formulation according to any one of [13] to [16], which is frozen stored at -30'C to
-10 C;
[18] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [12], wherein the formulation is a lyophilized
formulation;
[19] the formulation according to any one of [2], [4], and [7] to [18], wherein the buffer
concentration is 5 to 100 mM;
[20] the formulation according to any one of [3] and [7] to [19], wherein the arginine
concentration is 5 to 300 mM;
[21] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [20], wherein the antibody is an anti-IL-6
receptor antibody;
[22] the formulation according to any one of [2], [4], and [7] to [21], wherein the buffer
substantially comprises only amino acid(s);
[23] the formulation according to any one of [1] to [22], which is for subcutaneous
administration;
[24] a method for suppressing aggregation formation during frozen storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using aspartic acid or glutamic acid as
a counter ion species to a buffer in the formulation;
[25] a method for suppressing aggregation formation during liquid storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using aspartic acid or glutamic acid as
a counter ion species to a buffer in the formulation;
[26] a method for suppressing aggregation formation during frozen storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using aspartic acid or glutamic acid as
a counter ion species to a stabilizer in the formulation; and

                                                   5
[27] a method for suppressing aggregation formation during liquid storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using aspartic acid or glutamic acid as
a counter ion species to a stabilizer in the formulation.
[020]      Furthermore, the present invention relates to use of basic amino acid-aspartate or basic
amino acid-glutamate in manufacturing a stable antibody-comprising formulation; and aspartic
acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion species to a buffer or stabilizer in a highly-concentrated
antibody-comprising formulation, used in a method for suppressing aggregation during frozen
storage or liquid storage of the formulation.
[Effects of the Invention]
[021]      The present invention provides antibody-containing formulations that are superior in
stability.   The present invention can also provide highly-concentrated antibody-containing
formulations by suppressing the aggregation formation in liquid and frozen formulations.          The
highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations of the present invention can be stably
stored in liquid or in frozen condition for a long period.    Furthermore, the formulations of the
present invention have an improved stability against freeze-thawing stress.      In addition, in terms
of osmotic pressure, stabilization can be achieved without increasing osmotic pressure, by using
aspartic acid and glutamic acid rather than the conventionally used hydrochloric acid and acetic
acid as counter ion species to histidine, arginine, or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane.        It is
advantageous to achieve stabilization without increasing the osmotic pressure, when one intends
to produce almost isotonic, stable formulations, such as formulations for subcutaneous (SC)
administration.
Brief Description of The Drawings
[022]      Fig. 1 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mab 1 at 40'C on the vertical axis.
[023]      Fig. 2 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mab2 at 40'C on the vertical axis.
[024]      Fig. 3 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing of Mabl on the vertical axis.
[025]      Fig. 4 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of MabI at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[026]      Fig. 5 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of MabI at 50 C on the vertical axis.
[027]      Fig. 6 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (-20'C to room temperature) of Mabl on the vertical axis.

                                                  6
[028]     Fig. 7 is a graph plotted with the amount (%) of aggregate after three months of storage
of Mabl at -20'C on the vertical axis.
[029]     Fig. 8 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (-20'C to room temperature) of Mab2 on the vertical axis.
[030]     Fig. 9 is a graph plotted with the amount (%) of aggregate after storage of Mab 1 at
-20'C on the vertical axis.
[031]     Fig. 10 is a graph plotted with the amount (%) of aggregate after freeze-thawing (-20'C
to room temperature) of Mabl on the vertical axis.
[032]     Fig. 11 is a graph plotted with the amount (%) of aggregate after three months of storage
of Mabl at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[033]     Fig. 12 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mab2 at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[034]     Fig. 13 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mab3 at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[035]     Fig. 14 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (between -20'C and room temperature) of Mab3 on the vertical axis.
[036]     Fig. 15 is a graph plotted with time dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mab4 at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[037]     Fig. 16 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (between -20'C and room temperature) of Mab4 on the vertical axis.
[038]     Fig. 17 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mabl, Mab2, and Mab3 at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[039]     Fig. 18 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (between -20'C and room temperature) of Mab 1, Mab2, and Mab3 on the
vertical axis.
[040]     Fig. 19 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mab5 at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[041]     Fig. 20 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (between -20'C and room temperature) of Mab5 on the vertical axis.
[001]     Fig. 21 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of MabI, Mab2, Mab3, Mab4, and Mab5 at 25'C on the vertical axis.
[042]     Fig. 22 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (between -20'C and room temperature) of Mabl, Mab2, Mab3, Mab4, and
Mab5 on the vertical axis.
[043]     Fig. 23 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during storage of Mabl, Mab2, and Mab3 at 25'C on the vertical axis.

                                                    7
[044]     Fig. 24 is a graph plotted with time-dependent changes of the amount (%) of aggregate
during freeze-thawing (between -20'C and room temperature) of Mab 1, Mab2, and Mab3 on the
vertical axis.
Mode for Carrying Out the Invention
[045]     Hereinbelow, the present invention will be described more specifically.
[046]     The present invention provides stable antibody-containing formulations which contain
basic amino acid-aspartate or basic amino acid-glutamate.        In the present invention, basic amino
acids include, for example, histidine, arginine, and lysine.    Furthermore, in the present
invention, buffers of basic amino compounds such as tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane are also
included in the definition of the basic amino acids of the present invention.
[047]      Specifically, the present invention provides stable antibody-containing formulations
which contain histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer where the basic amino acid
is histidine.   Furthermore, the present invention provides stable antibody-containing
formulations which contain arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate as a stabilizer, where the
basic amino acid is arginine.     The present invention also provides stable antibody-containing
formulations which contain histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer, and
arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate.      Furthermore, the present invention provides stable
antibody-containing formulations which contain tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate
buffer or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer.           The present invention also
provides stable antibody-containing formulations which contain
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer and
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer.          The antibody-containing formulation of
the present invention refers to a formulation that contains an antibody as an active ingredient and
is prepared in a form that allows administration to animals such as human.
[048]     Herein, "stable antibody-containing formulation" refers to a formulation in which
aggregation of proteins such as antibody is hardly formed, specifically, a formulation in which
degradation such as formation of insoluble and soluble aggregates hardly occurs during storage
in liquid or in frozen condition.
[049]     The concentration of antibody in a formulation of the present invention is not
particularly limited; however, the formulation preferably contains a high concentrated antibody.
The antibody concentration is preferably 50 mg/ml or more, more preferably 100 mg/ml or more,
even more preferably 120 mg/ml or more, still more preferably 150 mg/ml or more, and yet more
preferably 180 mg/ml or more.        The upper limit of the antibody concentration in a formulation
of the present invention is not particularly limited; however, the limit is generally 250 mg/ml.

                                                    8
[050]     The antibodies used in the present invention are not particularly limited, as long as they
bind to an antigen of interest. The antibodies may be polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies;
however, monoclonal antibodies are preferred because they can be stably produced as
homogeneous antibodies.
[051]     The monoclonal antibodies used in the present invention include not only those derived
from animals such as humans, mice, rats, hamsters, rabbits, sheep, camels, and monkeys, but
also artificially modified gene recombinant antibodies such as chimeric antibodies, humanized
antibodies, and bispecific antibodies.      The antibodies of the present invention also include gene
recombinant antibodies that result from artificially modifying the antibody constant regions to
alter the physical properties of the antibody molecule (specifically, alteration of the isoelectric
point (pI), improvement of the affinity for Fc receptor, etc) for the purpose of improving the
blood persistence and in vivo pharmacokinetics.
[052]     The immunoglobulin class of the antibodies used in the present invention is not
particularly limited; and the class may be any class, including IgG such as IgGI, IgG2, IgG3,
and IgG4, IgA, IgD, IgE, and IgM. However, IgG and IgM are preferred.
[053]     The antibodies used in the present invention also include not only whole antibodies but
also antibody fragments such as Fv, Fab, and F(ab) 2 , and minibodies (low molecular weight
antibodies) such as monovalent or bivalent single-chain Fv that result from linking antibody
variable regions via a linker such as peptide linker (scFv, sc(Fv) 2, diabodies such as scFv dimer,
etc).
[054]     The above-described antibodies used in the present invention can be prepared by
methods known to those skilled in the art.
[055]     Basically, monoclonal antibody-producing hybridomas can be prepared by the
conventional methods described below. Specifically, immunization is carried out by a
conventional immunization method using a desired antigen or cells expressing the desired
antigen as a sensitizing antigen.     The prepared immunocytes are fused with known parental
cells by a conventional cell fusion method.      The fused cells are screened for monoclonal
antibody-producing cells (hybridomas) by conventional screening methods.           Hybridomas can
be generated, for example, according to the method of Milstein et al. (Kohler, G. and Milstein,
C., Methods Enzymol. (1981) 73:3-46). When an antigen has low immunogenicity,
immunization can be performed using the antigen linked to immunogenic macromolecules such
as albumin.
[056]     Alternatively, it is possible to use gene recombinant antibodies produced using gene
recombination techniques in which antibody genes are cloned from hybridomas and inserted into
appropriate vectors, and the resulting vectors are introduced into hosts (see, for example, Carl, A.
K. Borrebaeck, James, W. Larrick, Therapeutic Monoclonal Antibodies, Published in the United

                                                   9
Kingdom by Macmillan Publishers, 1990).         Specifically, cDNAs for antibody variable regions
(V regions) are synthesized from the mRNAs of hybridomas using reverse transcriptase.           When
a DNA encoding an antibody V region of interest is obtained, the DNA is linked to a DNA
encoding a desired antibody constant region (C region).       The resulting construct is inserted into
an expression vector.    Alternatively, the antibody V region-encoding DNA may be inserted into
an expression vector carrying the DNA of the antibody C region.        The resulting construct is
inserted into an expression vector so that it is expressed under the control of an expression
regulatory region, for example, enhancer and promoter.       Then, host cells are transformed with
the expression vector to express the antibody.
[057]    In the present invention, artificially modified gene recombinant antibodies such as
chimeric and humanized antibodies can be used to reduce heterologous antigenicity against
human.     Such modified antibodies can be produced using known methods.          A chimeric
antibody is an antibody having the heavy-chain and light-chain variable regions of an antibody
from a nonhuman mammal such as mouse, and the heavy-chain and light-chain constant regions
of a human antibody.     The chimeric antibody can be produced by linking a DNA encoding the
variable regions of a mouse antibody to a DNA encoding the constant regions of a human
antibody, inserting the ligate into an expression vector, and then introducing the vector into a
host for expression.
[058]    A humanized antibody is also referred to as reshaped human antibody, and is obtained
by substituting the complementarity determining region (CDR) of a human antibody for the
complementarity determining region of an antibody derived from a nonhuman mammal, for
example, mouse.      Conventional gene recombination techniques are known.         Specifically, a
DNA sequence is designed to have a mouse antibody CDR linked to a human antibody
framework (FR) region, and is synthesized by PCR using several oligonucleotides prepared to
have overlapping regions at their ends.     The obtained DNA is ligated to a DNA encoding a
human antibody constant region and then inserted into an expression vector.        The expression
vector is introduced into a host to produce the humanized antibody (see, European Patent
Application Publication No. EP 239400 and WO 96/02576).           The CDR-linked human antibody
FR is selected so that the complementarity determining region forms a preferable
antigen-binding domain.      Amino acids in the framework region of the antibody variable region
can be substituted as required so that the complementarity determining region of the reshaped
human antibody forms a suitable antigen-binding domain (Sato, K. et al., Cancer Res. (1993) 53,
851-856).
[059]    There are known techniques for substituting amino acids in antibodies to improve
antibody activities, physical properties, pharmacokinetics, safety, and such. Examples of such

                                                  10
techniques are described below.      The antibodies of the present invention also include those
having such amino acid substitutions.
[060]     Techniques are reported for substituting amino acids in the IgG antibody variable
regions, and include humanization (Tsurushita N, Hinton PR, Kumar S., Design of humanized
antibodies: from anti-Tac to Zenapax., Methods. 2005 May;36(1):69-83); affinity maturation to
enhance the binding activity via amino acid substitution in the complementarity determining
region (CDR) (Rajpal A, Beyaz N, Haber L, Cappuccilli G, Yee H, Bhatt RR, Takeuchi T,
Lerner RA, Crea R., A general method for greatly improving the affinity of antibodies by using
combinatorial libraries., Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2005 Jun 14;102(24):8466-7 1); and
improvement of physicochemical stability via amino acid substitution in the framework (FR)
(Ewert S, Honegger A, Pluckthun A., Stability improvement of antibodies for extracellular and
intracellular applications: CDR grafting to stable frameworks and structure-based framework
engineering., Methods. 2004 Oct;34(2):184-99. Review).         There are also known techniques for
enhancing antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement-dependent
cytotoxicity (CDC) by substituting amino acids in IgG antibody Fc domain (Kim SJ, Park Y,
Hong HJ., Antibody engineering for the development of therapeutic antibodies., Mol Cells. 2005
Aug 31;20(1):17-29. Review).       Furthermore, in addition to techniques for enhancing the
effector functions, there are reports published on techniques for improving the antibody half-life
in blood by substituting amino acids in Fc (Hinton PR, Xiong JM, Johlfs MG, Tang MT, Keller
S, Tsurushita N., An engineered human IgGI antibody with longer serum half-life., J Immunol.
2006 Jan 1;176(1):346-56; Ghetie V, Popov S, Borvak J, Radu C, Matesoi D, Medesan C, Ober
RJ, Ward ES., Increasing the serum persistence of an IgG fragment by random mutagenesis., Nat
Biotechnol. 1997 Jul;15(7):637-40).      Another known technique includes amino acid
substitution technique to control the isoelectric point (pI) of an antibody for the purpose of
improving the blood persistence or in vivo pharmacokinetics, specifically, a technique for
modifying amino acid residues exposed on the surface of an antibody to control the pI of the
antibody (WO 07/114319).        Various techniques to substitute amino acids in the constant
regions for the purpose of improving the physical properties of an antibody are also known (WO
09/41613).
[061]     Reduction of the dosage of antibody as a pharmaceutical or extension of the interval of
antibody administration can be expected by extending the half-life or plasma retention of an
antibody.    Promising technologies to achieve this include a technique for decreasing the
isoelectric point of antibody (WO 07/114319).       The formulations of the present invention have
a high stabilizing effect for antibodies with an altered isoelectric point.  The pI-modified
antibody refers to a modified antibody whose pI is lower than that of the original antibody by
one or more, preferably two or more, and more preferably three or more.        In general, natural (or

                                                  11
ordinary) antibodies are assumed to have an isoelectric point within the range of 7.5 to 9.5.      The
formulations of the present invention have a high stabilizing effect for, in particular, antibodies
with a low isoelectric point which hardly exist in nature.     The isoelectric point of such
antibodies may be 5.0 to 8.0, preferably 5.0 to 7.5, more preferably 5.0 to 7.0, and still more
preferably 5.5 to 6.5.   As described in the Examples below, the isoelectric point of Mabl, which
was produced from modification of the Mab2 (isoelectric point       = 9.3) amino acid sequence to
control the isoelectric point, was 5.8.
[062]     Methods for obtaining human antibodies are also known.         For example, desired human
antibodies with antigen-binding activity can be obtained by sensitizing human lymphocytes with
an antigen of interest or cells expressing an antigen of interest in vitro; and fusing the sensitized
lymphocytes with human myeloma cells such as U266 (see Japanese Patent Application Kokoku
Publication No. (JP-B) HO1-59878 (examined, approved Japanese patent application published
for opposition)).    Alternatively, desired human antibodies can also be obtained by immunizing
transgenic animals having the entire repertoire of human antibody genes with an antigen (see
WO 93/12227, WO 92/03918, WO 94/02602, WO 94/25585, WO 96/34096, and WO 96/33735).
Furthermore, techniques for obtaining human antibodies by panning with a human antibody
library are known.     For example, the variable regions of human antibodies can be expressed as
single-chain antibodies (scFvs) on the surface of phages using a phage display method, and then
phages that bind to the antigen can be selected.    The genes of selected phages can be analyzed
to determine the DNA sequences that encode the variable regions of human antibodies that bind
to the antigen.   When the DNA sequences of scFvs that bind to the antigen are identified,
appropriate expression vectors carrying these sequences can be constructed to obtain human
antibodies.    Such methods are already well known.       See WO 92/01047, WO 92/20791, WO
93/06213, WO 93/11236, WO 93/19172, WO 95/01438, and WO 95/15388.                   The antibodies
used in the present invention also include such human antibodies.
[063]     When the antibody genes are isolated and introduced into appropriate hosts to produce
antibodies, hosts and expression vectors can be used in appropriate combinations.        When
eukaryotic cells are used as a host, animal cells, plant cells, and fungal cells can be used.    The
animal cells include: (1) mammalian cells such as CHO, COS, myeloma, baby hamster kidney
(BHK), HeLa, and Vero cells; (2) amphibian cells such as Xenopus oocytes; and (3) insect cells
such as sf9, sf2 1, and Tn5.    Known plant cells include cells derived from genus Nicotiana such
as Nicotiana tabacum, which can be cultured as a callus.       Known fungal cells include yeasts
such as genus Saccharomyces, for example Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and filamentous fungi
such as genus Aspergillus, for example Aspergillus niger. When using prokaryotic cells,
production systems using bacterial cells can be used.     Known bacterial cells include
Escherichiacoli (E. coli) and Bacillus subtilis. The antibodies can be obtained by introducing

                                                    12
the antibody genes of interest into these cells by transformation and then culturing the
transformed cells in vitro.
[064]    The antibodies used in the present invention also include antibody fragments,
minibodies, and modified antibodies.        Such antibody fragments and minibodies include, for
example, Fab, F(ab')2, Fv, or mono-, bi-, or multi-valent single-chain Fv (scFv, sc(Fv) 2 , or such)
resulting from linking H chain and L chain Fvs via appropriate linkers (Huston J. S. et al., (1988)
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85:5879-5883).        Specifically, such antibody fragments are
generated by treating antibodies with an enzyme such as papain or pepsin.        Alternatively, the
gene encoding an antibody fragment is constructed, inserted into an expression vector, and
expressed in appropriate host cells (see, for example, Co, M. S. et al., J. Immunol. (1994) 152,
2968-2976; Better, M. and Horwitz, A. H., Methods Enzymol. (1989) 178, 476-496; Pluckthun,
A. and Skerra, A., Methods Enzymol. (1989) 178, 497-515; Lamoyi, E., Methods Enzymol.
(1986) 121, 652-663; Rousseaux, J. et al., Methods Enzymol. (1986) 121, 663-669; Bird, R. E.
and Walker, B. W., Trends Biotechnol. (1991) 9, 132-137).
[065]    Modified antibodies include antibodies linked to polyethylene glycol (PEG) or various
molecules such as cytotoxic agents (Farmaco. 1999 Aug 30;54(8):497-516; Cancer J. 2008
May-Jun;14(3):154-69).       The "antibodies" of the present invention also include such modified
antibodies.   Such modified antibodies can be prepared by chemically modifying the obtained
antibodies.   Such methods are already established in this field.
[066]    Antibodies to be contained in formulations of the present invention include, but are not
limited to, anti-tissue factor antibodies, anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies, anti-IL-6 antibodies,
anti-HM1.24 antigen monoclonal antibodies, anti-parathyroid hormone-related peptide
antibodies (anti-PTHrP antibodies), anti-glypican-3 antibodies, anti-ganglioside GM3 antibodies,
anti-TPO receptor agonist antibodies, antibodies as a functional substitute for coagulation factor
VIII, anti-IL31 receptor antibodies, anti-HLA antibodies, anti-AXL antibodies, anti-CXCR4
antibodies, anti-NR10 antibodies, and bispecific antibodies against factor IX and factor X.
[067]    Preferred reshaped humanized antibodies used in the present invention include
humanized interleukin 6 (IL-6) receptor antibodies (tocilizumab, hPM-1, and MRA) (see WO
92/19759), humanized anti-HM1.24 antigen monoclonal antibodies (see WO 98/14580),
humanized anti-parathyroid hormone-related peptide antibodies (anti-PTHrP antibodies) (see
WO 98/13388), humanized anti-tissue factor antibodies (see WO 99/51743), humanized
anti-glypican-3 IgGiK antibodies (see PCT/JP05/013103), and anti-NR10 humanized antibodies
(see W02009/072604).         Particularly preferred humanized antibodies used in the present
invention are humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibodies.
[068]    Preferred human IgM antibodies include recombinant human anti-ganglioside GM3 IgM
antibodies (see WO 05/05636).

                                                   13
[069]     Preferred minibodies include anti-TPO receptor agonist diabodies (see WO 02/33072)
and anti-CD47 agonist diabodies (see WO 01/66737).
[070]     Furthermore, antibodies with an improved isoelectric point include, for example, Mabl
(H chain /SEQ ID NO: 1; L chain/SEQ ID NO: 2), which is an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody
described in WO 2009/041621, anti-NR1 0 humanized antibodies, and fully humanized NS22
antibodies produced by the method described in Example 12 of WO2009/072604.
[071]     In a preferred embodiment, the buffer of a formulation of the present invention (for
example, histidine-aspartate buffer, histidine-glutamate buffer,
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer, or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer) is prepared by titrating an aqueous solution
containing basic amino acid such as histidine or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane as a free
amino acid with an aqueous solution containing aspartic acid and/or glutamic acid as a free
amino acid.     Alternatively, the buffer can be prepared by adding the ingredients in the reverse
order, or by direct titration with powders.
[072]     In a preferred embodiment, arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate in a formulation of
the present invention is a salt prepared by titrating an aqueous solution containing aspartic acid
(free amino acid) and/or glutamic acid (free amino acid) as a free amino acid with an aqueous
solution containing arginine (free base) as a free amino acid.    Alternatively, the salt can be
prepared by adding the ingredients in the reverse order, or by direct titration with powders.
[073]     The present inventors conducted freeze-thawing study, thermal acceleration study, long
term stability study, and frozen storage study to assess the effects of various additives on the
stability of highly-concentrated antibody formulations during storage.      As a result, the present
inventors discovered that the aggregation formation was significantly suppressed by using an
acidic amino acid, aspartic acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion species in histidine buffer, i.e.,
by using histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer as a buffer as compared to
conventional buffers for pharmaceutical formulations such as histidine hydrochloride buffer and
histidine-acetate buffer.
[074]     The present inventors also discovered that a higher stabilization effect was achieved by
adding arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate as compared to arginine hydrochloride which
has been reported as a stabilizer for antibody-containing formulations.     The assessment results
are exemplified in the Examples hereinbelow, using a humanized anti-IL-6 receptor antibody.
[075]     Specifically, stable highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations that have low
levels of antibody aggregation can be prepared by adding histidine-aspartate buffer or
histidine-glutamate buffer, or tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer.          Furthermore, more stable
highly-concentrated antibody-containing formulations that have much lower levels of antibody

                                                   14
aggregation can be prepared by adding arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate as a stabilizer.
Thus, the present invention relates to methods for significantly suppressing the aggregation
formation by using histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer, or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer as a buffer for highly-concentrated
antibody-containing solutions, and methods for significantly suppressing the aggregation
formation by adding arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate as a stabilizer to
highly-concentrated antibody-containing solutions.
[076]     In an embodiment, the methods of the present invention include, for example, methods
for suppressing the aggregation formation during storage of highly-concentrated
antibody-containing formulations under frozen conditions or freeze-thawing by using aspartic
acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion species to the buffer (for example, histidine buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer) or as a counter ion species to the stabilizer (for
example, arginine) in the formulations.
[077]     In another embodiment, the methods of the present invention include, for example,
methods for suppressing the aggregation formation during storage of highly-concentrated
antibody-containing formulations in a liquid condition by using aspartic acid or glutamic acid as
a counter ion species to the buffer (for example, histidine buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane buffer) or as a counter ion species to the stabilizer (for
example, arginine) in the formulations.
[078]     In the present invention, buffers that can be used instead of histidine buffer and in which
aspartic acid or glutamic acid is used as a counter ion species include
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (Tris) and imidazole.          Such buffers can also be added to the
histidine buffer of the present invention.
[079]     In the present invention, stabilizers to which aspartic acid or glutamic acid can be used
as a counter ion species include argininamide, lysine, meglumine, spermine, spermidine,
magnesium, calcium, sodium, and potassium, in addition to arginine.
[080]     As described above, the present invention provides stable antibody-containing
formulations that comprise histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer, or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer.          A much higher stabilization effect is
achieved in the antibody-containing formulations of the present invention when
arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate is additionally contained.     Thus, the present invention
relates to antibody-containing formulations which contain a salt that combines a basic amino
acid such as histidine or arginine (preferably, histidine and/or arginine) or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane with aspartic acid or glutamic acid in liquid.

                                                    15
[081]     The histidine used in the present invention may be histidine itself or a derivative thereof,
and L-histidine is particularly preferred.     The arginine used in the present invention may be
arginine itself, a derivative thereof, or a salt thereof, and L-arginine or a salt thereof is
particularly preferable.    Preferred salts of arginine include aspartate salt and glutamate salt.
[082]     In the formulations of the present invention, the concentration (amount) of
histidine-aspartate buffer or histidine-glutamate buffer is preferably 1 to 100 mM, more
preferably 5 to 100 mM, even more preferably 5 to 50 mM, and still more preferably 10 to 25
mM.
[083]     In the formulations of the present invention, the concentration (amount) of arginine is
preferably 5 to 300 mM, more preferably 25 to 200 mM, and still more preferably 50 to 150 mM.
[084]     The formulations of the present invention may be solutions (antibody-containing liquid
formulations) or lyophilized formulations.        The liquid formulations of the present invention also
include solutions before lyophilization step(s), and the dissolved solutions.       The liquid
formulations of the present invention are preferably produced without the lyophilization step(s)
in production.    Meanwhile, the lyophilized formulations of the present invention can be
obtained by lyophilizing the liquid formulations of the present invention using methods known to
those skilled in the art.
[085]     The pH of the formulations of the present invention is preferably 4 to 8, more preferably
5.0 to 7.5, and still more preferably 5.5 to 6.5.
[086]     The viscosity of the liquid formulations of the present invention at room temperature
(25 C) is preferably 30 mPa- s or less, more preferably 20 mPa- s or less, and still more preferably
15 mPa-s or less.
[087]     Significant changes are not observed for the liquid formulations of the present invention
for at least 6 months, preferably 12 months, more preferably two years, even more preferably
three years at refrigeration temperature (2'C to 8C), or for at least six months, preferably one
year, and more preferably two years at room temperature (22'C to 28C).            Specifically, the
present invention relates to liquid formulations that are stable for at least six months at 22'C to
28 0 C.
[088]     The liquid formulations of the present invention can be frozen and stored at a
temperature within the range of -30 0 C to -10 0 C.
[089]     The formulations of the present invention may additionally contain surfactants.        As
used in the present invention, preferred surfactants include polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid
esters and polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene alkyl ethers, and more preferred surfactants
include polysorbates 20 and 80, and Pluronic F-68 (poloxamer 188).          The surfactants can be
added to the formulations of the present invention in general at 0.0001% to 10% (w/v),
preferably at 0.001% to 5%, and more preferably at 0.005% to 3%.

                                                   16
[090]     The formulations of the present invention may further contain amino acids. As used in
the preset invention, preferred amino acids include natural amino acids and amino acid
derivatives, and particularly preferred amino acids include L-methionine and L-proline.
[091]     The formulations of the present invention may further contain sugars. The preferred
sugars used in the present invention include sucrose, trehalose, meglumine, and sorbitol.
[092]     The amount of amino acid or sugar that can be added to the formulations of the present
invention is generally 1 to 1000 mM, preferably 5 to 500 mM, and more preferably 10 to 300
mM.
[093]     The formulations of the present invention may further contain inorganic salts. The
preferred inorganic salts used in the present invention include magnesium salts and calcium salts.
[094]     The formulations of the present invention are substantially constituted by the ingredients
of A to D below.
(A) anti-IL-6 receptor antibody;
(B) histidine-aspartate buffer and/or histidine-glutamate buffer;
(C) arginine (including arginine-aspartate and arginine-glutamate), amino acids other than
arginine, and/or sugars as needed; and
(D) surfactants.
[095]     "Substantially constituted" means that the concentrations of the optional additives
described below, which are ingredients other than the ingredients generally added to the
formulations, are 5 mM or less, preferably 2 mM or less, and more preferably 1 mM or less.
Such optional additives include cryoprotectants, suspending agents, solubilizing agents,
isotonizing agents, preservatives, adsorption inhibitors, diluents, excipients, pH adjustors,
analgesics, sulfur-containing reducing agents, and antioxidants.
[096]     Furthermore, it is preferred that the formulations of the present invention do not contain
anions other than aspartic acid and glutamic acid, as counter ions to the buffer or stabilizer. In
an embodiment, such formulations include, for example, those that do not substantially contain
chloride ion and acetate ion.    "Substantially do not contain chloride ion and acetate ion" means
that the concentrations of chloride ion and acetate ion are, for example, 5 mM or less, preferably
2 mM or less, and more preferably 1 mM or less.       Highly stable antibody-containing
formulations can be produced without increasing the osmotic pressure, as a result of using
aspartic acid and glutamic acid which have higher stabilizing effect as a counter ions and not
substantially including chloride ion and acetate ion with poorer stabilization effect.
[097]     If needed, the formulations of the present invention may further contain appropriate
cryoprotectants, suspending agents, solubilizing agents, isotonizing agents, preservatives,
adsorption inhibitors, diluents, excipients, pH adjustors, analgesics, sulfur-containing reducing
agents, antioxidants, and such.

                                                     17
[098]     Cryoprotectants include, for example, sugars such as trehalose, sucrose, and sorbitol.
[099]     Solubilizing agents include, for example, polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil,
polysorbate 80, nicotinamide, polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate, macrogol, and castor oil
fatty acid ethyl ester.
[100]     Isotonizing agents include, for example, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, and
calcium chloride.
[101]     Preservatives include, for example, methyl parahydroxybenzoate, ethyl
parahydroxybenzoate, sorbic acid, phenol, cresol, and chlorocresol.
[102]     Adsorption inhibitors include, for example, human serum albumin, lecithin, dextran,
ethylene oxide/propylene oxide copolymer, hydroxypropyl cellulose, methyl cellulose,
polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil, and polyethylene glycol.
[103]     Sulfur-containing reducing agents include, for example, those containing sulfhydryl
groups such as N-acetylcysteine, N-acetylhomocysteine, thioctic acid, thiodiglycol, thioethanol
amine, thioglycerol, thiosorbitol, thioglycolic acid and salts thereof, sodium thiosulfate,
glutathione, and thioalkanoic acids having one to seven carbon atoms.
[104]     Antioxidants include, for example, erythorbic acid, dibutylhydroxytoluene,
butylhydroxyanisole, a-tocopherol, tocopherol acetate, L-ascorbic acid and salts thereof,
L-ascorbic acid palmitate, L-ascorbic acid stearate, sodium hydrogen sulfite, sodium sulfite,
triamyl gallate, propyl gallate, and chelating agents such as disodium ethylenediamine
tetraacetate (EDTA), sodium pyrophosphate, and sodium metaphosphate.
[105]     The formulations of the present invention may be administered orally or parenterally.
In general, the formulations are administered parenterally, specifically via injection, transdermal
administration, transmucosal administration, nasal administration, pulmonary administration, or
the like.   Injection includes, for example, systemic and local administrations by subcutaneous
injection, intravenous injection, intramuscular injection, or such.     The injection volume is
limited in subcutaneous injection; however, a single antibody dose may be a large quantity
(about 100 to 200 mg).     Thus, the formulations of the present invention are particularly suitable
for subcutaneous administration (injection).
[106]     In terms of pain, it is preferred that the osmotic pressure ratio of buffering agent is close
to isotonic 1.0 in formulations for subcutaneous administration.       Thus, the osmotic pressure
ratio of the liquid formulations of the present invention is preferably about 1. Arginine, sugars,
and such are added to improve the stability of formulations during storage.        However, when the
osmotic pressure is greater than the isotonic level, it may cause pain of subcutaneous
administration.     Thus, adding such stabilizers with consideration of osmotic pressure is
preferred.

                                                   18
[107]     Furthermore, the present invention relates to use of basic amino acid-aspartate or basic
amino acid-glutamate in manufacturing a stable antibody-comprising formulation; and aspartic
acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion species to a buffer or stabilizer in a highly-concentrated
antibody-comprising formulation, used in a method for suppressing aggregation during frozen
storage or liquid storage of the formulation.
[108]     All prior-art documents cited in the specification are incorporated herein by reference.
[Examples]
[109]     Hereinbelow, the present invention is specifically described with reference to the
Examples, but the scope of the present invention is not to be construed as being limited thereto.
 [Example 1] Assessment of the stabilization effect of counter ion species using Mab 1 and Mab2
[110]     Mabl (H chain/SEQ ID NO: 1; L chain/SEQ ID NO: 2) and Mab2 (H chain/SEQ ID
NO: 3; L chain/SEQ ID NO: 4; tocilizumab), which are described as an anti-IL-6 receptor
antibody in WO 2009/041621, were expressed by a method known to those skilled in the art
using a stable expression CHO cell line, and then purified to high purity by a method known to
those skilled in the art using protein A.   Purified MabI and Mab2 were used in the stability
study described in the Examples below.
[111]     The stability of two types of formulations, containing histidine-chloride or
histidine-acetate, was assessed by freeze-thawing or by storage at 40'C using MabI and Mab2.
Mab 1 and Mab2 formulations were prepared by overnight dialysis against each formulated
solution (Table 1), followed by concentration of the solutions.     The final concentrations of
Mabl and Mab2 were adjusted to 37 mg/ml.          The freeze-thawing study was carried out by
conducting ten cycles of slow freeze-thawing (freezing at -20'C followed by thawing at room
temperature), and then ten cycles of rapid freeze-thawing (freezing at -20'C followed by thawing
in warm water bath (37C)).       The amount of aggregate in each formulation after freeze-thawing
or storage at 40'C was calculated by the area percentage method using size exclusion
chromatography (SEC).        An increase of the aggregates (%) suggests reduced stability of Mabl
or Mab2.     Thus, increase in the amount of aggregate was used as an indicator to compare the
stability between respective formulations.
Size exclusion chromatography (SEC)
[112]     Size exclusion chromatography (SEC) was performed to analyze the quantity of
aggregates and low-molecular-weight degradation products in each formulation. Each
formulation was diluted to about 0.4-2.0 mg/ml with the mobile phase described below, and then
analyzed using G3000SWXL column (Tosoh Co.) at a flow rate of 0.5 ml/min with a mobile

                                                   19
phase of 50 mM phosphate buffer (pH 7.0) containing 300 mM NaCl (detection wavelength: 220
nm).    The elution peak that appeared earlier than the monomer peak was analyzed as the
aggregates, and the elution peak that appeared after the monomer peak but earlier than the
buffer-derived peak was analyzed as the low-molecular-weight degradation products.           The
respective contents (%) were calculated by the area percentage method.
Table 1
 Formulation list
    No.                        Buffer                           Stabilizer                   pH
      1            20mM Histidine-Chloride
      2            20mM Histidine-Acetate
[113]     The stability study results of the two types of formulations containing histidine- chloride
or histidine-acetate using MabI and Mab2 are shown in Figs. 1 to 3. The results demonstrated
that Mabl1 was slightly more stable in histidine-chloride than in histidine-acetate during both
liquid storage and freeze-thawing.     The result of liquid storage showed that Mab2 was about
twofold more stable in histidine-chloride than in histidine-acetate.
[Example 21 Assessment of the stabilization effect of counter ion species using Mab1 (1)
[114]     In general, hydrochloric acid has been used as a counter ion species to histidine and
arginine. According to a previous report (PCT/US2005/037471), results of assessing acetic
acid, phosphoric acid, and sulfuric acid as a counter ion species to histidine showed that acetic
acid has a superior stabilizing effect when used as a counter ion species to histidine.     However,
as described in Example 1 above, the present invention demonstrated that hydrochloric acid was
slightly more superior than acetic acid as a counter anion species to histidine when used for
MabI and Mab2.        Hydrochloric acid is a common counter anion species, while hydrochloric
acid has been reported to have a tendency of corroding stainless steel which is generally used for
containers (Dent. Mater. 17:409-414 (2001); J. Pharm. Sci. 86:1250-1255 (1997)).          Besides, it
has been reported that the pH tends to alter in acetic acid because of its volatility (Injectable
Drug Development, Authors: Pramod K. Gupta (Editor), Gayle A. Brazeau, Gayle A).
[115]     Thus, in this Example, the present inventors searched for involatile counter ions that are
not corrosive for stainless steel and have a superior stabilization effect than acetic acid and
hydrochloric acid, as a counter anion species in the buffer for MabI and Mab2.         The present
inventors assessed anion species other than hydrochloric acid, acetic acid, phosphoric acid, and
sulfuric acid previously reported in PCT/US2005/037471.         Specifically, aspartic acid and
glutamic acid, which are both amino acids, were assessed as counter ion species.        As described

                                                 20
in Example 1, histidine-chloride was demonstrated to have a more superior stabilization effect
than histidine-acetate in both MabI and Mab2, so the stabilization effect of counter ion species
was compared to that of hydrochloric acid.     Specifically, according to the three formulations
shown in Table 2, the effect of hydrochloric acid, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid on stability
were assessed as a counter anion species to histidine as a buffer or arginine as a stabilizer using
Mabl.
[116]     Each formulation was prepared by the same method as described in Example 1. MabI
was dialyzed against the solution of each formulation (Table 2) overnight. Then, each solution
was concentrated, and the final concentration of Mabl1 was adjusted to 200 mg/ml.        The
freeze-thawing study was carried out by conducting ten cycles of slow freeze-thawing (freezing
at -20'C followed by thawing at room temperature).       The method for preparing each formulated
solution is described below.    Formulation No. 3 sample was prepared as follows: L-histidine
and L-arginine were dissolved in MilliQ water at 20 mM and 50 mM, respectively, and the
solutions were titrated to pH 6 with 1 N hydrochloric acid.    Formulation Nos. 4 and 5 samples
were prepared as follows: L-histidine, L-arginine, and L-aspartic acid or L-glutamic acid were
dissolved in MilliQ water at 20 mM, 50 mM, and 60 mM, respectively, and then the solutions
were titrated to pH 6 with a 30 to 40 mM L-aspartic acid or L-glutamic acid solution.       The
amount of aggregate in each sample after freeze-thawing or storage at -20 C, 25'C, and 5'C was
calculated by the area percentage method using size exclusion chromatography (SEC).
Table 2
 Formulation list
    No.                   Buffer                              Stabilizer                    pH
     3            20mM Histidine-Chloride                50mM Arg-Chloride
     4           20mM Histiline-Aspartate               50mM Arg-Aspartate                 6.0
     5          20mM Histidine-Glutamate               50mM Arg-Glutamate
[117] The increased amount (%) of aggregate during freeze-thawing or storage at -20'C, 25'C,
and 5'C for each formulation is shown in Figs. 4 to 7. The increased amount (%) of aggregate
during storage at 5'C and 25'C, showed that stability was enhanced in the order of: glutamic
acid = aspartic acid > hydrochloric acid as counter ion species to histidine and arginine.    Thus,
it was demonstrated that the stability of Mabl1 was improved by using aspartic acid or glutamic
acid as a counter ion species, instead of hydrochloric acid.   The same tendency was seen in
freeze-thawing and frozen storage.     The increased amount (%) of aggregate during storage at
-20'C for three months with the glutamic acid formulation, aspartic acid formulation, or

                                                      21
hydrochloric acid formulation was about 0.8%, 1.2%, or 3.0%, respectively.          Thus, the
stabilization effect of glutamic acid was slightly stronger than that of aspartic acid.
[118]     Examples 1 and 2 demonstrated that when used as a counter anion species, glutamic
acid and aspartic acid have a superior Mab 1-stabilizing effect than hydrochloric acid and acetic
acid.   There is no report demonstrating that glutamic acid and aspartic acid are volatile or
corrosive for stainless steel.     Thus, glutamic acid and aspartic acid are found to be promising as
a counter anion species for Mabl.        Specifically, histidine-glutamate and histidine-aspartate are
superior as a buffer than histidine-chloride and histidine-acetate, and arginine-glutamate and
arginine-aspartate are more superior as a stabilizer than arginine-chloride and arginine-acetate.
[Example 31 Assessment of the stabilization effect of counter ion species using Mab2 (1)
[119]     As described in Example 1, Mab2 was found to be more stable in histidine-chloride
buffer than histidine-acetate buffer (like Mabl, Fig. 2).       Furthermore, as described in Example
2, the stability in liquid and frozen conditions of Mabl was significantly improved when aspartic
acid or glutamic acid was used instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species to histidine
and arginine.     In particular, the stability in frozen conditions of Mabl was greatly improved (to
about threefold) when glutamic acid was used instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion
species to histidine and arginine.      In this context, glutamic acid and hydrochloric acid were
assessed as a counter ion species to histidine for their ability to stabilize Mab2 during
freeze-thawing.      Arginine-containing formulations which have high stabilization effect were
also assessed at the same time, and used as a control to compare the stabilization effect observed
when glutamic acid was used as a counter ion species to histidine.
[120]     Each formulation was prepared by the same method as described in Example 1.            Mab2
was dialyzed overnight against each formulated solution (Table 3).         Then, each solution was
concentrated, and the final concentration of Mab2 was adjusted to about 40 to 230 mg/ml.           The
method for preparing the each formulated solution is described below.          Formulation Nos. 6 and
8 samples were prepared as follows: L-histidine and L-arginine (formulation No. 8 alone) were
each dissolved in MilliQ water at 50 mM, and the solutions were titrated to pH 6 with 1 N
hydrochloric acid.     Formulation No. 7 sample was prepared as follows: L-histidine and
L-glutamic acid were dissolved in MilliQ water at 50 mM and 25 mM, respectively, and then the
solution was titrated to pH 6 with a 30 to 40 mM L-glutamic acid solution.         The concentration
of Mab2 in each formulation after sample preparation is shown in Table 4.          The freeze-thawing
study was carried out with ten cycles of freezing at -20'C followed by thawing at room
temperature (slow freeze-thawing).         Following slow freeze-thawing, the amount of aggregate in
each formulation was calculated by the area percentage method using size exclusion
chromatography (SEC).

                                                    22
Table 3
Formulation list
     No.                     Buffer                              Stabilizer                     pH
      6           50mM Histidine-Chbride
      7         50mM Histidine-Glutamate                                                       6.0
      8           50mM Histidine-Chbride                 50mM Arginine-Ch bride
Table 4
 Measurement result: List of Mab2 concentration in solution of each formulation
   No.                Buffer                       Stabilizer              pH     Mab2 Concentration (mg/mL)
    6A                                                                                      47
    6B                                                                                      70
    6C                                                                                      97
    6D        50mM Histidine-Chbride                                                       122
    GE                                                                                     143
    6F                                                                                     164
    6G                                                                                     186
    6H                                                  -_229
    7A                                                                                      46
    7B                                                                                      72
    7C                                                                                      97
    7D       50mM Hitidine-Gktamate                                       6.0              119
    7E                                                                                     144
    7F                                                                                     165
    7G                                                                                     196
    8A                                                                                      44
    8B                                                                                      68
    8C                                                                                      94
    8D        50mM Hitidine-Chbride          50mM Arginine-Chbride                         120
    8E                                                                                     144
    8F                                                                                     168
    8G                                                                                     192
[121]    The increased amount (%) of aggregate for each formulation in the freeze-thawing study
is shown in Fig. 8.    The results demonstrated that by using glutamic acid instead of
hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species to histidine, the stability of Mab2 was improved to
about two times.     In addition, the stabilization effect of glutamic acid was comparable to that of
50 mM arginine chloride, which is a conventional stabilizer.        Thus, glutamic acid alone was
demonstrated to exert high stabilization effect as a counter ion species.
[122]    Meanwhile, it is believed that the osmotic pressure ratio of the buffer is preferably close
to isotonic 1.0 in formulations for subcutaneous administration because of the injection pain.
The stability during freeze-thawing was comparable between 50 mM histidine-chloride/50 mM

                                                   23
arginine-chloride and 50 mM histidine-glutamate.        The osmotic pressure of the buffer in the
latter was about 100 mOsm lower than in the former.         Thus, as described above, when the
stability is improved by using aspartic acid or glutamic acid as a counter ion species, stability can
be enhanced alone without increasing the osmotic pressure.        This can be a great advantage in
developing formulations for subcutaneous administration.
[123]     Meanwhile, arginine, sugars, and such are added to improve the stability of formulations
during storage.    However, when the osmotic pressure is greater than the isotonic level, it may
cause injection pain at subcutaneous administration.      Thus, such stabilizers must be added by
considering the osmotic pressure (Injectable Drug Development, Authors: Pramod K. Gupta
(Editor), Gayle A. Brazeau, Gayle A; Challenges in the development of high protein
concentration formulations, J Pharm Sci, 2004, 93(6), 1390-1402).        When hydrochloric acid or
acetic acid is added as a counter anion species to histidine or arginine, neither hydrochloric acid
nor acetic acid has the effect of stabilizing Mabl.    Thus, hydrochloric acid and acetic acid only
produce the effect of increasing the osmotic pressure.      Accordingly, from the viewpoint of
osmotic pressure, the concentration of ion species that do not have the stabilization effect should
be minimized in the formulations.      Specifically, also from the viewpoint of osmotic pressure,
absence of hydrochloric acid and acetic acid is preferred.     Histidine-glutamate and
histidine-aspartate are superior as a buffer than histidine-chloride and histidine-acetate; and
arginine-glutamate and arginine-aspartate are superior as a stabilizer than arginine-chloride and
arginine-acetate.
[Example 41 Assessment of the stabilization effect of counter ion species using Mab 1 (2)
[124]     As described in Examples 2 and 3, by using glutamic acid as a counter ion species to
histidine and arginine, the stability of Mab 1 was significantly improved to about two to three
folds, in particular during frozen storage.   In this context, a storage stability study at -20'C was
conducted to assess the stability of Mabl at -20'C storage when glutamic acid was used as a
counter ion species to histidine and arginine, and a sugar (trehalose) as a stabilizer.    Liquid
storage and freeze-thawing study were also carried out at the same time.
[125]     Each formulation was prepared as follows: MabI was dialyzed overnight against each
formulated solution (Table 5); then, the solutions were concentrated, and the final concentration
of Mabl was adjusted to 200 mg/ml.        The method for preparing each formulated solution is
described below.     L-Histidine, L-arginine, L-glutamic acid, and trehalose were dissolved in
MilliQ water at 100 mM, 50 mM, 100 mM, and 0 to 150 mM, respectively, and then the
solutions were titrated to pH 6 with 30 to 40 mM L-glutamic acid solution.         The freeze-thawing
study was carried out with ten cycles of freezing at -20'C followed by thawing at room
temperature (slow freeze-thawing).       The amount of aggregate in each formulation after

                                                     24
freeze-thawing or storage at -20'C and 25'C was calculated by the area percentage method using
size exclusion chromatography (SEC).
Table 5
 Formulation list
   No.                 Buffer                      Stabilizer                Sugar              pH
    9
            100mM Histidine-Glutamate      50mM Arginine-Glutamate      50mM Trehabse          6.0
    12   _150mM                                                               Trehalose
[126]     The increased amount (%) of aggregate of each formulation after -20'C storage,
freeze-thawing, and 25'C storage is shown in Figs. 9 to 11.        By adding 50 mM or more
trehalose, a formulation with which the aggregate is hardly increased during storage at -20'C and
freeze-thawing was obtained, as seen from Figs. 9 to 11.         Furthermore, the trehalose
concentration-dependent stabilization effect was observed in the liquid storage at 25'C.        As
described above, the present inventors discovered simple formulations consisting only of amino
acids and sugar, which contribute to the stabilization during both liquid storage and frozen
storage.
|Example 51 Assessment of the stabilization effect of counter ion species using Mab2 (2)
[127]     As described in Example 1, Mab2 was shown to be more stabilized by histidine-chloride
than by histidine-acetate, like MabI (Fig. 2).       Furthermore, as described in Example 2, the
stability in liquid and in frozen conditions of Mabl1 was significantly improved when aspartic
acid or glutamic acid was used instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species to histidine
and arginine.     In this context, the stability of Mab2 during liquid storage (25'C) was used to
assess hydrochloric acid and glutamic acid as a counter ion species to histidine.
Arginine-containing formulations which have high stabilization effect were also assessed at the
same time, and used as a control to compare the stabilization effect observed when glutamic acid
is used as a counter ion species to histidine.
[128]     Each formulation was prepared by the same method as described in Example 1. Mab2
was dialyzed overnight against each formulated solution (Table 3).         Then, the solutions were
concentrated, and the final concentration of Mab2 was adjusted to about 40 to 230 mg/ml.           The
method for preparing the formulated solutions was the same as described in Example 3.           The
concentration of Mab2 in each formulation after sample preparation is shown in Table 4.          The
amount of aggregate in each formulation during two to four weeks of storage at 25'C was
calculated by the area percentage method using size exclusion chromatography (SEC).

                                                  25
[129]     The increased amount (%) of aggregate for each formulation after storage at 25'C is
shown in Fig. 12. The results showed that, unlike in the freeze-thawing study, the stability of
Mab2 was not altered even when glutamic acid was used instead of hydrochloric acid as a
counter ion species to histidine.    The pIs of MabI and Mab2 are 5.8 and 9.3, respectively.
This suggests that the stabilization effect of counter ion species on antibodies with low pI in
liquid storage was significant.
[Example 61 Assessment of stabilization effect of counter ion species using Mab1, Mab2, Mab3,
Mab4, and Mab5
[130]     Mab3 is a bispecific antibody of factor IX and factor X and has an IgG4-derived
constant region. Furthermore, its pI value has been lowered to 6.8 by altering the amino acid
sequence.
[131]     Mab4 is a humanized anti-NR10 antibody (completely humanized NS22 antibody
prepared according to the method described in Example 12 of WO 2009/072604), and its
antibody class is IgG2.    Its pI value has been lowered to 5.6 by altering the amino acid
sequence.
[132]     Mab5 is a humanized anti-glypican 3 antibody (it was humanized by the method
described in Example 24 of WO 2006/006693 and its L chain was altered by the method of
Example 25).     Its antibody class is IgGI.
[133]     As described in Examples 2 and 3, the stability in liquid and frozen conditions of Mabl
and Mab2 were demonstrated to be significantly improved when aspartic acid or glutamic acid
was used instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species to histidine and arginine.     Then,
MabI and Mab2 as well as Mab3, Mab4, and Mab5 which are antibodies modified to have an
isoelectric point of 5 to 8 were used to assess the solution stability and freeze-thawing stability
when hydrochloric acid and aspartic acid is used as a counter ion species to histidine and
arginine.   The pIs of Mabl, Mab2, Mab3, Mab4, and Mab5 are shown in Table 6 below.
Table 6
  -Sample           Mab1           Mab2           Mab3           Mab4           Mab5
       p1             5.8             9.4           6.8            5.6            9.0
[134]     Samples were prepared as follows: MabI, Mab2, Mab3, Mab4, and Mab5 were dialyzed
against each dialysis buffer (Table 7) overnight. Then, each antibody solution was concentrated,
and a stock buffer for each formulation (Table 8) was added thereto so that the final antibody
concentration was adjusted to about 100 to 190 mg/ml.       A list of the formulated solutions

                                                26
prepared as described above is shown in Table 9.    For each formulation, liquid storage study at
25 0 C and freeze-thawing study were carried out.  The freeze-thawing study was carried out in
ten cycles of freezing at -20'C followed by thawing at 25 0 C (slow freeze-thawing).  Following
slow freeze-thawing, the amount of aggregate in each sample was calculated by the area
percentage method using size exclusion chromatography (SEC).
Table 7
    No.      Sample                           Dialysis buffer                             pH
     13       Mab3
     14       Mab3                                 Water
     15       Mab4                       50mM Histidine-Chloride
     16       Mab4                      50mM Histidine-Aspartate
     17       Mab2
     18       Mab2                       20mM Histidine-Chloride                          6.0
     19       Mab1
     20       Mab1
     21       Mab3
                                                   Water
     22       Mab3
     23       Mab5                       20mM Histidine-Chloride
     24       Mab5
Table 8
     No.      Sample                           Stock buffer                              pH
      13       Mab3                      500mM Histidine-Chloride
      14       Mab3                     500mM Histidine-Aspartate
      15       Mab4                       50mM Histidine-Chloride
      16       Mab4                      50mM Histidine-Aspartate
      17       Mab2          20mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
      18       Mab2         20mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate            6.0
      19       Mab1          20mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
      20       Mab1         20mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate
      21       Mab3         200mM Histidine-Chloride, 5OmM Arginine-Chloride
      22       Mab3        200mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate
      23       Mab5          20mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
      24       Mab5         20mM Histidine-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate

                                                      27
Table 9
                                                                                           Mab
   No.     Sample                             formulation                      pH      concentration
                                                                                         (mg/mL)
     13      Mab3                       50mM Histidine-Chloride
     14      Mab3                     50mM Histidine-Aspartate                              100
     15      Mab4                       50mM Histidine-Chloride
     16      Mab4                     50mM Histidine-Aspartate
     17      Mab2        20mM    Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride                 190
     18      Mab2       20mM    Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate    6.0
     19      Mab1        20mM    Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride
    20       Mab1       20mM    Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate                 110
    21       Mab3        20mM    Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride
    22       Mab3       20mM Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate
    23       Mab5        20mM Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride                    120
    24       Mab5       20mM Histidine-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate
[135]     The result on the increased amount (%) of aggregate in each formulation after
freeze-thawing or liquid storage at 25'C is shown in Figs. 13 to 20. Comparison of the
increased amounts of aggregate during liquid storage at 25'C demonstrated that the stability was
comparable between the histidine-aspartate formulation and histidine-chloride formulation, and
between the arginine-aspartate formulation and arginine-chloride formulation (Figs. 13, 15, 17,
and 19).
[136]     Meanwhile, comparison of the increased amounts of aggregate after freeze-thawing
revealed that the stability with the histidine-aspartate formulation was two or more times higher
than that with the histidine-chloride formulation, and the stability with the arginine-aspartate
formulation was higher than that with the arginine-chloride formulation (Figs. 14, 16, 18, and
20).    Thus, the stability in frozen condition of antibody was demonstrated to be significantly
improved by using aspartic acid instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species to histidine
or arginine.
[Example 71 Assessment of stabilization effect of counter ion species using MabI, Mab2, Mab3,
Mab4, and Mab5
[137]     As described in Examples 2, 3, and 6, the stability in liquid and frozen conditions of
antibody was demonstrated to be significantly improved when aspartic acid or glutamic acid was
used instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species in the histidine formulation.    Then,
hydrochloric acid and aspartic acid were used as a counter ion species in the tris(hydroxymethyl)

                                                 28
aminomethane (Tris) formulation, and assessed for the liquid storage stability and
freeze-thawing stability using MabI, Mab2, Mab3, Mab4, and Mab5.
[138]     Samples were prepared as follows: MabI, Mab2, Mab3, Mab4, and Mab5 were dialyzed
against each dialysis buffer (Table 10) overnight. Then, each antibody solution was
concentrated, and a stock buffer for each formulation (Table 11) was added thereto so that the
final antibody concentration was adjusted to about 100 to 110 mg/ml.    A list of the formulated
solutions prepared as described above is shown in Table 12.    For each formulated solution,
storage study at 25'C and freeze-thawing study were carried out.     The freeze-thawing study
was carried out in ten cycles of freezing at -20'C followed by thawing at 25'C (slow
freeze-thawing).    Following slow freeze-thawing, the amount of aggregate in each sample was
calculated by the area percentage method using size exclusion chromatography (SEC).
Table 10
   No.      Sample                             Dialysis buffer                             pH
    25       Mab1                            20mM Tris-Chloride
    26       Mab1                          20mM Tris-Aspartate
    27       Mab2                            20mM Tris-Chloride
    28       Mab2                          20mM Tris-Aspartate
    29       Mab3                                   Water                                  6.5
    30       Mab3                                   Water
    31       Mab4                            20mM Tris-Chloride
    32       Mab4                          20mM Tris-Aspartate
    33       Mab5                            20mM Tris-Chloride
    34       Mab5                          20mM Tris-Aspartate
Table 11
    No.       Sample                             Stock buffer                             pH
     25        Mab1             20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
     26        Mab1            20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate
     27        Mab2             20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
     28        Mab2            20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate
     29        Mab3            200mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride               6.5
     30        Mab3           200mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate
     31        Mab4             20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
     32        Mab4            20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate
     33        Mab5             20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Chloride
     34        Mab5            20mM Tris-Chloride, 500mM Arginine-Aspartate

                                                   29
Table 12
                                                                                              Mab
   No.     Sample                          formulation                           pH      concentration
                                                                                            (mg/mL)
    25      Mab1           20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride
    26      Mab1          20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate
    27      Mab2           20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride                          100
    28      Mab2          20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate
    29      Mab3           20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride            6.5
    30      Mab3          20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate
    31      Mab4           20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride
    32      Mab4          20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate                          110
    33      Mab5           20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Chloride
    34      Mab5          20mM Tris-Chloride, 50mM Arginine-Aspartate
[139]     The result on the increased amount (%) of aggregate in each formulation after
freeze-thawing or liquid storage at 25'C is shown in Figs. 21 and 22. Comparison of the
increased amounts of aggregate during liquid storage at 25'C demonstrated that the stability was
comparable between the Tris-aspartate/arginine-aspartate formulation and
Tris-chloride/arginine-chloride (Fig. 21).
[140]     Meanwhile, comparison of the increased amounts of aggregate after freeze-thawing
revealed that the stability with the Tris-aspartate/arginine-aspartate formulation was higher than
that with the Tris-chloride/arginine-chloride formulation (Fig. 22).      Thus, the stability in frozen
condition of antibody was also demonstrated to be significantly improved by using aspartic acid
instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species in the Tris formulation.
|Example 81 Assessment of stabilization effect of counter ion species to Tris using Mabl1, Mab2,
and Mab3
[141]     As described in Example 7, the stability in frozen condition of antibody was
demonstrated to be significantly improved when aspartic acid was used instead of hydrochloric
acid as a counter ion species in the Tris formulation.      Then, hydrochloric acid and aspartic acid
were used as a counter ion species to Tris, and assessed for the liquid storage stability and
freeze-thawing stability using MabI, Mab2, and Mab3.
[142]     Samples were prepared as follows: MabI, Mab2, and Mab3 were dialyzed against each
dialysis buffer (Table 13) overnight. Then, each antibody solution was concentrated to 100
mg/ml or a higher concentration, and each dialysate was added thereto so that the final antibody
concentration was adjusted to about 100 mg/ml.         A list of the formulated solutions prepared as
described above is shown in Table 14.       Storage study at 25'C and freeze-thawing study were

                                                 30
carried out using each formulated solution.    The freeze-thawing study was carried out in ten
cycles of freezing at -20'C followed by thawing at 25'C (slow freeze-thawing).     Following
slow freeze-thawing, the amount of aggregate in each sample was calculated by the area
percentage method using size exclusion chromatography (SEC).
Table 13
    No.        Sample                    Dialysis buffer                        pH
     35          Mab1                 50mM Tris-Chloride
     36          Mab1                50mM Tris-Aspartate
     37          Mab2                 50mM Tris-Chloride                       6.5
     38          Mab2                50mM Tris-Aspartate
     39          Mab3                 50mM Tris-Chloride
     40          Mab3                50mM Tris-Aspartate
Table 14
                                                                                        Mab
    No.       Sample                     Formulation                       pH       concentration
                                                                                      (mg/mL)
     35         Mab1                50mM Tris-Chloride
     36         Mab1               50mM Tris-Aspartate
     37         Mab2                50mM Tris-Chloride                    6.5           100
     38         Mab2               50mM Tris-Aspartate
     39         Mab3                50mM Tris-Chloride
     40         Mab3               50mM Tris-Aspartate
[143]    The result on the increased amount (%) of aggregate after freeze-thawing or liquid
storage at 25'C in each formulation is shown in Figs. 23 and 24. Comparison of the increased
amounts of aggregate based on this result demonstrated that during both liquid storage at 25'C
and during freeze-thawing, the stability with the Tris-aspartate formulation was higher than that
with the Tris-chloride formulation, and the stability during freeze-thawing was in particular two
or more times higher.    Thus, the antibody stability was also demonstrated to be significantly
improved by using aspartic acid instead of hydrochloric acid as a counter ion species to Tris used
as a buffering agent.

                                                  31
CLAIMS:
1. A stable antibody-comprising formulation comprising histidine-aspartate buffer,
histidine-glutamate buffer, tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer,
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer, arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate.
2. A stable antibody-comprising formulation comprising histidine-aspartate buffer or
histidine-glutamate buffer, and arginine-aspartate or arginine-glutamate.
3. The formulation according to claim 1 or claim 2, which does not substantially comprise
chloride ion and acetate ion.
4. The formulation according to claim 3, wherein the buffer concentration is 5 to 100 mM.
5. The formulation according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the arginine concentration is 5 to
300 mM.
6. The formulation according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein the buffer substantially
comprises only amino acid(s).
7. The formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 6, which additionally comprises a sugar.
8. The formulation according to any one of claims I to 7, wherein the antibody is a humanized
antibody or a human antibody.
9. The formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the antibody has been
modified to have an isoelectric point (pI) of 5 to 8.
10. The formulation according to any one of claims I to 9, wherein the antibody concentration is
50 mg/ml or more.
11. The formulation according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the antibody concentration
is 50 to 250 mg/ml.

                                                32
12. The formulation according to any one of claims I to 11, which is a liquid formulation.
13. The formulation according to claim 12, wherein the viscosity of the liquid formulation is 30
mPa-s or less.
14. The formulation according to claim 12 or claim 13, wherein the liquid formulation is stable
at 2'C to 8'C for at least six months.
15. The formulation according to any one of claims 12 to 14, which has not been subjected to
lyophilization during preparation of the formulation.
16. The formulation according to any one of claims 12 to 15, which is frozen stored at -30'C to
-10C.
17. The formulation according to any one of claims I to 11, wherein the formulation is a
lyophilized formulation.
18. The formulation according to any one of claims I to 17, wherein the antibody is an anti-IL-6
receptor antibody.
19. The formulation according to any one of claims I to 18, which is for subcutaneous
administration.
20. A method for suppressing aggregation formation during frozen storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using a histidine-aspartate buffer,
histidine-glutamate buffer, tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer, or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer.
21. A method for suppressing aggregation formation during liquid storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using a histidine-aspartate buffer,

                                                33
histidine-glutamate buffer, tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-aspartate buffer, or
tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane-glutamate buffer.
22. A method for suppressing aggregation formation during frozen storage of a
highly-concentrated antibody-comprising formulation by using arginine-aspartate or
arginine-glutamate.
23. A method for suppressing aggregation formation during liquid storage of a
highly-concentration antibody-comprising formulation by using arginine-aspartate or
arginine-glutamate.
                               Chugai Siyaku Kabushiki Kaisha
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               1 / 24
FIG. 1

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               2 / 24
FIG. 2

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               3 / 24
FIG. 3

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               4 / 24
FIG. 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               5 / 24
FIG. 5

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               6 / 24
FIG. 6

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               7 / 24
FIG. 7

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               8 / 24
FIG. 8

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               9 / 24
FIG. 9

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                10 / 24
FIG. 10

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                11 / 24
FIG. 11

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                12 / 24
FIG. 12

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                13 / 24
FIG. 13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                14 / 24
FIG. 14

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                15 / 24
FIG. 15

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                16 / 24
FIG. 16

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                17 / 24
FIG. 17

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                18 / 24
FIG. 18

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                19 / 24
FIG. 19

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                20 / 24
FIG. 20

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                21 / 24
FIG. 21

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                22 / 24
FIG. 22

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                23 / 24
FIG. 23

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                24 / 24
FIG. 24

                                                  1
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   CHUGAI SEIYAKU KABUSHIKI KAISHA
              <120>   Stabilized Antibody-containing liquid formulations
              <130>   C1-A0918P
              <150>   JP 2010-010060
              <151>   2010-01-20
<removed-apn>
              <160>   4
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.4
              <210>   1
              <211>   443
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400> 1
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Lys Pro Ser Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Ala Val Ser Gly His Ser Ile Ser His Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Glu Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Phe Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Asn Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Gln Gly Arg Val Thr Ile Ser Arg Asp Asn Ser Lys Asn Thr Leu Tyr
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Gln Met Asn Ser Leu Arg Ala Glu Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190

                                                  2
              Ser Asn Phe Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Thr Cys Asn Val Asp His Lys Pro
<removed-date>
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Thr Val Glu Arg Lys Ser Cys Val Glu
                  210                 215                 220
              Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Pro Val Ala Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser Gln Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Gln
                          260                 265                 270
              Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys
                      275                 280                 285
              Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Phe Asn Ser Thr Phe Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu
                  290                 295                 300
              Thr Val Val His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Val Ser Asn Lys Gly Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser
                          340                 345                 350
              Gln Glu Glu Met Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys
                      355                 360                 365
              Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln
                  370                 375                 380
              Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Met Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln
                              405                 410                 415
              Glu Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Ala
                          420                 425                 430
              His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro
                      435                 440
              <210>   2
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400> 2
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15

                                                  3
              Asp Ser Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Gln Ala Ser Thr Asp Ile Ser Ser His
<removed-date>
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Gly Ser His Leu Leu Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Glu Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Glu Asp Ala Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gly Gln Gly Asn Arg Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Glu Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
              <210>   3
              <211>   449
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   3
              Gln Val Gln Leu Gln Glu Ser Gly Pro Gly Leu Val Arg Pro Ser Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Leu Ser Leu Thr Cys Thr Val Ser Gly Tyr Ser Ile Thr Ser Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              His Ala Trp Ser Trp Val Arg Gln Pro Pro Gly Arg Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45

                                                 4
              Ile Gly Tyr Ile Ser Tyr Ser Gly Ile Thr Thr Tyr Asn Pro Ser Leu
<removed-date>
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Ser Arg Val Thr Met Leu Arg Asp Thr Ser Lys Asn Gln Phe Ser
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Arg Leu Ser Ser Val Thr Ala Ala Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys
                              85                  90                  95
              Ala Arg Ser Leu Ala Arg Thr Thr Ala Met Asp Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly
                          100                 105                 110
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ser Ala Ser Thr Lys Gly Pro Ser Val Phe
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Leu Ala Pro Ser Ser Lys Ser Thr Ser Gly Gly Thr Ala Ala Leu
                  130                 135                 140
              Gly Cys Leu Val Lys Asp Tyr Phe Pro Glu Pro Val Thr Val Ser Trp
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asn Ser Gly Ala Leu Thr Ser Gly Val His Thr Phe Pro Ala Val Leu
                              165                 170                 175
              Gln Ser Ser Gly Leu Tyr Ser Leu Ser Ser Val Val Thr Val Pro Ser
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Ser Leu Gly Thr Gln Thr Tyr Ile Cys Asn Val Asn His Lys Pro
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Asn Thr Lys Val Asp Lys Lys Val Glu Pro Lys Ser Cys Asp Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser
                              245                 250                 255
              Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn
                      275                 280                 285
              Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val
                  290                 295                 300
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr
                          340                 345                 350
              Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr
                      355                 360                 365

                                                  5
<removed-date>
              Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu
<removed-apn>
                          420                 425                 430
              Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
                      435                 440                 445
              Lys
              <210>   4
              <211>   214
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial
              <220>
              <223>   An artificially synthesized peptide sequence
              <400>   4
              Asp Ile Gln Met Thr Gln Ser Pro Ser Ser Leu Ser Ala Ser Val Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Arg Val Thr Ile Thr Cys Arg Ala Ser Gln Asp Ile Ser Ser Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Leu Asn Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Pro Gly Lys Ala Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile
                      35                  40                  45
              Tyr Tyr Thr Ser Arg Leu His Ser Gly Val Pro Ser Arg Phe Ser Gly
                  50                  55                  60
              Ser Gly Ser Gly Thr Asp Phe Thr Phe Thr Ile Ser Ser Leu Gln Pro
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Asp Ile Ala Thr Tyr Tyr Cys Gln Gln Gly Asn Thr Leu Pro Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Thr Phe Gly Gln Gly Thr Lys Val Glu Ile Lys Arg Thr Val Ala Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Pro Ser Val Phe Ile Phe Pro Pro Ser Asp Glu Gln Leu Lys Ser Gly
                      115                 120                 125
              Thr Ala Ser Val Val Cys Leu Leu Asn Asn Phe Tyr Pro Arg Glu Ala
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Val Gln Trp Lys Val Asp Asn Ala Leu Gln Ser Gly Asn Ser Gln
              145                 150                 155                 160

                                                 6
              Glu Ser Val Thr Glu Gln Asp Ser Lys Asp Ser Thr Tyr Ser Leu Ser
<removed-date>
                              165                 170                 175
              Ser Thr Leu Thr Leu Ser Lys Ala Asp Tyr Glu Lys His Lys Val Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ala Cys Glu Val Thr His Gln Gly Leu Ser Ser Pro Val Thr Lys Ser
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asn Arg Gly Glu Cys
                  210
<removed-apn>

