                                             ABSTRACT
A ladder comprising a first pair of rails including a first rail and a second rail spaced apart
from the first rail; a plurality of rungs extending between and coupled to the first rail and the
second rail; a first hook positioned adjacent an upper end of the first rail; a second hook
positioned adjacent an upper end of the second rail; a securing apparatus coupled adjacent the
upper end of the first pair of spaced apart rails, the securing apparatus including: a first
engagement member pivotally coupled with the first rail, a second engagement member
pivotally coupled with the second rail, a cross-member coupled between the first engagement
member and the second engagement member of engagement members wherein, upon
application of force to a portion of at least one of the first engagement member and the second
engagement member by an overhead, horizontal support member, the first engagement
member, the second engagement member and the cross-member cooperatively pivot relative to
the first hook and the second hook.

                                   TITLE OF THE INVENTION
        LADDER SECURING APPARATUSES, LADDERS INCORPORATING SAME
                                   AND RELATED METHODS
        [00011   The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
 Application No. 2013329457, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
 reference.
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001A] The present invention claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
 61/711,632 filed on October 9, 2012, and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
 61/879,508, filed September 18, 2013, the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference
 herein in their entireties.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
       100021    The present invention relates generally to ladders and, more particularly, to
components and features for securing a ladder in a stable working condition as well as related
methods.
                                         BACKGROUND
       [0003]    Ladders are conventionally utilized to provide a user thereof with improved
access to elevated locations that might otherwise be inaccessible. Ladders come in many
shapes and sizes, such as straight ladders, straight extension ladders, stepladders, and
combination step and extension ladders. So-called combination ladders may incorporate, in a
single ladder, many of the benefits of multiple ladder designs.
       [00041    Ladders known as straight ladders or extension ladders are ladders that are
conventionally not self-supporting but, rather, are positioned against an elevated surface, such
as a wall or the edge of a roof, to support the ladder at a desired angle. A user then ascends the
ladder to obtain access to an elevated area, such as access to an upper area of the wall or
access
                                                 -1-

  to a ceiling or roof. A pair of feet or pads, each being coupled to the bottom of an associated rail
  of the ladder, are conventionally used to engage the ground or some other supporting surface.
           [00051    In certain industries, such as in the telecommunications industry, ladders are
  used to access overhead cables or utility lines (e.g., cables or wires used for telephones, cable
 television, etc). In such cases, the ladders are sometimes supported at their upper ends by a
 utility pole or other vertical structure. In some situations, the upper end of the ladder is actually
 supported by a utility line extending generally horizontally between adjacent utility poles or
 towers. In such cases, the ladders have conventionally been fitted with "cable hooks" or "strand
 hooks" which are attached to the top of the ladder and simply hook over the top of the utility
 cable. The top of the ladder, thus, rests against and is supported by the horizontally extending
 utility cable. However, while the cable hooks generally engage the utility cable to provide
 support to the ladder, if the ladder shifts or tilts relative to utility cable (e.g., because of unstable
 ground or because of the user of the ladder leaning out to far to the side and causing the loading
 on the ladder to become unbalanced), one or both of the cable hooks may disengage the utility
 cable such that the ladder loses support and stability. This obviously creates a dangerous
situation for the user of the ladder.
          [00061    Some efforts have been made to provide an engagement device that provides
additional security over traditional cable hooks. For example, U.S. Patent No. 7,219,766 issued
to Deuer on May 22, 2007 (the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety), describes a "mid-span fall protection system" for ladders. The Deuer patent describes
cable hooks, with one of the cable hooks having a latch member pivotally coupled therewith.
The latch functions in conjunction with the cable hook, similar to a gate of a carabineer. When a
utility member pushes upward against the latch member, the latch member is displaced
permitting the utility cable to pass by. The latch member then closes (being biased by a spring
                                                    -2-

 toward the closed position) to capture the utility cable in an area defined by the cable hook and
 the latch. When it is desired to release the utility cable, a user pulls on a line tethered to the latch
 member to keep the latch member open while lifting the ladder to displace the cable hooks away
 from the utility cable. In another example, U.S. Patent No. 5,054,581 issued to Henson on Oct. 8,
  1991 (the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety) describes a
 device that attaches to two vertically adjacent rungs of a ladder and then provides a single point
 attachment to a utility cable.
         [0007]  Also, recognizing the potential for instability in ladders in various circumstances
 (such as the above mentioned "shifting" of the ladder), and in an effort to improve safety of
 ladders generally, some efforts have been made to provide a safety line for coupling with a user's
 harness to help secure a user to the ladder in case of an accidental slip or fall. For example, the
 Deuer patent discloses a rope that is coupled to a cross-member extending between the two side
rails of the ladder. An "auto-latching/locking" mechanism is coupled with the rope which
requires manual release for removal. Such an auto-latching mechanism is described in U.S.
Patent No. 5,855,251 issued to Deuer on Jan. 5, 1999 (the disclosure of which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety).
        [0008]   However, such proposed solutions have not necessarily proved to be entirely
successful and there is a continuing desire in the industry to provide improved functionality of
ladders while also improving the safety and stability of such ladders.
        [0008A] A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior art
is not to be taken as an admission or a suggestion that the document or matter was known, or that
the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of
any of the claims.
        [0008B] Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
"comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended
to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
                                                   -3-

                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        [0009]    The present invention relates to ladders and, more particularly, various
 configurations of ladders, as well as to methods relating to the use and manufacture of ladders.
        [00101    In one embodiment, a ladder is provided comprising:
       a first pair of rails including a first rail and a second rail spaced apart from the first rail;
       a plurality of rungs extending between and coupled to the first rail and the second rail;
       a first hook positioned adjacent an upper end of the first rail;
       a second hook positioned adjacent an upper end of the second rail;
       a securing apparatus coupled adjacent the upper end of the first pair of spaced apart rails,
the securing apparatus including:
              a first engagement member pivotally coupled with the first rail,
              a second engagement member pivotally coupled with the second rail,
       a cross-member coupled between the first engagement member and the second
engagement member of engagement members wherein, upon application of force to a portion
of at least one of the first engagement member and the second engagement member by an
overhead, horizontal support member, the first engagement member, the second engagement
member and the cross-member cooperatively pivot relative to the first hook and the second
hook.
       [00111    In some embodiments, the securing apparatus is lacking any biasing members or
locking members.
       [00121    In some embodiments, the first engagement member and the second engagement
member each includes a slip resistant surface.
       [0013]    In some embodiments, the ladder comprises a second pair of rails and another
plurality of rungs extending between and coupled to the second pair of spaced apart rails, wherein
the second pair of rails are slidably coupled with the first pair of rails.
       [0014)    In some embodiments, the ladder comprises a safety apparatus having a safety line
and an attachment mechanism coupled therewith.
                                                     -4-

        [00151    Preferably, the line is coupled with an inertia locking mechanism.
        [00161    Preferably, the safety line is coupled with a portion of the ladder and extends up
and over the cross-member of the securing apparatus.
        [00171    In some embodiments, each of the first engagement member and the second
engagement member includes a cup portion having a first portion, a second portion and a third
portion, and wherein the first portion and the third portion are positioned at an acute angle relative
to each other.
        [00181    In some embodiments, the first hook and the second hook are each configured to
pivot through an angle of approximately 900 from a first position to a second position wherein,
when in the second position, each hook is substantially within an envelope defined by the first
pair of spaced apart rails.
        [0019]    In some embodiments, the second securing apparatus including a first arm, a
second arm, and a strap member coupled between the first arm and the second arm, wherein the
first arm is pivotal relative to a first rail of the ladder and the second arm is pivotal relative to a
second rail of the ladder.
        [0019A] In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method of securing a ladder, the method comprising:
          providing a ladder having a pair of spaced apart hooks, a pair of spaced apart
engagement members and a cross-member extending between and coupled to the pair of
spaced apart engagement members;
          positioning the ladder such that a cup portion of each engagement member engages an
overhead line;
          displacing the ladder relative to the overhead line to effect concurrent rotation of the
engagement members and cross-member relative to the pair of hooks; and
          encircling the overhead line at two spaced apart locations with the engagement
members and the hooks.
                                                       -5-

 [00201      It is noted that the embodiments described herein are not to be considered mutually
exclusive of one another and that any feature, aspect or component of one embodiment described
herein may be combined with other features, aspects or components of other embodiments.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0021]     The foregoing and other advantages of the invention will become apparent upon
reading the following detailed description and upon reference to the drawings in which:
        [00221     FIG. 1 is a front perspective view of an apparatus for use with a ladder according
to an embodiment of the present invention;
        [00231     FIG. 2 is side view of the apparatus shown in FIG. 1;
        [0024]     FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a ladder having the apparatus of FIG. 1 placed in a
first position in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
                                                    -6-

           [0025]   FIG. 4 is a perspective view of the ladder shown in FIG. 3 with the apparatus
 having been displaced to a second position;
          [0026]    FIG. 5 is a side view of the ladder shown in FIG. 3;
          [0027]    FIGS. 6A-6C are side views of a portion of the ladder shown in FIG. 3 with a
 component in various positions or stages or use;
          [00281    FIG. 7 is a front view of a portion of the ladder shown in FIG. 3;
          [0029]   FIGS. 8A-8C show various views of a securing apparatus that may be used
 with a ladder in accordance with another embodiment of the invention.
                  BEST MODE(S) FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
          [0030]   Referring initially to FIGS. 1 and 2, a securing apparatus 100 is shown for use
with a ladder when it is desired to support the ladder using a generally horizontally extending
overhead line (e.g., a utility line such as used in the telecommunications industry). The
apparatus 100 includes two spaced apart engagement members 102 that may be coupled together
by a cross-member 104 which may include, for example, a bar or a plate member. While the
distance that the engagement members are spaced from each other may be determined, at least in
part, on the size of the ladder (e.g., the spacing of the rails from one another), in one example,
the engagement members 102 may be spaced approximately 18 inches to 24 inches away from
one another. Each of the engagement members 102 are pivotally coupled to an associated
bracket 106 by way of a pin or shaft 108.
         [00311    The brackets 106 are configured for attachment with associated rails of a
ladder (e.g., an extension ladder) such as by way of a rivet, a screw, bolt or other appropriate
means (including adhesives, welding or other joining methods depending on the materials being
used). In other embodiments, the brackets 106 may be integrally formed in the rails of the
                                                  -7-

  ladder or the pin/shaft 108 may be coupled directly to the rails of the ladder. Additionally, while
 shown as a simple pin or shaft 108, the pivoting arrangement between the engagement member
  102 and its associated bracket 106 (or ladder rail) may include any of a variety of known bearing
 mechanisms.
          [0032]    A stop member 110 may be provided in association with either or both
 brackets 108 to prevent the engagement members 102 from rotating beyond a desired point. For
 example, referring specifically to FIG. 2, if the apparatus were coupled with a ladder (as will be
 discussed in further detail below), absent other forces being applied to the engagement members
 102, gravity would cause the engagement members 102 to rotate clockwise about the pin or
 shaft 108 (based on the orientation shown in FIG. 2) until a portion of the engagement member
 102 (e.g., an abutment surface 111) abuts the stop member 110. The stop member 110, in
 conjunction with gravity, thus, holds engagement member 102 in a desired position relative to
the side rails of a ladder by preventing it from rotating further. Other stop members may
 additionally, or alternatively, be employed if desired. For example, in another embodiment, the
cross member 104 may be configured to abut a top portion of the rails of a ladder to impede
further rotation and to place the mechanism in a desired position for engagement with a utility
line or other support member.
         [0033]    The engagement members 102 include a cup portion 112 having an upper
portion 112A, a central portion 1 12B and a lower portion 1 12B. In the embodiment shown, the
central portion 1 12B includes an arcuate section that extends through an arc angle of greater
than 900. In other embodiments, the arcuate section may be replaced by an angle (or a series of
angles) such that the upper portion 1 12A lies at an acute angle relative to the lower portion
112C. In another embodiment, the upper portion 112A and the lower portion 112C may be
configured to extend substantially parallel to each other. The cup portion 112 is configured to
                                                 -8-

 receive a portion of an overhead line therein (as will be further discussed below). The surface of
 the cup portion 112 may be textured and may be formed of, or coated with, a material to provide
 fictional resistance when it engages an overhead line. For example, the cup portion 112 may be
 covered with a rubber material having a plurality of ridges, raised sections or other surface
 features 114 that are configured to help frictionally engage or grip a portion of a utility cable or
 overhead line. Additionally, the material covering of the cup portion 112 may assist in
protecting the overhead line from damage when being engaged by the apparatus 100.
          [0034J    The apparatus 100 may be formed from a variety of materials using various
methods of manufacturing as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. For
example, the engagement members 102, the cross-member 104 and the brackets 106 may be
formed of metal, metal alloys, plastic materials, composite materials or various combinations of
such materials. Such components may be formed by various techniques including machining,
molding, stamping, forging, extruding and so forth. In one particular embodiment, the
engagement members 102 are formed of an aluminum material with the cross-member 104 with
the brackets being formed of a metal or metal alloy. In another embodiment, the engagement
members 102 may be formed of a plastic material. As seen in FIGS. 1 and 2, the engagement
members 102 may be formed to include a peripheral wall member 116 and one or more inner
structurally reinforcing members 118 defining various openings or cells 120. Such a
configuration provides appropriate strength for the apparatus while reducing the weight of the
apparatus significantly. Of course, other structural configurations may be used in forming the
engagement members 102 as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.
         [00351    It is noted that the apparatus 100, according to the embodiment shown in FIGS.
1 and 2, does not include any springs, biasing members, actuators or locking mechanisms.
Rather, the apparatus 100 utilizes gravity in conjunction with the positioning of the ladder by a
                                                  -9-

  user thereof to engage, and maintain such engagement with, an overhead line. Additionally, as
  will be seen with further discussion below, no locks or actuators are required to be activated by a
  user either while on the ladder, or while standing at the base of the ladder, to release the
  apparatus from an overhead line. Rather, all that a user has to do to disengage the over head line
  is to lift the ladder as one would normally do with conventional cable hooks.
            [00361    Referring now to FIGS. 3 and 4, a ladder 200 is shown that includes a securing
  apparatus 100 such as described above. The ladder 200 is configured as an extension ladder and
 includes a first assembly 202 and a second assembly 204 slidably coupled with the first
 assembly. The first assembly 202 includes a pair of spaced apart rails 206A and 206B with a
 plurality of rungs 208 extending between, and coupled to, the rails 206A and 206B. Similarly,
 the second assembly 204 includes a pair of spaced apart rails 21 OA and 21 0B with a plurality of
 rungs 212 extending between, and coupled to, the rails 210A and 2 1OB. While not specifically
 shown in the drawings, one or more mechanisms are associated with the first and second
 assemblies 202 and 204 to enable selective positioning of the first assembly 202 relative to the
second assembly 204. This enables the ladder 200 to assume a variety of lengths (or, more
specifically, heights when in an intended operating orientation) by sliding the first assembly 202
relative to the second assembly 204 and locking the two assemblies in a desired position relative
to one another. By selectively adjusting the two rail assemblies 202 and 204 relative to each
other, a ladder can be extended in length to nearly double its collapsed or shortest state, as will
be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. By way of example, a rung lock apparatus is
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,429,207 to Frank et al., issued July 4, 1995, the disclosure of
which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
           [0037]    In many conventional extension ladders, feet members may be coupled to the
lower ends of the rails 210A and 210B to support the ladder on the ground or other surface.
                                                -10-

  Such a configuration is contemplated as being used in other embodiments of the present
  invention. In the specific embodiment shown, adjustable support members 214 are coupled with
  the second assembly 204 to provide increased lateral stability as well as the ability to adjust the
  ladder for support on uneven surfaces. An example of such adjusting members is described in
  U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 20100300805 (Application No. 12/714,313)
  published on Dec. 2, 2010, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its
  entirety. Again, as noted above, the present invention is not limited to particular types of ladders
  and may be implemented in conjunction with conventional extension ladders, straight ladders or
 even combination ladders if desired.
           [0038]   The ladder 200 further includes a brace member, referred to as a V-bar 220,
 located at the upper end of the first assembly 202 which extends between and is coupled to the
 rails 206A and 206B of the first assembly 202. The V-bar 220 is shaped to engage a vertical
 structure, such as a utility pole, and be supported thereby. While not specifically shown, the
 inner surface of the V-bar 220 (the surface that will engage a support structure) may be textured,
 coated, include protruding members (e.g., barbs or prongs), include an undulating surface, or
otherwise configured to provide slip resistance when positioned against a vertical supporting
structure such as a utility pole.
          [0039]   Additionally, the ladder 200 includes a pair of hooks 222 (e.g., cable hooks),
one associated with each rail 206A and 206B of the first assembly 202. The hooks 222 are
configured to be positioned over and rest down upon an overhead line. As will be appreciated
by those of ordinary skill in the art, the hooks 222 may be configured to be rotated from the
position shown to a "stored" position so that they are largely placed within the envelope or
volume defined by the rails 206A and 206B of the first assembly. Thus, for example, the hooks
222 may be selectively positioned in a first position with the hook ends extending to the
                                                - 11 -

  backside of the ladder (as shown in the drawings) or in a second position where the hook ends
  are positioned between the two rails 206A and 206B, a rotation of approximately 90'.
           [00401    As shown in FIGS. 3 and 4, the securing apparatus 100 is coupled to first
  assembly 202 and is in a first position prior to engagement of an overhead line 230. When in
  this position, the cup portion 112 of the apparatus 100 and the open ends of the hooks 222 are
 positioned above the overhead line 230, ready for engagement therewith. This is also shown, in
  larger side view, in FIG. 5A. As shown in FIG. 5B, by lowering the upper portion of the ladder
 200, the engagement members 102 are positioned to contact the overhead line 230, or, more
 specifically, the cup portions 112 of the engagement members 102 contact the overhead line
 230. This results in the engagement members 102 (and associated cross member 104) rotating
 about the shaft/pin 108 as the hooks 222 begin to descend over the overhead line 230. As shown
 in FIG. 5C, the upper portion of the ladder 200 is lowered to point where the overhead line 230
 is captured within the hooks 222. At the same time, the engagement members 102 continue to
rotate, by virtue of the overhead line "pushing up" against the upper portion 112A (or even the
middle portion 112B) of the engagement member's cup portion 112. When the hook 222 is
engaging the overhead line - supporting the upper end of the ladder 200 in this position - the
engagement member 102 is positioned such that the overhead line is encircled by the
combination of the hook 222 and the cup portion 112 of the engagement member 102. It is
noted that the lower portion 112C of the engagement member's cup portion 112 extends towards
the outer end of the hook 222, across the otherwise open area of the hook 222, to help form this
encircling structure.
          [0041]    Thus, as shown in FIGS. 5C, 6 and 7, the overhead line 230 is encircled at two,
spaced apart locations by structures defined in part by the hooks 222 and in part by the
engagement members 102. The securement of the ladder 200 to the overhead line 230 remains
                                                 -12-

  in place by reason of gravity and the cooperative positioning of the hooks 222 with the
  engagement members 102. As long as a user is on the ladder 200, the additional weight of the
  user, combined with the weight of the ladder, continues to keep the ladder secured with the
  combined weight pulling down on the overhead line 230 through the hooks 222, the overhead
  line 230 in turn pushing up against the upper and/or middle portion 112A and 112B of the
  engagement member's cup portion 112 to keep the engagement members 102 rotated in the
 position shown in FIGS. 5C, 6 and 7 and keeping the overhead line encircled. Even if the ladder
 200 were to somehow shift laterally (e.g., because the user is leaning over to one side of the
 other), because the two engagement members 102 are coupled together by the cross-member,
 both engagement members 102 will remain in position encircling the overhead line 230. In prior
 art ladders which, for example, only used hooks in an effort to secure the ladder, shifting of the
 ladder would potentially enable one of the hooks to disengage the overhead line such that the
 ladder was only supported by a single hook, permitting the ladder to spin or twist in a dangerous
manner.
          [00421    It is noted, however, that the cross-member need not be used in every
embodiment. Indeed, the cross-member may be eliminated and the engagement members 102
may operate independent of one another (although each would continue to operate cooperatively
with its associated hook 222). It is additionally noted that, while function of the engagement
members 102 and hooks 222 is discussed in regard to the example of a "cable" or utility line,
that the securing apparatus 100 may be utilized with other horizontal support members,
including, for example, rigid bars or poles, such as may be coupled to a wall, roof line or other
structure.
         [00431     To remove the ladder from the supporting overhead line 230, a user merely
needs to lift the ladder 200, or more correctly, displace the upper portion of the ladder 200
                                                  - 13 -

  upwards until the hooks 222 are above the overhead line 230, and then remove the ladder 200.
  As the upper portion of the ladder 200 is displaced upwards, gravity causes the engagement
  members 102 to rotate enabling the overhead line 230 to escape from the cup portion 112. In
  other words, starting from the position shown in FIG. 5C, as the upper portion of the ladder 200
  is displaced upwards, the engagement member 102 would rotate clockwise (based on the
 orientation shown in FIG. 5C), due to gravity, to the positions shown first in FIG. 5B and then in
 FIG. 5A, releasing the overhead line 230.
           [0044]   Thus, the present securing apparatus does not require that any locks or
 actuating mechanisms be attended to prior to setting the ladder up against the overhead line or
 when the ladder is to be removed from the site. Similarly, there are no locks that need to be
 attended to after ascension of the ladder or that need to be unlocked prior to descending the
 ladder - such configurations presenting an operational safety hazard since the ladder is
 "unlocked" or unsecured for a brief moment while the user ascends or descends the ladder.
          [00451   It is noted that the embodiments discussed above depict the engagement
 members 102 being positioned outside the rails 206A and 206B of the ladder 200. In other
 embodiments, the engagement members could be positioned inwardly of the rails 206A and
206B and, even, inwardly of the hooks 222 if desired.
          [0046]   With continued reference to FIGS. 5C, 6 and 7, a safety apparatus 300 is
shown in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention. The safety apparatus
300 includes a cable, rope, chain, strap or other elongated, flexible member (referred to
generally as a line 302) coupled to the first assembly 202 of the ladder. An attachment
mechanism 304 such as a hook or carabineer is attached to one end of the line 302 for coupling
to, for example, a harness or safety belt of a user. The other end of the line 302 may be coupled
to a retraction and locking mechanism 306 which is coupled to, for example, the first assembly
                                                -14-

  202 (although in other embodiments, it may be attached to other components of the ladder 200
  including direct attachment to the apparatus 100 if desired). In one example, the retraction and
  locking mechanism 306 may include a mechanism such as described in U.S. Patent No.
  3,917,189 to Bryll, the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
 Another example of a retraction/locking mechanism includes the self-retracting line known as
 RL20G/2FT MightyLite available from Miller ®, a Honeywell company.
          [00471     Thus, a user may couple the line 302 to their harness or safety belt and, as they
 ascend the ladder 200, the line will automatically retract within the mechanism 306. Similarly,
 as the user descends the ladder 200 at a controlled pace, the mechanism will allow the line to
 pay out so that the user may reach the bottom of the ladder 200 without the line 302 "catching"
 or stopping the user's descent. However, if a user happens to slip or fall while coupled to the
 line 302, the mechanism will, by virtue of the quick acceleration of the line, lock the line and
prevent it from paying out any further, keeping the user from falling a substantial distance.
         [00481     It is noted that, in one embodiment (as shown in FIGS. 5C, 6 and 7), the line
302 may be coupled with the first assembly 202 such that it extends up and over the cross
member 104 of the securing apparatus 100. In such a configuration, if a user were to fall, the
weight of the user would be applied to the cross-member 104 ensuring that the engagement
members did not release an overhead line 230. In fact, the rotation of the engagement members
 102 due to the application of such force would actually cause the engagement members 102 to
more strongly grip the overhead line 230, ensuring that the ladder 200 did not disengage the
overhead line while a user was regaining a stable position on the ladder 200. In other
embodiments, the retraction mechanism 306 may be coupled directly to the securing apparatus
100 (e.g., to the cross-member 104), or various other arrangements may be used in coupling one
or more of the various components of the safety apparatus 300 to the ladder 200, the securing
                                                 - 15 -

   apparatus 100, or to both. Of course, other safety lines may be used in a similar manner without
   a retraction mechanism.
             [0049]  Other embodiments of fall arrest systems may also be utilized in conjunction
  with the ladders and assemblies described herein. For example, a fall arrest system such as
  described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/879,506, filed on September 18, 2013,
  the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
            [00501   Referring now to FIGS. 8A-8C, another securing apparatus 400 is shown. The
  securing apparatus 400 is configured to engage a vertical support (e.g., a utility pole) and may be
  used, for example, by itself or in conjunction with the apparatus 100 described above or other
  securing or safety mechanisms. The securing apparatus 400 includes a pair of spaced apart
  brackets 402 configured to be coupled with the side rails of a ladder. A v-shaped cross-member
  404 (also referred to as a V-bar) is coupled between the brackets 402 and configured to engage a
 vertical structure. It is noted that, for example, when used in conjunction with the apparatus 100
 described above, the securing apparatus 400 may generally replace the V-bar 220 previously
 described.
           [0051]   The apparatus 400 further includes a pair of arms 406, each being pivotally
 coupled with an associated bracket 402 (e.g., by way of a shaft or pivot pin). A locking
 mechanism, such as a ratcheting mechanism 408, may be associated with the pivoting arms 406
 (e.g., by way of a shaft or pivot pin) to enable the arms 406 to rotate in a first direction (i.e.,
inward towards each other), but inhibit rotation of the arms in a second direction (i.e., outward
away from each other) until the ratcheting mechanism 408 is released.
          [0052]    A flexible cross member, such as a strap 410, extends between and is coupled
to the pair of pivoting arms 406. During positioning of a ladder, the strap 410 will engage a
vertical structure (e.g., a utility pole) prior to the v-bar 404 engaging the vertical structure.
                                                   -16-

 When the strap 404 is displaced by the vertical structure, it places a force on the arms 406,
 pulling them inwardly, until the vertical structure abuts the cross-member 404. This action
 causes the arms 406 to engage the vertical structure (e.g., the sides of a pole) such that an
 engagement structure 412 associated with the arms 406 grasps the structure. The engagement
 structure 412 may include teeth, barbs, roughened surfaces or other features in order to provide a
 more positive engagement between the arms 406 of the apparatus 400 and the vertical support
 structure. In the embodiment shown, the engagement structures 412 include a toothed gear
 structure that may rotate relative to its arm 406 when engaging and disengaging the pole or other
support. When it is desired to release the arms 406 from the vertical structure, a lock associated
with the ratcheting mechanism 408 may be actuated to enable the arms 406 to be displaced
outwardly from one another. In one embodiment, a biasing member (e.g., a spring) may be
associated with each of the arms 406 to cause them to be biased outwardly.
         [00531    While the invention may be susceptible to various modifications and
alternative forms, specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings
and have been described in detail herein. However, it should be understood that the invention is
not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather, the invention includes all
modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as
defined by the following appended claims.
                                                 -17-

         THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.      A ladder comprising:
         a first pair of rails including a first rail and a second rail spaced apart from the first rail;
         a plurality of rungs extending between and coupled to the first rail and the second rail;
         a first hook positioned adjacent an upper end of the first rail;
         a second hook positioned adjacent an upper end of the second rail;
         a securing apparatus coupled adjacent the upper end of the first pair of spaced apart
rails, the securing apparatus including:
                  a first engagement member pivotally coupled with the first rail,
                  a second engagement member pivotally coupled with the second rail,
                  a cross-member coupled between the first engagement member and the second
         engagement member of engagement members wherein, upon application of force to a
         portion of at least one of the first engagement member and the second engagement
         member by an overhead, horizontal support member, the first engagement member, the
         second engagement member and the cross-member cooperatively pivot relative to the
         first hook and the second hook.
2.       The ladder of claim 1, wherein the securing apparatus is lacking any biasing members
or locking members.
3.       The ladder of any preceding claim, wherein the first engagement member and the
second engagement member each includes a slip resistant surface.
4.       The ladder of any preceding claim, further comprising a second pair of rails and
another plurality of rungs extending between and coupled to the second pair of spaced apart
rails, wherein the second pair of rails are slidably coupled with the first pair of rails.
5.       The ladder of any preceding claim, further comprising a safety apparatus having a
safety line and an attachment mechanism coupled therewith.
6.       The ladder of claim 5, wherein the line is coupled with an inertia locking mechanism.
                                                     -18-

7.       The ladder of claim 5 or 6, wherein the safety line is coupled with a portion of the
ladder and extends up and over the cross-member of the securing apparatus.
8.       The ladder of any preceding claim, wherein each of the first engagement member and
the second engagement member includes a cup portion having a first portion, a second portion
and a third portion, and wherein the first portion and the third portion are positioned at an
acute angle relative to each other.
9.       The ladder of claim 8, wherein the second portion includes a substantially arcuate
surface.
10.     The ladder of any preceding claim, wherein the first hook and the second hook are
each configured to pivot through an angle of approximately 900 from a first position to a
second position wherein, when in the second position, each hook is substantially within an
envelope defined by the first pair of spaced apart rails.
11.     The ladder of any preceding claim, further comprising a second securing apparatus, the
second securing apparatus including a first arm, a second arm, and a strap member coupled
between the first arm and the second arm, wherein the first arm is pivotal relative to a first rail
of the ladder and the second arm is pivotal relative to a second rail of the ladder.
12.     A method of securing a ladder, the method comprising:
providing a ladder having a pair of spaced apart hooks, a pair of spaced apart engagement
members and a cross-member extending between and coupled to the pair of spaced apart
engagement members;
        positioning the ladder such that a cup portion of each engagement member engages an
overhead line;
        displacing the ladder relative to the overhead line to effect concurrent rotation of the
engagement members and cross-member relative to the pair of hooks; and
        encircling the overhead line at two spaced apart locations with the engagement
members and the hooks.
                                                -19-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
