                                             Abstract
The present invention provides an electronic educational toy or building system is
provided that teaches the logic of programming                   and circuit building without
requiring expertise     in either. The modular block building system consists of pre
assembled printed circuit boards (PCB) interconnected by small magnets. Some blocks
respond to external events such as mechanical forces, touch, proximity, radio frequency
signals, environmental conditions, etc. Other blocks are pre-programmed such as
synthesizers, oscillators, etc. Still other blocks simply pass current like wire blocks. Yet other
blocks provide current such as power blocks/modules. In some aspects, the system includes
modules having many different manners of interaction between the modules. The interaction
between modules, not the modules themselves, may form the building blocks of the creative
platform.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
         MODULAR ELECTRONIC BUILDING SYSTEMS WITH MAGNETIC
           INTERCONNECTIONS AND METHODS OF USING THE SAME
                                   RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S Provisional Application
No.    61/728,103,     entitled  "Modular    Electronic   Building   Systems   with    Magnetic
Interconnections and Methods of Using the Same," filed November 19, 2012, and is a
continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application No. 13/593,891, entitled "Modular Electronic
Building Systems with Magnetic Interconnections and Methods of Using the Same," filed
August 24, 2012, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/527,860, filed August 26, 2011; each of the disclosures of which is incorporated herein by
reference in its entirety.
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      The present invention relates to the field of electronics and, more particularly, to
electronic building blocks and toy building sets.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0003]      Currently, people spend many hours a day with technological devices, but most
don't know how they work, or how to make their own. For all the interactivity of these
devices, people are bound to passive consumption.           Furthermore, playing, creating, or
integrating electronics into projects, toys and products is intimidating, time consuming,
requires an expert skill set, as well as specialized hardware/software platforms. People are
afraid to connect electronic objects the wrong way, or to electrocute themselves. This makes
building objects with lights, sounds, buttons and other electronic components very difficult
and prohibitive to kids, young students, designers, non-engineers, and others lacking
necessary experience.        But as advances in the miniaturization of technology increase,
electronics need to become more accessible to non-experts in a cost effective manner.
[0004]      It becomes therefore clear that there is an opportunity and need to create a simple,
easy to use, accessible electronic building block platform that can still enable the creation of
complex, interdependent systems.       Such a platform would enhance learning, enable 21st
century experimentation and promote innovation. Also, what is needed is a system that acts
like an additional material in the creative process and allows children and adults to combine
and incorporate the system or its parts with other traditional materials such as paper,
cardboard and screws.
                                                  1.

     WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
[0005]       The following references provide background information and are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety:    Ayah Bdeir, (2009), Electronics as material:
littleBits, In Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Tangible and Embedded
Interaction       (TEI     '09),    ACM,      New       York,       NY,       USA,     397-400,
DOI=10.1145/1517664.1517743, at http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1517664.1517743; and Ayah
Bdeir and Ted Ullrich, (2010), Electronics as material: littleBits, In Proceedings of the fifth
internationalconference on Tangible, embedded, and embodied interaction (TEI '11), ACM,
New         York,     NY,      USA,     341-344,       DOI=10.1145/1935701.1935781,           at
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1935701.193578 1.
                                         SUMMARY
[0006]       In some exemplary aspects, an electronic educational toy or building system is
provided that teaches the logic of programming and circuit building without requiring
expertise in either. The modular block building system consists of pre-assembled printed
circuit boards (PCB) interconnected by small magnets. Each block performs one or more
discrete functions (e.g., an LED, a pushbutton, a light sensor with a threshold, etc.), and the
blocks can be combined to create larger circuits.     Some blocks respond to external events
such as mechanical forces, touch, proximity, radio frequency signals, environmental
conditions, etc. Other blocks are pre-programmed such as synthesizers, oscillators, etc. Still
other blocks simply pass current like wire blocks. Yet other blocks provide current such as
power blocks/modules.
[0007]       In some aspects, the system includes modules having many different manners of
interaction between the modules.       The interaction between modules, not the modules
themselves, may form the building blocks of the creative platform. In previous electronic kits
the electronic component may be at the center of the manipulation: resistors, capacitors,
batteries, etc.   By manipulating the modules in those kits, children learn how electricity
flows, how to design a circuit, or how to identify components. This knowledge, however, is
application specific and features only a single circuit. It has little or no bearing on how the
touch sensitive wheel of an iPodTM works, for example, or how a nightlight works, or how a
cell phone vibrates, or how a phone can detect rotation and automatically rotate images on the
screen in response to that rotation, or how to make one's own objects that have that
interactivity. While we are a society obsessed with increasingly complex electronic devices
(such as, for example, DVD players, MP3 players, cell phones, smoke alarms), the current
                                                2.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
learning tools on the market only teach the very basics of electronics and electricity, such as
allowing us to turn on a light or see current flow. There is a widening gap between what is
taught to the average American and what is both used and consumed by that American. This
is also why most electronic kits and toys are very short-lived in that the kits and toys are not
relevant to user's day-to-day life. To date, there is no way for children or adults to be able to
create their own interactive objects with custom-designed interactive behavior, without
having to program or learn the many complexities involved with advanced electronics. With
the present modular system, people will be able to program interactivity intuitively and in a
tangible way.
[0008]      The description and drawings herein are meant as an illustration of one or more
exemplary embodiments of the invention, but should not be considered limiting or restrictive.
As such, there are a number of manners of modification without departing from the spirit and
scope of the invention.      In the following text, the words block and module may be used
interchangeably to signify the modular circuit boards.
[0009]      The modules may be divided into categories corresponding to their function.
Examples of categories include, but are not limited to: power modules, input modules, output
modules, wire modules, etc. Power modules for instance take current from a battery, a wall
wart, or other power source, and convert it into current feeding the other components of the
system. In any working configuration of modules, there may be at least one power module.
Input modules include, but are not limited to: buttons, switches, sensors, logic blocks, etc.
Output modules include, but are not limited to: LEDs, displays, sound modules, etc. Wire
modules do not perform a particular function, but act as wire extensions, configuration
changers, and in some cases logic and state modules.
[0010]      In one exemplary embodiment, standalone blocks are provided that may enable
users, with little or no electronics or programming experience, to construct basic and complex
sensor and interaction-based analog and digital circuits.
[0011]      In another exemplary embodiment, the general electrical operation of the system
is as follows. All modules may include a standard interface and communicate automatically
when connected.         Each module includes three electrical lines and such lines are
interconnected between and throughout all modules. These lines include Power, Signal and
Ground. At the power modules, Power and Signal lines are at 5 Volts, the system is low
                                                  3.

    WO 2014/032043                                                          PCT/US2013/056599
power, and the Power and Ground lines are shared among all the modules.                  In other
exemplary embodiments, the power may be something other than 5 Volts such as, for
example, 3V, 9V, 12V, 15V, alternating current (AC), etc. Input modules take the incoming
control Signal line, and manipulate it according to the module's function, and output the
modified Signal voltage. In the case of a pressure sensor connected to a power module, for
instance, the sensor module takes 5 Volts into the Signal line, and outputs a voltage between
0 and 5 Volts depending on the amount of pressure applied to the sensor. Output modules
respond to the Signal line by "visualizing" the voltage in light, sound, display or other forms.
[0012]      All modules are pre-assembled, pre-engineered, and contain the logic and circuitry
required to make the component readily usable. For instance, an LED module contains a
resistor corresponding to its current rating, an Operation Amplifier (OpAmp) as a buffer from
the remainder of the circuit, and a coin cell battery module incorporates a discharge
protection circuit. In some exemplary embodiments, the system requires no prior knowledge
of electronics and does not require any hardware or software platform. In other exemplary
embodiments, the system may include a hardware and/or software platform. Also, in some
exemplary embodiments, since the modules do not need to be programmed and do not require
a central circuit controlling them, the system is standalone and does not need a computer or
hub. However, according to one exemplary embodiment, the system may be connected to a
device such as a computer, hub, memory storage, or personal electronic mobile device such
as a cellular phone, smart phone, etc., in order to create additional functionality or to retrieve
information or power from the device.
[0013]      In some aspects, the modules are designed to couple together and cascade one
after the next. The modules include magnetic connectors that ensure electrical connectivity
and may be developed and mounted on the PCB. The magnetic connectors may be in male
form and female form, and in some examples may correspond to north and south faces of
magnets. For standard blocks, each block may have two magnetic connectors mounted on it,
one with the north face of the magnet(s) facing out and the other with the south face of the
magnet(s) facing out.      The south facing side of the magnetic connector of one module
connects to the north facing side of the magnetic connector on the next module. This ensures
proper connection and appropriate polarity. The repelling polarities inhibit the magnets from
connecting in an inappropriate manner to facilitate connecting of the modules in the correct
manner.
                                                  4.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
[0014]      In another exemplary embodiment, the magnetic connector includes two magnets
and three conductors embedded in an injection molded plastic body. The two magnets act as
polarizing and locking elements, whereas the conductors carry the signal from one circuit
board to the next through the mating of the male and female connectors. In the male version
of the connector, the three conductors are spring probes.        On the female version of the
connector, the conductors may either be spring probes or small metal plates. Either way, the
spring probes or the metal plates come into contact with the spring probes of the male
connector and transfer the electrical signals into the circuit board. The magnetic connector
also features an interlocking system as part of the plastic casing in the form of male and
female complementary components.        In one example, a male protrusion is included on one
block and a female indentation is included on a second block. The protrusion and indentation
cooperate to inhibit the blocks from sliding with respect to each other. In another example, a
male protrusion and a female indentation are included on each block and the male protrusions
and the female indentations on interfacing blocks cooperate to inhibit the blocks from sliding
with respect to each other.
[0015]      According to one exemplary embodiment, the magnetic connector also features an
interlocking system as part of the plastic casing in order to inhibit the modules from sliding
side-to-side with respect to each other, and to ensure that the modules are assembled in the
correct orientation (i.e., to inhibit an upside-down connection).        To inhibit side-to-side
movement, the connectors can include a protrusion on the male or female side that
corresponds to an indentation on the corresponding female or male side. Once the modules
are connected, the protrusion enters the indentation and the modules are sufficiently locked
together such that side-to-side movement is inhibited. In another embodiment, the connectors
can include a tabbed feature to inhibit side-to-side movement. For example, as shown in Fig.
12, the portion of the connector nearest the circuit board (the "base") includes both a rounded
tab that protrudes laterally from the connector and a rounded indentation adjacent to the tab.
A corresponding connector will include a rounded tab and indent in a configuration such that
when the two connectors are adjoined, the rounded tab of the first connector inserts into the
rounded protrusion of the second connector, and the rounded tab of the second connector
inserts into the rounded protrusion of the first connector, thereby locking the two connectors
together such that side-to-side movement is prevented. To prevent upside-down connections,
the connectors can include one or more protrusions. For example, as shown in Fig. 12, the
portion of the connector furthest from the circuit board (the "top") includes a series of
                                                  5.

    WO 2014/032043                                                          PCT/US2013/056599
horizontal protrusions.      When two modules are adjoined by the user, the horizontal
protrusions on the two modules will properly align. Further, due to the rounded tab at the
bottom of the connector, as shown in Fig. 12 for example, if a second connector was adjoined
upside-down, the horizontal protrusions of the second connector would hit the rounded tab of
the first connector and prevent the two connectors from properly adjoining.
[0016]       In addition to the previously described exemplary connectors, many modifications
to the connectors are possible, including, but not limited to, the casing, the type of conductors
used, the number of conductors, as well as whether or not the magnets are acting as
conductors, the number of magnets, the shape of the magnets, the polarity of the magnets, the
manner in which the connectors couple to the circuit board of the block, etc.
[0017]       In order for the system to be expressive and broaden, rather than constrain
creativity, the number of available modules needs to be plenty. In general, only having a few
nuts and bolts in the prototyping process is not very helpful, and alternatively can even be
prohibitive. The present invention allows for the addition of new modules according to the
interconnection and voltage standards.       For example, starting from a set of a hundred
modules, we can imagine and design hundreds or thousands of additional modules that fit and
cooperate with the present system to extend the system's functionality. For example, we can
potentially build modules such as galvanic skin sensors, arsenic detectors, microcontroller
modules, etc., as well as adapter boards to other electronic block building systems and
interfaces.
[0018]       At least one exemplary embodiment has been designed to allow for complex
behaviors programmed through physical interaction. The set features logic and state modules
that introduce the concept of programming to novices. Examples of such modules are the
AND, OR and NOT blocks, as well as the Threshold block. These enable the user to program
certain behaviors of his/her designed system without needing to learn a programming
language, to write code on a computer, or to program a microcontroller circuit. Programming
here is done through using logic modules to create decision trees. Also, modules feature
controls such as switches, knobs and buttons that enable selection of modes of behavior. Just
like a blender can have three buttons, each button corresponding to a particular speed of its
motor, some modules in the present invention allow for the selection of a mode or adjustment
of their behavior. For instance, a proximity sensor block can contain a mode switch and a
potentiometer. Through the manipulation of the embedded potentiometer, the threshold level
                                                  6.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
can be set, determining the input voltage level beyond which the module should output a
high. Also, by flipping the switch, the module can go from normally-high to normally-low,
in essence inverting its response to the desired threshold.
[0019]      All blocks may be designed with space constraints in mind and may be kept at the
minimum size possible in order to make the blocks easily integrable with other materials such
as, for example, cardboard, plastic, pipe cleaners, etc. The blocks are user friendly in their
look as well as their size, and make playing and prototyping with them attractive to children
and adults alike regardless of the goal.
[0020]      The modules may be offered as individual blocks or as sets. These can range from
standard block components to specialized sets such as sensor sets, mechanical sets, biological
sets, sound sets, etc. Also, users can design and build their own modules or sets to extend the
library.
[0021]      In some aspects, an electrical connector is provided and includes a housing
defining a side surface, an electrical conductor supported by the housing and including an
engagement portion proximate the side surface of the housing, wherein the engagement
portion is adapted to engage another electrical conductor of another electrical connector, a
magnet supported by the housing proximate the side surface of the housing, a projection
extending from the side surface of the housing, and a receptacle defined in the side surface of
the housing.
[0022]      In other aspects, an electrical module is provided and includes a circuit board and
an electrical connector. The electrical connector includes a housing defining a side surface,
an electrical conductor supported by the housing and including a coupling portion and an
engagement portion, wherein the coupling portion is adapted to engage and electrically
communicate with the circuit board, and wherein the engagement portion is proximate the
side surface of the housing, a magnet supported by the housing proximate the side surface of
the housing, a projection extending from the side surface of the housing, and a receptacle
defined in the side surface of the housing.
[0023]      In further aspects, a system is provided and includes a plurality of electrical
modules selectively couplable together to transmit electrical current from one electrical
module to another electrical module, each module has at least one functionality associated
therewith and includes an electrical connector adapted to couple to an electrical connector of
                                                  7.

    WO 2014/032043                                                          PCT/US2013/056599
another one of the electrical modules, wherein, with the electrical connectors coupled
together, a functionality of at least one of the plurality of electrical modules is dependent
upon at least another one of the plurality of electrical modules.
[0024]      In still other aspects, a system is provided and includes a plurality of electrical
modules adapted to be selectively coupled to one another, wherein the plurality of electrical
modules include at least a first electrical module and a second electrical module, the first
electrical module including a first circuit board, and a first electrical connector including a
first housing, a first electrical conductor supported by the first housing and including a first
coupling portion and a first engagement portion, wherein the first coupling portion is adapted
to engage and electrically communicate with the first circuit board, a first magnet supported
by the first housing, a first projection extending from the first housing, and a first receptacle
defined in the first housing. The second electrical module includes a second circuit board,
and a second electrical connector including a second housing, a second electrical conductor
supported by the second housing and including a second coupling portion and a second
engagement portion, wherein the second coupling portion is adapted to engage and
electrically communicate with the second circuit board, a second magnet supported by the
second housing, a second projection extending from the second housing, and a second
receptacle defined in the second housing, wherein, with the first electrical module coupled to
the second electrical module, the first magnet is magnetically coupled to the second magnet,
the first engagement portion engages the second engagement portion, the first projection is at
least partially positioned within the second receptacle, and the second projection is at least
partially positioned within the first receptacle.
[0025]      The present invention is capable of various modifications and alternative
constructions, some of which are detailed in the drawings below. However, it should be clear
that the intention is not to limit the invention to a particular embodiment or form, but rather
the present invention should cover changes, additions and modifications as part of its scope.
Independent features and independent advantages of the present invention will become
apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the detailed description and drawings.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0026]      Fig. 1 is a top view of an exemplary module of the system;
[0027]      Fig. 2 is a side view of the module shown in Fig. 1;
                                                  8.

    WO 2014/032043                                                          PCT/US2013/056599
[0028]       Fig. 3 is a top view of a set of three modules before connecting the three modules;
[0029]       Fig. 4 is a top view of the three modules shown in Fig. 3 after connection to
illustrate how the modules connect together using magnetic connectors of the modules;
[0030]       Fig. 5 is a perspective view of an exemplary embodiment of a magnetic connector
of a module;
[0031]       Fig. 6 is a top view of the magnetic connector shown in Fig. 5;
[0032]       Fig. 7 is an exemplary; configuration of four modules;
[0033]       Fig. 8 is a top view of an exemplary module of the system featuring controls;
[0034]       Fig. 9 is a perspective view of an exemplary set of three modules of the system
including one module illustrating physical programming through controls;
[0035]       Fig. 10 is a perspective view of an exemplary packaged kit including a plurality of
exemplary modules and an exemplary mounting board for mounting modules;
[0036]       Fig. 11 is a perspective view of an exemplary wire module of the system;
[0037]       Fig. 12 is a top perspective view of an exemplary output module of the system;
[0038]       Fig. 13 is a top perspective view of another exemplary output module of the
system;
[0039]       Fig. 14 is a top perspective view of an exemplary input module of the system;
[0040]       Fig. 15 is a top perspective view of another exemplary input module of the
system;
[0041]       Fig. 16 is a top perspective view of an exemplary power input module of the
system;
[0042]       Fig. 17 is a top perspective view of an exemplary multi-module kit of the system;
[0043]       Fig. 18 is a top perspective view of other exemplary modules and another
exemplary mounting board of the exemplary system, each module including at least one of
another exemplary connector for coupling together modules;
                                                    9.

   WO 2014/032043                                                             PCT/US2013/056599
[0044]       Fig. 19 is a bottom perspective view of two coupled together modules shown in
Fig. 18;
[0045]       Fig. 20 is a top exploded view of one of the modules shown in Fig. 18;
[0046]       Fig. 21 is a top exploded view of one of the connectors shown in Fig. 18;
[0047]       Fig. 22 is a bottom perspective view of two exemplary modules coupled together
and an exemplary support member coupled to two of the connectors;
[0048]       Fig. 23 is a top perspective view of the support member shown in Fig. 22;
[0049]       Fig. 24 is a top perspective view of an exemplary mounting board coupled to an
exemplary configuration of toy building blocks;
[0050]       Fig. 25 is a bottom perspective view of the mounting board and exemplary toy
building blocks shown in Fig. 24;
[0051]       Figs. 26A-26D are each a schematic illustration of a top view of a different
embodiment of a module; and
[0052]       Figs. 27A-27B are each a schematic illustration of a top view of a different
embodiment of a module.
[0053]       Before any independent features and embodiments of the invention are explained
in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details
of the construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following
description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and
of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also, it is understood that the
phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be
regarded as limiting.       For example, directional terms such as "top", "bottom", "above",
"below", "front", "back", etc. are not intended to be limiting and are used for describing the
exemplary illustrated embodiments herein.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0054]       An exemplary electronic building system 30 is provided. The electronic building
system 30 is not only meant for use with pre-designed components and modules 34, but can
                                                   10.

    WO 2014/032043                                                       PCT/US2013/056599
also allow users to combine those modules 34 with other traditional prototyping and playing
items in a design studio or home. Such materials may include, for example, paper, cardboard,
wood, glue, pipe cleaners, foam, etc., thereby encouraging individuals to treat electronics like
a material in the creative process.
[0055]      In some exemplary embodiments, the system 30 may include at least four
different types of modules 34: power; input; output; and wire; although more types of
modules 34 are possible. Power modules 34 provide electricity to the system 30.           Input
modules 34 interpret data or their surroundings and provide that input to the system 30.
Output modules 34 make visual, physical, or audible changes to their surroundings based on
input(s) to the system 30. Wire modules 34 route power and communication between the
modules 34 in the system 30.
[0056]      According to one exemplary embodiment, when a first module 34 is connected to
a second module 34, the power signal is transferred from the first module 34 to the second
module 34. Accordingly, the second module 34 is powered entirely by the first module 34.
If a button module 34, sensor module 34, or other module 34 is placed somewhere between a
first module 34 and a second module 34, the current may be affected by the action of the
button module 34 or sensor module 34. For example, current may not pass (or, alternatively,
may continuously pass) from the first module 34 to the second module 34 unless the button
on the button module 34 is depressed or the sensor on the sensor module 34 is activated.
Similarly, if a sensor module 34 is only partially activated, then only partial current is
transferred from the first module 34 to the second module 34.
[0057]      Many different types of modules 34 are possible in each category, including but
not limited to the following: (i) power modules: wall power modules, battery power modules,
solar power modules, discharge protection circuits; (ii) input modules: pulse modules,
pressure sensor modules, proximity modules, input recording modules, potentiometer
modules, button modules, temperature modules, accelerometer modules, memory modules,
timer modules; (iii) output modules: motion modules, vibration motor modules, fan modules,
RGB LED modules, LED modules, bar graph modules, speaker modules; and (iv) wire
modules: wire modules of various lengths, extender modules, splitter modules, and
electroluminescent wire modules.     Any known type of circuit or electronic component or
combination of components may be used to create a module 34 and thus form a portion of a
system 30 built using such components.
                                                11.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
[0058]      The modular system 30 described herein is reusable, scalable from small and
simple circuits to large and complex circuits, and are sophisticated enough to allow for
complex programming of behavior through manipulating tangible objects (using logic and
state modules 34). Additionally, just as programmers use software modules and libraries to
create bigger and more complex software programs, the modules 34 are transformed into a
library of electronic components that can be used to create bigger and more complex
components or systems. Indeed, a user can expand the module library almost indefinitely,
adding any new component that they wish to use to their module repository.
[0059]      Users can even create their own modules 34 and add them to the rest of the
library. For example, according to one exemplary embodiment, users may be provided with
components of a module 34 -       such as male magnetic connectors 38A and female magnetic
connectors 38B that are able to snap onto or otherwise couple to a small circuit board, sensor,
or other electronic component such that the connectors 38A/38B transmit current from one
module 34 to another -     that they can use to create their own inter-connectable modules 34
built from circuit board, sensors, or output mechanisms that they have built or gathered from
another source.
[0060]      According to another exemplary embodiment, a system 30 comprising several
modules 34 may be commercialized as a single kit or set. The kit may include one or more
different modules 34 (power, input, output, and/or wire), may comprise one or more different
types of each module 34, a container in which to store the modules 34, a mounting board or
substrate upon which to place or couple modules, may include learning materials,
accessories, instructions, or a variety of other components. For example, a kit may comprise
a handful of modules 34 that may be connected in an almost unlimited number of
combinations to perform numerous different input and output functions (see Figs. 10 and 17).
In other exemplary embodiments, the kit may also comprise a limited number of modules 34
that are intended to be assembled in a limited number of combinations, including a single
combination, to perform a limited number of functions. For example, to comprise a kit that is
intended to be built into a functional system, the kit can comprise as many as tens or
hundreds or more modules 34, or it can comprise just two modules 34 (a power module and
an output module). Alternatively, the kit may be intended to augment an existing module
library, in which case it may comprise just one type of module 34, such as a kit of only wire
modules 34 or only output modules 34, for example. The kits may also be directed to a
                                                  12.

    WO 2014/032043                                                       PCT/US2013/056599
certain age group, with a kit for the elementary level comprising fewer and/or less
complicated modules 34 than a kit designed for the high school level, for example. In one
exemplary embodiment, the kits may include instructions, videos, or other means which
inform the user as to one or more possible combinations of the modules 34. For example, the
instructions may instruct the user how to assemble the modules 34 into a battery-powered
motion sensor that emits an audible alarm upon detection of movement.
[0061]      One potential aspect of the exemplary kits, systems, and modules may be to
extend the concept of the modular platform into more complex components. According to
one exemplary embodiment, the system 30 is adapted to give access to sophisticated devices
through, for example, simple three-line analog interfaces. Exemplary complex devices may
include, but are not limited to, LCD displays, OLED screens, timers, accelerometers, logic
gates, and many more. This may be accomplished by pre-engineering all modules 34 and
providing "entry points" into the devices.     The entry points are, for example, knobs or
switches that allow the user to adjust the intensity or frequency of pulsing, flip modes of
operation, set thresholds, make decisions, or remember a configuration, among many other
operations.   These may be considered "entry points" because they are based on similar
devices that people know how to use from their everyday lives.       The exemplary modular
systems described herein may take lessons and iconography from consumer electronics (such
as, for example, blenders, DVD players, alarm clocks, game consoles) and apply them to
these semi-raw electronic modules 34.       In this way, the modular system 30 may treat
electronic components like they are electronic devices. This means the learning curve for
using and creating with the modular system 30 is very low, and the user's pre-existing
knowledge obtained from manipulating their own consumer electronics may be taken
advantage of to allow the users to program new objects through interaction.
[0062]      An exemplary entry point may include an OLED screen module 34 which requires
an SD card slot in which users can insert an SD card preloaded with images and video. The
OLED screen module 34 may also include a microcontroller on-board which is pre
programmed with firmware to access and display the images. Also integrated in the OLED
screen module 34 may be a toggle switch and a knob, where the toggle switch selects
between fixed images/video or looping and the knob adjusts the looping speed. In the above
example, even though the circuit-board and firmware itself may be complex, the end result
will be an easy-to-use OLED screen module 34 with appropriate iconography that may be
                                                13.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
accessible to children and novice users alike. The exemplary system 30 may allow for and
include the pre-engineering and design of numerous other complex modules 34 similar to the
OLED screen example.
[0063]      Referring now to Figs. 1 and 2, an exemplary module or block 34 of the electronic
building system 30 is illustrated (exemplary systems 30 illustrated in Figs. 3, 4, 7, 9, and 10).
The illustrated block 34 is a tact switch module 34 or a pushbutton, and illustrates how
discrete electronic components are turned into blocks 34. A pushbutton component 42 is
coupled (e.g., soldered) onto a Printed Circuit Board 46 that has two interfaces, the input
interface and the output interface. A magnetic connector is mounted at each of the two
interfaces. In some exemplary embodiments, the magnetic connectors may be the same type
of connector. In other exemplary embodiments, the connectors may include a male connector
38A on the input interface side and a female connector 38B on the output interface side.
[0064]      The input interface of the tact switch module 34 in Fig. 1 is designed to couple
with the output interface of a previous module 34, and the output interface of the illustrated
module 34 is designed to couple with the input interface of the next module 34. The module
34 features electrical traces designed to complete connections between two engaging
interfaces for a Power line and a Ground line. A Signal line goes through the button 42,
which makes or breaks the circuit, and thus transfers a modified Signal line to the output
interface corresponding to the module function. In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the
magnetic connectors 38A/B are coupled (e.g., soldered) to the PCB 46 by way of surface
mount pads. The above-described drawing also illustrates the modular design of the system
30, as well as the connection and communication standards that make the system 30.
[0065]      An exemplary configuration of an electronic building system 30 is illustrated in
Figs. 3 and 4 and includes the exemplary tact switch module shown in Figs. 1 and 2. In these
figures and the figures hereafter, different modules will be identified with a common
reference number "34" and a letter (e.g., 34C, 34D, 34E, etc.) associated with each different
module. Likewise, similar components between the modules will be identified with similar
reference numbers and a letter corresponding to the letter associated with the module (e.g.,
module 34F, connector 38F, circuit board 46F, etc.).
[0066]      In Figs. 3 and 4, an exemplary tact switch module 34A is shown in the middle
between a wall power module 34B and a Light Emitting Diode (LED) module 34C. The male
                                                14.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
connector 38A on the tact switch module 34A is attracted to the female connector 38B on the
wall power module 34B via the magnetic connectors described in detail below. The same
manner of coupling applies to the tact switch module 34A and the LED module 34C, which
contains a dip package LED component 50 coupled (e.g., soldered) to the PCB 46C. When
the magnetic connectors in the three illustrated modules 34 couple together as in Fig. 4, and
the user pushes down the tact switch 42 of the switch module 34A, the circuit is completed
and the LED 50 illuminates. The power module 34B has a power adapter connector 54 that
delivers DC voltage to the power module 34B. The pre-integrated circuitry in the power
module 34B then drops down the voltage to a required voltage such as, for example, 5 Volts
in the present example. Note that if the tact switch module 34A is removed from between the
two other modules, the LED module 34C will be attracted to the power module 34B and LED
50 will remain illuminated at all times. In the above mentioned scenario, there is one power
block (the wall power), one input block (the switch) and one output block (the LED).        It
should be understood that the exemplary blocks 34 may be replaced by other blocks 34
having other functionality. For example, the LED block 34C may be replaced by a buzzer
block and, when the button is pressed, the buzzer makes an audible sound. Hundreds of other
combinations are possible with different blocks having different functionality all forming
different circuits, with immediate response of the elements, and without any need for
programming, soldering or circuit assembly.
[0067]      Referring now to Figs. 5 and 6, an exemplary embodiment of a magnetic
connector is illustrated. In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the connector is a male
magnetic connector 38A. Female magnetic connectors may be similar to the male connector
except the female connectors may have spring probes 66 that project less from the connector.
In some exemplary embodiments, a pair of magnetic connectors 38A/B are electrically
coupled to a PCB 46 to provide a module 34.           Alternatively, any number of magnetic
connectors may be electrically coupled to a PCB 46, including one, and be within the
intended spirit and scope of the present invention.       The illustrated exemplary magnetic
connector 38A, male version here, includes a housing 58 in which two magnets 62 are
molded with surface poles exposed that act as the polarizing and locking elements between
modules 34.     In some exemplary embodiments, the housing 58 may be made of a non
conductive material such as plastic.       Embedded in the housing 58 are three electrical
conductors or spring probes 66 that are responsible for carrying the current from one module
34 to the next module 34. In addition and for extra support, the magnetic connector 38A is
                                                15.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
mounted on the PCB 46 through mounting tabs 70 on both sides of the connector 38A. The
male connector described above mates with a female connector that looks similar, however,
the spring probes 66 in the female connector may be replaced with metal plates, and the
magnet exposed surface is opposite to that of the male connector.          In other exemplary
embodiments, the spring probes 66 in the female connector may be similar to the spring
probes 66 in the male connector except they may project less from the connector housing 58
than the spring probes 66 of the male connector. Also note that each connector (both male
and female) includes a protrusion 71 and an indentation or receptacle 72 in the housing 58.
The protrusions 71 are adapted to insert and mate with indentations 72 in other connectors
when the connectors are coupled together.        This engagement between protrusions 71 and
indentations 72 inhibits the blocks 34 from sliding with respect to each other. This design
ensures that blocks 34 couple together to inhibit sliding between the blocks 34 and also
facilitate coupling the blocks 34 in the correct manner. Users have a difficult time making
mistakes or dangerous electrical connections as is often possible with other electronic
components.     This makes the present electronic building system 30 accessible and friendly
for children, non-engineers, and users who have little or no experience in electronics.
[0068]       While the connector 38A shown in Figs. 5 and 6 includes three spring probes 66,
any number of spring probes 66, including just one or many more than three, may be used to
accommodate electrical current and/or communication from one module 34 to the next
module 34. For example, the connector 38A may include four, five, six, or more electrical
lines.   Further, many means other than spring probes may be used to transmit electrical
current and/or communication from one module 34 to another module 34, as would be
recognized by one of skill in the art. In each system, the female connector 38B may be
structured to appropriately receive the spring probes 66 or other current-transmission means
from the male connector 38A, such that current is properly transmitted between the
connectors 38A/B and the modules 34. In other exemplary embodiments, the connectors may
not include a female connector and a male connector, but, rather, may include two similarly
structured connectors that mate and facilitate transfer of electrical current and/or electrical
communication from one module 34 to another module 34.
[0069]       With reference to Fig. 7, another exemplary configuration of modules or blocks 34
is illustrated and this exemplary configuration provides a pressure sensor module 34D. In the
illustrated exemplary embodiment, the power module is a battery block 34E such as, for
                                                  16.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
example, a coin cell battery block. In this block 34E, a coin battery 82 delivers a little over 3
Volts stepped up to 5 Volts by the illustrated exemplary electronic circuit. The circuit also
includes a discharge protection circuit, which demonstrates an example of how the electronic
building system 30 may be designed to make the system easier to use and safe for users. The
circuit may also include an embedded switch that enables a user to turn on or off the battery
block 34E so as not to waste battery power. The next block connected to the battery block
34E is the pressure sensor module 34D, which reads the amount of pressure applied to a
pressure sensor component 86 and outputs voltage in the range of 0 to 5 Volts depending on
the amount of pressure applied.          As more pressure is applied to the pressure sensor
component 86, higher voltage transmits to the next modules.          In this example, the next
modules include a vibrating motor block 34F and an LED block 34G, both of which
respectively vibrate more and illuminate brighter as the applied pressure increases. Figs. 3, 4,
and 7, among others, illustrate how the electronic building system 30 is standalone and
requires no hardware platform or computer to be connected. The above-described exemplary
system could be used, for example, by a child wanting to create his/her version of a carnival's
strength meter. As pressure is applied with more strength through a finger or hammer, the
toy vibrates more and the LED 98 gets brighter.
[0070]      In some exemplary embodiments, each module 34 may include control and
protection circuitry to facilitate safe and easy operation of the module 34. Additionally, each
module 34 may include an operational amplifier component used in a buffer configuration in
order to reduce the amount of overall current consumption on the overall system 30 of
coupled modules 34.      This assists with facilitating the cascading of multiple modules 34
without significant loss of power, as well as scaling the system 30 as may be desired. In
other exemplary embodiments, the system 30 may include a booster module in the overall
system of coupled modules 34 in order to boost the current and/or power traveling through
the power lines and ensure proper functioning of all the modules 34 in the system 30.
[0071]      Beyond being able to produce discrete behaviors by cascading modules 34, the
electronic building system 30 allows for programming of certain behavior and aesthetic of the
modules 34 through controls. In Fig. 8, an exemplary Red Green Blue (RGB) LED block
34H is shown. In this module 34H, the output color of the RGB LED 102 is controlled by the
value of a combination of three potentiometers or knobs 106 provided in the module 34H. By
changing the value of each potentiometer (one for Red, one for Green, one for Blue) using a
                                                  17.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
screwdriver 110 or other device, the user is able to adjust the LED 102 to a desired color. In
other exemplary embodiments, the potentiometers 106 of this block 34H could be provided
off the circuit board itself, and the color of the RGB LED 102 could be modified externally.
In further exemplary embodiments, the potentiometers may include knobs or other manually
adjustable devices, thereby eliminating the need for tools to perform adjustment.
[0072]      Yet another example of programming behavior in the electronic building system
30 through controls is shown in Fig. 9. Again, the user is able to program behavior of the
circuit by manipulating physical elements and without any code writing. In the illustrated
exemplary embodiment, a 9 Volt battery 114 is shown and is part of the power module 341,
which is connected to a temperature sensor module 34J including a threshold component,
followed by an audio module 34K. In this example, the temperature sensor module 34J may
be more advanced than a traditional sensor module. The block 34J features a potentiometer
118 that may be adjusted to set a temperature threshold.       If the temperature detected by a
temperature sensor 122 is above the set temperature threshold, the module 34J outputs a high
reading. This is an example of integrating logic with the simpler analog blocks in order to
enable complex circuit configurations. In this example, an output of a high reading from the
temperature sensor module 34J will cause the audio module 34K to activate and a speaker
126 to play a pre-recorded message associated with a high reading.            For instance, this
exemplary circuit could be used by a person wishing to have an alarm to turn on the Air
Conditioning.    When the temperature exceeds a pre-set threshold temperature, the audio
module 34K could play back a message "time to turn on the AC!" Also, the audio module
34K may instead be replaced with a fan module, which may activate upon receiving a high
temperature reading signal from the temperature sensor module 34J.
[0073]      In some exemplary embodiments, the temperature sensor module may incorporate
a mode switch 130 that can flip the behavior of the block 34J from 'normally-low' to
'normally-high'. In contrast to the first explained configuration (which was normally-low), a
'normally-high' setting would cause the module 34J to output a high reading except when the
temperature exceeds the threshold.      This means the audio module 34K would be playing
recurrently until the room gets warmer, at which point the audio module 34K will cease to
output audio. These controls, in addition to pre-programmed blocks, logic blocks and state
blocks, will allow the system 30 to enable complex prototypes and circuits with no
programming or electronics knowledge.
                                                  18.

   WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
[0074]      Referring now to Fig. 10, an exemplary kit 132 is illustrated. In the illustrated
exemplary embodiment, the kit 132 may include a plurality of modules or blocks 34 and a
substrate or mounting board 134, upon which modules 34 may be placed, supported, and or
connected. The mounting board 134 may be any size and be made of any material. In some
exemplary embodiments, the mounting board 134 is made of a non-conductive material.
Additionally, the kit 132 may include a container 138 in which the modules 34 may be stored
when not in use. The plurality of blocks 34 and substrate 134 may be the beginning of a kit
or library that a user adds to by creating or acquiring new modules and kits, all fitting
together as part of the electronic building system 30. The previous descriptions and drawings
aim to serve as examples of configurations and modules enabled by the system. These are by
no means restrictive or limiting, and those of ordinary skill in the art will understand and
appreciate the existence of variations, combinations, and equivalents of the embodiments,
methods, and examples herein.
[0075]      With reference to Figs. 11-16, the modules 34L, 34M, 34N, 34P, 34Q, and 34R
may be uniquely configured to provide a quick visual indication to a user of each module's
function.    The modules may be uniquely configured in any manner and have any
characteristic to identify the functionality of the modules. Additionally, any portion of the
module 34 may be uniquely configured and have any characteristic to represent the unique
configuration feature.    For example, the modules may have a characteristic that uniquely
identifies the modules by color-coding, patterning, or may include unique structuring such as
shapes, housings, interconnection or couplings, etc. The illustrated exemplary embodiments
demonstrate color-coding of the connectors 38 as the exemplary manner of uniquely
configuring modules to provide visual indicators as to the function of the modules. However,
it should be understood that this exemplary illustrated embodiment of color-coding
connectors 38 is not intended to be limiting and the modules may be uniquely configured in
any manner and be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The functionality of
the modules identified by the unique configurations and characteristics may be any type or
level of functionality. For example, the unique configurations may indicate that the modules
are input modules, power modules, wire modules, output modules, etc. In other examples,
the unique configurations of the modules may be more specific such as, for example, an LED
module, a 9-volt battery module, a cell battery module, a potentiometer module, a switch
module, a pressure sensor module, a pulse module, a button module, a vibration motor
module, a wire module, etc.
                                                 19.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
[0076]       In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, color-coding provides the user with a
quick visual confirmation of the type of module, the functionality of the module, as well as
allowing the user to learn which color combinations are possible. To represent connectors 38
having various colors in Figs. 11-16, the connectors 38 are shaded in different manners.
Shading connectors 38 in different manners to illustrate various colors is an exemplary
manner of representing various colors and is not intended to be limiting. Other manners of
representing different colors are contemplated and all of such are intended to be within the
spirit and scope of the present invention. Additionally, the connectors 38 are capable of
having any color and are not limited to the exemplary colors and associated shading included
in the figures.
[0077]       According to one exemplary embodiment as shown in Fig. 11, wire modules 34L
may include orange connectors 38L. Upon reading the instruction manual, receiving on-line
instruction, or through trial-and-error, the user learns that orange connectors 38L may
connect to other orange connectors 38L, to green connectors 38M, 38N of output modules
(Fig. 12 depicting a bar graph 34M, and Fig. 13 depicting a vibration motor 34N), and/or to
pink connectors 38P, 38Q of input modules (Fig. 14 depicting a pulse module 34P, and Fig.
15 depicting a pressure sensor 34Q), depending on the system 30 the user is attempting to
build. Each system 30 will likely require a power module (Fig. 16 depicting a wall power
module 34R), which will include blue color-coded connectors 38R according to one
exemplary embodiment. In this illustrated exemplary embodiment and with reference to Fig.
17 illustrating a kit 132 associated with the exemplary system, the kit 132 may include a blue
power module 34R, one or more orange wire modules 34L, a plurality of pink input modules
34P, 34Q, 34S, 34T, and a plurality of green output module 34M, 34N, 34U, 34V. Other
exemplary kits may include any number of modules 34 including any possible functionality
and be within the intended spirit and scope of the present invention.
[0078]       Referring now to Fig. 18, another exemplary system 30 is illustrated including a
plurality of exemplary modules 34W, 34X, and 34Y and a mounting board or substrate 148
upon which to couple and support the modules.         The system 30 illustrated in Fig. 18 is
capable of including any type of module described herein or any other type of module having
any type of functionality. Thus, the exemplary modules illustrated and described herein in
connection with Fig. 18 are not intended to be limiting. The mounting board 148 may be any
size and may be made of any material. In some exemplary embodiments, the mounting board
                                                 20.

    WO 2014/032043                                                          PCT/US2013/056599
148 may be 4 inches by 12 inches. In other exemplary embodiments, the mounting board 148
may be made of any non-conductive material.            In further exemplary embodiments, the
mounting board 148 may be broken up or otherwise separated into smaller portions to a
desired size appropriate to the desired application. In such embodiments, the mounting board
148 may either be made of a material and have a configuration that enables breaking or
separation of the mounting board 148 into smaller portions, or the mounting board 148 may
include perforations, areas of decreased thickness, or other structural characteristics that
provide predetermined locations for facilitating easy breaking or separating of the mounting
board 148 into smaller portions.
[0079]      As indicated above, modules are adapted to have a variety of different types of
functionality and include the appropriate connectors, circuit boards, and associated electrical
components coupled to the circuit boards to perform the desired functionality. The modules
shown in the illustrated exemplary embodiment are for exemplary and demonstrative
purposes, and are not intended to be limiting. The exemplary illustrated modules include a
wall power module 34W (power), a bar graph module 34X (input), and an LED module 34Y
(output).
[0080]      Referring now to Figs. 19-21, each module 34X and 34Y is illustrated and each
includes a pair of connectors 152 and a circuit board 156 appropriate to the desired
functionality of the module. The module can include the appropriate electrical components to
perform the desired functionality of the module. Each connector 152 includes a housing 160
comprised of two portions 160', 160" (see Fig. 21) coupled together, a pair of magnets 164,
and a plurality of electrical conductors 168. The two portions of the housing 160 may be
coupled together in a variety of manners such as, for example, heat staking, ultrasonic
welding, adhesion, press-fit, friction-fit, interference-fit, snap fit or other positive locking
manner, etc, and may be made of a variety of different materials such as, for example, plastic
(e.g., ABS plastic), or other nonconductive materials.       A first portion 160' of the housing
defines a cavity 172 for receiving the second portion 160" of the housing therein. The cavity
172 is complementarily shaped to the second portion 160" to ensure a top surface 176 of the
second portion 160" is substantially flush with a top surface 180 of the first portion 160' (see
Figs. 20 and 21) and a side surface 184 of the second portion 160" is flush with a side surface
188 of the first portion 160' when the two portions 160', 160" are coupled together.
                                                 21.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
[0081]      The first portion 160' of the housing also defines a pair of magnet apertures 192
(see Fig. 21) in a side surface 196 thereof in which the magnets 164 are supported. In the
illustrated embodiment, the magnets 164 are cylindrical in shape, thereby providing a circular
cross-section taken along a plane perpendicular to a longitudinal extent of the magnet 164.
Thus, the magnet apertures 192 defined in the first portion 160' of the housing are circular in
shape. It should be understood that the magnets 164 may having any shape and the magnet
apertures 192 may similarly have any shape that complements the shape of the magnets 164.
For example, if the cross-sectional shape of the magnets is square, then the magnet apertures
in the first portion of the housing may be square.       In other exemplary embodiments, the
magnet apertures may have shapes that are not complementary to the shape of the magnet. In
such embodiments, the magnetic aperture may be any shape that inhibits the magnet from
passing through the magnetic aperture and escaping the housing 160 of the connector. For
example, the magnet may be cylindrical in shape, thereby providing a circular cross-section,
and the magnet aperture may be square such that the square is sized sufficiently small to
inhibit the magnet from passing through the aperture.
[0082]      Additionally, the first portion 160' of the housing defines electrical conductor
apertures 200 in the side surface 196 thereof for receiving and supporting a portion of the
electrical conductors 168 (described in more detail below).        In the illustrated exemplary
embodiment, the electrical conductor apertures 200 are circular in shape complementary to
the shape of a portion of the electrical conductors 168 received therein. Similarly to the
magnet apertures 192, the electrical conductor apertures 200 may have any shape and be
complementary to the shape of a portion of the electrical conductors 168 received therein.
[0083]      The first portion 160' of the housing further defines a plurality of conductor slots
204 (see Fig. 21) in a bottom surface 208 thereof for receiving the conductors 168 therein
when the housing 160 is assembled.        Each conductor slot 204 includes an upper end 212
having a first dimension, a bottom end 216 having a second dimension smaller than the first
dimension, and tapered side surfaces 220 tapering from large to small from the upper end 212
to the lower end 216. The shape of the conductor slots 204 is complementary to the shape of
the electrical conductors 168 in order to provide sufficient support to the electrical conductors
168 when the housing 160 is assembled.
[0084]      Further, the first portion 160' of the housing includes a pair of projections 224
extending downward from a bottom surface 208 thereof for coupling the connector 152 to the
                                                 22.

    WO 2014/032043                                                      PCT/US2013/056599
circuit board 156 of the module 34. In the illustrated exemplary embodiment, the projections
224 are cylindrical in shape and may insert into apertures 228 (see Fig. 20) defined in the
circuit board 156.     Subsequently to inserting the projections 224 into the circuit board
apertures 228, the projections 224 may be deformed to inhibit them from withdrawing from
the apertures 228 in the circuit board 156. The projections 224 may be deformed in a variety
of different manners such as, for example, melting or heating the projections 224, bending,
smashing, or any other manner that sufficiently deforms the projections 224 to inhibit them
from withdrawing from the apertures 228 in the circuit board 156.
[0085]      The housing 160 also defines a receptacle 232 in a side surface thereof and
includes a projection 236 extending from the side surface and positioned adjacent the
receptacle 232. Such a receptacle 232 and projection 236 are included in each connector
housing 160 and assist with proper alignment and coupling together of modules 34. The
receptacle 232 is shaped complementary to a shape of the projection 236 such that when a
projection 236 is received in the receptacle 232 the projection 236 substantially fills the
receptacle 232. When coupling two modules 34 together, such as modules 34X and 34Y, the
connectors 152 are aligned with the projection 236 on each connector 152 substantially
aligned with the receptacle 232 on the other connector 152, and the modules 34X and 34Y
are moved together until the magnetic force of the four magnets 164 on the two connectors
152 is sufficient to pull the connectors 152 together, thereby causing the projections 236 to
insert into the receptacles 232. Upon connection, the projections 236 and receptacles 232 of
the connectors 152 cooperate to inhibit substantial lateral and vertical movement of the
modules 34X and 34Y relative to one another.
[0086]      With continued reference to Figs. 19-21, the first portion 160' of the housing
includes a pair of mounting members 240 extending downward there from and adapted to
engage complementarily shaped receptacles 244 defined in the mounting board 148 (see Fig.
18). The mounting members 240 and the receptacles 244 are configured to provide adequate
support to the modules 34 when mounted on the mounting board 148. In the illustrated
exemplary embodiment, the mounting members 240 have a shape comprised of a quarter of a
circle and the receptacles 244 on the mounting board 148 are circular in shape (see, e.g., Fig.
19 regarding mounting members 240). When two connectors 152 on adjacent modules 34 are
coupled together, the two mounting members 240 on the two connectors 152 form a
semicircle that may friction fit into the receptacles 244 in the mounting board 148. The
                                                23.

    WO 2014/032043                                                       PCT/US2013/056599
circuit board 156 can have various lengths and widths configured to provide appropriate
spacing between the modules 34 and the mounting board 148. For example, as shown in Fig.
18, the circuit board 156 included in module 34Y has a length such that with the connectors
152 disposed on each end of the circuit board 156, the mounting members 240 on one end of
the circuit board 156 are disposed within receptacles 244 that are spaced four receptacles
away from the receptacles 244 in which the mounting members 240 on the opposite end of
the circuit board 156 are disposed. Said another way, there are three receptacles 244 between
connectors 152 on the opposite ends of the circuit board 156 of module 34Y. In another
example, the circuit board 156 included in module 34X shown in FIG. 18, has a length that is
longer than a length of the circuit board of module 34Y. For module 34X, the connectors 152
disposed on each end of the circuit board 156 are disposed in receptacles 244 that are spaced
five receptacles away from the receptacles 244 in which the mounting members 240 on the
opposite end of the circuit board 156 of module 34X are disposed. In this example, there are
four receptacles 244 between the connector 152 on the opposite ends of the circuit board 156
of module 34Y. Thus, the circuit board 156 can be provided with various lengths, while also
accommodating appropriate spacing between receptacles 244 on the mounting board 148.
[0087]      In addition, when two connectors 152 are coupled together as shown in Fig. 19, an
outer edge surface 157 of the circuit board 156 can be disposed substantially flush with an
outer surface 151 of the connectors 152. Alternatively, the outer edge surface of the circuit
board can be disposed inward or outward of the outer surface of the connectors. In other
words, in such alternatives, the outer edge surface is not flush with the outer surface of the
connectors.
[0088]      With continued reference to Figs. 19-21, the electrical conductors 168 have a
spring characteristic that allows for movement of the conductors 168 as a result of forces
applied thereto. This spring characteristic that facilitates movement of the conductors 168
helps maintain contact with electrical conductors 168 on an adjacent module 34 coupled to
the present module 34 during manipulation of the modules 34. Such manipulation may result
in forces applied to the modules 34 causing movement of the modules 34 relative to one
another. In some embodiments, the electrical conductors 168 on adjacent modules can have
different lengths such that the electrical conductors 168 extend from the housing 160 at
varying distances. For example, the electrical conductors 168 shown in Figure 19 have a
length that is greater than a length of the electrical conductors 168 shown in Figure 20. In
                                                24.

   WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
such embodiments, a connector 152 having electrical conductors 168 such as those in Figure
19 can be coupled to a connector 152 having electrical conductors 168 such as those shown in
Figure 20, and the corresponding electrical conductors 168 can exert a spring-force (or bias
force) on each other to substantially maintain the positioning of the coupled sets of electrical
conductors 168 while the two connectors 152 are coupled together.          In other words, as
described above for previous embodiments, a connector 152 can be a male connector or a
female connector that can be matingly coupled together with the other type of connector (e.g.,
a female connector or a male connector, respectively).           In the illustrated exemplary
embodiment, each electrical conductor 168 includes an engagement portion 248 (see Fig. 21)
positioned within a respective electrical conductor aperture 200, a coupling portion 252
extending downward and adapted to engage and electrically communicate with the circuit
board 156, and a middle portion 256 (see Fig. 21) extending between the engagement portion
248 and the coupling portion 252.      The engagement portion 248 is adapted to engage an
electrical conductor 168 of an adjacent module 34 coupled to the present module 34. Due to
the electrical conductor 168 being made of a conductive material, the electrical current travels
through the electrical conductor 168 of the present module 34 to its circuit board 156. Each
electrical conductor 168 includes an enlarged portion 260 (see Fig. 21) positioned between
ends of the conductor 168 that fits into a respective conductor slot 204. The enlarged portion
260 has a complementary shape to the conductor slot 204 to provide vertical and horizontal
support to the electrical conductor 168 when the housing 160 is assembled. In the illustrated
exemplary embodiment, the enlarged portion 260 includes a tapered portion 264 (see Fig. 21)
that complements the tapered surfaces 220 of the conductor slot 204.
[0089]      Referring now to Figs. 22 and 23, a support member 268 is coupled to two
coupled together modules 34 to provide additional support to the coupled modules 34. In
some exemplary embodiments, the support member 268 is used instead of the mounting
board 148 to provide modules 34 with additional support. In other exemplary embodiments,
the support member 268 may be configured to allow both the support member 268 and the
mounting board 148 to provide support to two coupled together modules 34. In the illustrated
exemplary embodiment, the support member 268 includes a pair of receptacles 280 defined in
a top surface 276 thereof for receiving mounting members 240 of coupled together modules
34. The receptacles 280 in the support members 268 are similarly sized, shaped and spaced
apart as the receptacles 244 in the mounting board 148. The support member 268 also has a
height H that, when two modules 34 are coupled to each other and to the support member
                                                 25.

    WO 2014/032043                                                     PCT/US2013/056599
268, a top surface 276 of the support member 268 is substantially flush with and mates or
engages with a bottom surface 288 of the housing 160. Also in the illustrated exemplary
embodiment, the support member 268 includes a width WI that is substantially similar to a
width W2 of two coupled together connectors 152 and a length Ll that is substantially similar
to a length L2 of the two coupled together modules 34. Alternatively, the support member
268 may have configurations different than the illustrated exemplary embodiment as long as
the support member 268 provides support to coupled together modules 34. When multiple
modules 34 in a system 30 are coupled together, a support member 268 may be coupled to
each pair of coupled together connectors 152 in the system 30. Thus, the system 30 may
include any number of support members 268 therein and be within the intended spirit and
scope of the present invention.
[0090]      The exemplary systems 30 disclosed herein are adapted to cooperate with other
types of systems to bring the functionality and features of the exemplary systems 30 to the
other types of systems.    The exemplary systems 30 may cooperate with any type of other
system and be within the intended spirit and scope of the present invention. With reference
to Figs. 24 and 25, an exemplary mounting board 148 of an exemplary system 30 of the
present invention is shown cooperating with a toy building block system 292 such as, for
example, a LEGO* building block system 292. The illustrated exemplary systems are not
intended to be limiting, but, rather, are for exemplary and demonstrative purposes. In the
illustrated exemplary embodiment, the mounting board 148 is configured to cooperate with
the exemplary LEGO* building block system 292 and, in particular, is configured to couple
to a LEGO* building block system 292. A first side 296 of the mounting board 148 (e.g., a
top side) includes the plurality of receptacles 244 appropriately spaced for receiving
connectors 152 of modules 34. A second side 298 of the mounting board 148 (e.g., a bottom
side) includes a plurality of projections 300 having cavities 304 defined therein that are
appropriately spaced from one another to facilitate coupling to the LEGO* building block
system 292. As indicated above, the systems 30 of the present invention may couple to any
type of other systems and, accordingly, the second side 298 of the mounting board 148 may
be configured in any manner to accommodate any type of other system to which the
mounting board 148 is intended to couple.
[0091]      It should be understood that the structures, features, functionality, and other
characteristics of the various exemplary embodiments of the systems disclosed herein and
                                                26.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
illustrated in Figs. 1-25 may be combined with each other in any manner and in any
combination and all such manners and combinations are intended to be within the spirit and
scope of the present invention. For example, an adapter(s) or foot member can be included to
adjust the height of a connector such that different connector embodiments can be coupled to
a common circuit board or different circuit board / connector combinations can be coupled
together. For example, an adapter can be coupled to a bottom portion of the connector 38A
(see FIG. 5) to increase a length or height of the connector 38A such that the connector 38A
can be coupled to a circuit board 156 along with a connector 152. In another example, an
adapter can be coupled to a bottom portion of the connector 38M (see FIG. 12) to increase a
length or height of the connector 38M relative to a circuit board such that the connector 38M
can be coupled to a different circuit board 156 having a connector 152. Such adapters can be,
for example, adhesively coupled to a bottom portion of the connector 38A or connector 38M.
In some embodiments, the adapter can include a mounting member or portion similar to the
mounting members 240 described above, such that the adapter can engage complementarily
shaped receptacles (e.g., receptacles 244 described above) defined in a mounting board (e.g.,
mounting board 148 shown in Fig. 18).
[0092]       Although embodiments of modules 34 are shown and described as having a
connector (e.g., connectors 38 and 152) coupled to one end or two opposite ends or edges of a
circuit board (e.g., circuit boards 46 and 156), in other embodiments, a module 34 can include
connectors coupled to more than two ends or edges of a circuit board. For example, Figs.
26A-26D are each a schematic illustration of a top view of a module including a circuit board
and one or more connectors. The modules of Figs. 26A-26D can include various different
embodiments of a connector and/or circuit board as described herein.
[0093]       Fig. 26A illustrates a module 334A including a circuit board 356A, and one
connector 352A coupled to a single edge or end portion of the circuit board 356A. Fig. 26B
illustrates a module 334B including a circuit board 356B, and two connectors 352B coupled
to a single edge or end portion of the circuit board 356B. Fig. 26C illustrates a module 334C
including a circuit board 356C, and three connectors 352C coupled to three different edges or
end portions of the circuit board 356C.      Fig. 26D illustrates a module 334D including a
circuit board 356D, and four connectors 352D coupled to four different edges or end portions
of the circuit board 356D.
                                                  27.

    WO 2014/032043                                                         PCT/US2013/056599
[0094]       Figs. 27A and 27B are schematic illustrations of embodiments of a module
showing side edges of a circuit board in relation to a side edge or surface of a connector. Fig.
27A illustrates a module 434A having a circuit board 456A and two connectors 452A
coupled to the circuit board 456A.      In this embodiment, when the connectors 452A are
coupled to the circuit board 456A, side edges 457A of the circuit board 456A are disposed
inward of side edges or surfaces 45 1A of the connectors 452A. Although not shown, in other
embodiments, the side edges of a circuit board can be disposed outward of side edges or
surfaces of the connectors. Fig. 27B illustrates a module 434B having a circuit board 456B
and two connectors 452B coupled to the circuit board 456B. In this embodiment, when the
connectors 452B are coupled to the circuit board 456B, side edges 457B of the circuit board
456B are disposed substantially flush with side edges or surfaces 451B of the connectors
452B.
[0095]       As described above in the many examples of modules and systems, numerous
modules may be coupled together to achieve various functionalities of the systems. Modules
may be coupled in a cascading manner in which the inclusion of one module in the system
may affect the functionality of downstream modules in a first manner and inclusion of a
different module in the system may affect the function of downstream modules in another
manner different than the first manner. That is, modules coupled together in a system may
have dependencies upon one another to affect functionality thereof and of the entire system.
A simple example to demonstrate this concept, but is not intended to be limiting, comprises a
system include three modules: A power module, a button module, and an LED module. The
button module and the LED module are dependent on the power module, and the LED
module is dependent on the button module. To demonstrate the dependency of the button
module and the LED module on the power module considering the following: If the power
module is not providing any power, then neither the button module nor the LED module can
operate in their intended manner.     Similarly, to demonstrate the dependency of the LED
module on the button module, if the button is not depressed or otherwise activated to close
the circuit, the LED module will not be illuminated, and if the button is depressed, the LED
module will be illuminated. In other words, cascading modules in a system affect operation
and functionality of downstream modules.
[0096]       The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration and
description, and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form
                                                28.

    WO 2014/032043                                                        PCT/US2013/056599
disclosed. The descriptions were selected to explain the principles of the invention and their
practical application to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in various
embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.
Although particular constructions of the present invention have been shown and described,
other alternative constructions will be apparent to those skilled in the art and are within the
intended scope of the present invention.
                                               29.

What is claimed is:
1.       An apparatus, comprising:
         a first circuit board having a length, a first exterior side surface along the length and a
second exterior side surface along the length on an opposite side of the first circuit board;
         a first connector including an exterior side surface and an exterior end surface
different than the exterior side surface of the first connector, the first connector mounted to
the first circuit board such that one of the first exterior side surface and the second exterior
side surface of the first circuit board is substantially aligned in a same plane with the exterior
side surface of the first connector, the first connector having a first conductor, a portion of the
first conductor extending from the exterior end surface of the first connector;
         a second circuit board having a length, a first exterior side surface along the length
and a second exterior side surface along the length on an opposite side of the second circuit
board; and
         a second connector having an exterior side surface and an exterior end surface
different than the exterior side surface of the second connector, the second connector
mounted to the second circuit board such that one of the first exterior side surface and the
second exterior side surface of the second circuit board is substantially aligned in a same
plane with the exterior side surface of the second connector, the second connector having a
second conductor, a portion of the second conductor extending from the exterior end surface
of the second connector and configured to engage the first conductor on the first connector.
2.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the exterior end surface of the first connector and
the exterior end surface of the second connector each include a first elongate portion
extending in a vertical direction and a second elongate portion extending in a horizontal
direction, the first elongate portion of the first connector configured to contact the first
elongate portion of the second connector, the second elongate portion of the first connector
configured to contact the second elongate portion of the second connector when the first
connector is coupled to the second connector.
                                                  30

3.       The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising:
         a mounting board having a first side defining a plurality of openings and a second side
including a plurality of projections, the first connector and the second connector each
configured to be removably coupled to the first side of the mounting board, the second side of
the mounting board configured to be removably coupled to at least one block having a
projection and being from an interlocking block system.
4.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first connector includes a first mounting portion
configured to be received within a first opening from a plurality of openings defined in a
mounting board and a second mounting portion configured to be received within a second
opening from the plurality of openings defined in the mounting board to removably couple
the first circuit board to the mounting board, the second connector includes a first mounting
portion configured to be received within the first opening in the mounting board and a second
mounting portion configured to be received within the second opening in the mounting board
to removably couple the second circuit board to the mounting board.
5.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first connector has a first height and includes a
first mounting portion and a second mounting portion each configured to be received within a
different opening defined in a mounting board, the apparatus further comprising:
         a first adapter configured to be coupled to a bottom surface of the first mounting
portion; and a second adapter configured to be coupled to a bottom surface of the second
mounting portion,
         the first connector having a second height when the first adapter and the second
adapter are coupled to the first connector, the second height being greater than the first
height.
6.       The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:
         the first connector includes a first mounting portion configured to be received within a
first opening defined in a support member and a second mounting portion configured to be
received within a second opening defined in the support member, the second connector
                                                 31

includes a first mounting portion configured to be received within the first opening of the
support member and a second mounting portion configured to be received within the second
opening of the support member, the support member configured to maintain the first
connector coupled to the second connector.
7.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein:
       the first connector is fixedly mounted to the first circuit board; and
       the second connector is fixedly mounted to the second circuit board.
                                              32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
