ABSTRACT
The device 1 includes a base 2 defining a flat platform section 4 having an upper surface that
is configured to abut the rear surface of a tile. A pair of inclined sections 5 are respectively
disposed on either side of the flat platform section 4. A stem 6 is disposed at the mid-point on
each of the inclined sections 5. The proximal end 7 of the stem 6, is frangibly connected to
the base 2. In use, the stem 6 extends from the proximal end 7, through a joint between a pair
of adjacent tiles, to a distal end 8 that protrudes beyond the tiled surface. Gripping formations
are disposed upon the stem 6, one of which is the V-shaped projections 9 that are disposed on
either side of the head 11. Another type of gripping formation is the serrations 10 formed
upon either outer edge of the stem 6.

    1 /7
         51
                 2
            Fig. 1
          3
4             5
554
              Fig. 2

                                             1
                                       AUSTRALIA
                                  Patents Act 1990 (Cth)
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                        Applicant
                                   A-Mark Ind Pty Ltd
                                           Title
                  A DEVICE FOR USE IN THE LAYING OF TILES
                          AND AN ASSOCIATED METHOD
The invention is described in the following statement:

                                                   2
                      A DEVICE FOR USE IN THE LAYING OF TILES
                                AND AN ASSOCIATED METHOD
TECHNICAL FIELD
         The present invention relates to devices and associated methods for the laying of tiles.
Embodiments of the present invention find application, though not exclusively, in
construction and renovation.
BACKGROUND ART
           Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in this specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for the
present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part
of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
invention as it existed in Australia or elsewhere before the priority date of this application.
         One important consideration in the laying of tiles is to achieve an aesthetically
pleasing finish, which typically requires the outer surfaces of the tiles to lie substantially in a
common plane. Achieving such an outcome is often dependent upon the skill and experience
of the person laying the tiles. Various devices are known to assist with tile levelling and it
has been appreciated by the inventor of the present application that any improvements which
may render such devices more efficient to use would be highly desirable in the often time
sensitive contexts of construction and/or renovation.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or substantially ameliorate, one or
more of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
         In one aspect of the present invention there is provided a device for use in the laying
of tiles, the device including: a base configured in use to be at least partly disposed
underneath a tiled surface; and a stem having a proximal end frangibly connected to the base,
wherein, in use, the stem extends from the proximal end, through a joint between a pair of

                                                   3
adjacent tiles, to a distal end protruding beyond the tiled surface; wherein at least one gripping
formation is disposed upon a protruding portion of the stem.
        Preferably the gripping formation is a V-shaped projection, which in some
embodiments is disposed at or adjacent to the distal end of the stem. In another embodiment
the gripping formation is in the form of serrations formed upon an edge of the stem. In yet
another embodiment the gripping formation is a combination of a V-shaped projection
disposed at, or adjacent to, the distal end and serrations formed upon an edge of the V-shaped
projection.
        According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a method of laying first
and second tiles upon a surface, the method including the steps of: providing a device as
described above; applying an adhesive to the surface and/or to rear sides of the first and
second tiles; positioning the first tile against the surface; sliding a portion of the base
underneath the first tile such that an edge of the first tile abuts a first side of the stem;
positioning the second tile against the surface and an opposite portion of the base such that an
edge of the second tile abuts a second opposite side of the stem and such that the stem extends
between the first and second tiles so as to protrude beyond the tiled surface; inserting a wedge
into a hole disposed in a protruding portion of the stem so as to force outer surfaces of the
first and second tiles substantially into alignment; allowing the adhesive to cure; and
impacting an object upon the gripping formation so as to frangibly separate the stem from the
base.
        Preferably the object is a shoe or boot and more specifically the object may be a toe or
a heel of the shoe or boot.
          The features and advantages of the present invention will become further apparent
from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments, provided by way of
example only, together with the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
          Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of the device;
          Figure 2 is a plan view of the device;

                                                  4
          Figure 3 is a side view of the device;
          Figure 4 is a detail view of the portion labelled A in figure 3;
          Figure 5 is a front view of the device;
          Figure 6 is a detail view of the portion labelled C in figure 5;
          Figure 7 is a cross sectional view taken through line D-D as shown in figure 5;
          Figure 8 is a detail cross sectional view of the portion labelled E in figure 7
          Figure 9 is a perspective view of a wedge for use with the device;
          Figure 10 is a plan view of the wedge;
          Figure 11 is a front view of the wedge;
          Figure 12 is a side view of the wedge;
          Figure 13 is a detail view of the portion labelled B in figure 12; and
          Figure 14 is a flow chart showing steps taken in an embodiment of the method.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE
INVENTION
          As shown in figure 1, for example, the device 1 includes a base 2 having a pair of
holes 3 through which adhesive may flow, when the device 1 is being used in the manner
described in more detail below. The base 2 includes a flat platform section 4 having an upper
surface that is parallel to the lower surface of the base 2. The upper surface of this flat
platform section 4 is configured to abut the rear surface of a tile when the base 2 is at least
partly disposed underneath the tile.
          A pair of inclined sections 5 are respectively disposed on either side of the flat
platform section 4. The inclined sections 5 slope upwardly towards the middle of the base 2
when viewed from the side (as shown for example in figures 3 and 4). The inclined sections 5
meet at the mid-point of the base 2. A stem 6 is disposed at this mid-point on each of the
inclined sections 5. As best shown in figure 4, the proximal end 7 of the stem 6, is frangibly
connected to the base 2 by virtue of the narrow width of the connection of the proximal end 7
to the base 2. Immediately above this narrow connection, the width of the stem 6 tapers

                                                   5
outwardly until a stem width of three or four times the connection width is achieved. As best
shown in figure 3, this width then stays constant up the stem until another outward tapering
point is reached closer to the distal end, at which point the width increases by approximately a
factor of three in the region that forms the head 11 of the stem 6.
          As best shown in figures 1 and 5, the stem 6 is in an inverted U-shape, which extends
from the narrow connection at the left hand inclined section 5, upwards towards the distal
end, across the head 11 and then back down to the narrow connection at the right hand
inclined section 5. As shown in the cross sectional views of figures 7 and 8, the lower side of
the head 11 tapers to a downwardly directed sharp edge 12. In use, this sharp edge 12
engages with steps 13 that are disposed on the upper face of the wedge 14 shown in figures 9
to 13.
          In use, the stem 6 extends from the proximal end 7, through a joint between a pair of
adjacent tiles, to a distal end 8 that protrudes beyond the tiled surface. A number of gripping
formations are disposed upon the protruding portion of the stem 6. One type of gripping
formation is the V-shaped projections 9 that are disposed on either side of the head 11 that is
at the distal end 8 of the stem 6.
          Another type of gripping formation is in the form of serrations 10 formed upon either
outer edge of the stem 6. As best shown in figures 1 and 6, the serrations 10 commence at a
point roughly halfway up either side of the stem 6 and extend across the lower halves of each
of the V-shaped projections 9. In use, this positioning of the V-shaped projections 9 and the
serrations 10 assists with the impacting step of the method described below.
          Typically, the preferred embodiment is constructed from a polymer material, such as
a plastics material, which is formed via a moulding process such as injection moulding.
          The steps of the method of using the device 1 to lay first and second tiles upon a
surface are illustrated in figure 14. The method commences at step SI with the application of
a tiling adhesive to the surface and/or to the rear sides of the first and second tiles.
          At step S2 the first tile is positioned against the surface and retained there by the
action of the adhesive. As will be well known to those skilled in the art, the tile must be
positioned carefully and accurately with a view to achieving an aesthetically pleasing finish.

                                                     6
           At step S3 a portion of the base 2 of the device 1 is slid into a position underneath the
first tile such that part of the first tile rests upon one half of the platform section 4 and an edge
of the first tile abuts a first side of the stem 6. The device 1 is held in place by the action of
the adhesive.
           At step S4 the second tile is positioned against the surface and is retained in place by
the action of the adhesive. It is positioned over the opposite half of the platform section 4
such that an edge of the second tile abuts a second side of the stem 6 (i.e. the side of the stem
6 that is opposite to the side that the first tile abuts). Hence, the stem 6 extends between the
first and second tiles so as to protrude beyond the tiled surface. The width of the lower
portion of the stem 6 (i.e. the width of the stem 6 between the lower and upper tapers) then
defines the separation distance between the first and second tiles.
           At step S5 the wedge 14 is inserted into the hole formed by the protruding portion of
the stem 6. More specifically, the hole is rectangular in shape and is bound by the sharp edge
12, the inner edges of the stem 6 and the outer surfaces of the first and second tiles. The
wedge 14 is inserted until the steps 13 engage with the sharp edge 12 on the head 11 of the
stem 6 so as to force the outer surfaces of the first and second tiles substantially into
alignment with each other, which yields the desired even finish to the tiling. Typically,
additional tiles are then layed with the devices being used to define the separation distance
between each of the tiles and to achieve a planar finish.
           At step S6 the adhesive is allowed to cure.
           At step S7 an object is impacted upon at least one of the gripping formations 9 and/or
10 so as to frangibly separate the stem 6 from the base 2. Typically the object will be a shoe
or boot worn by the person wishing to detach the stems. The impact may be made by any
desired portion of the shoe or boot, such as the heel or the toe, for example. In other words,
via the simple expedient of kicking at least one of the gripping portions 9 or 10, the stem 6
may be detached from the base 2. It will be appreciated that the presence of the gripping
portions 9 and 10 makes it more likely that the kicking action will be effective in detaching
the stem 6 by lowering the risk that the shoe ineffectually deflects off the stem 6.
Alternatively, the object may be any other object that with sufficient mass such that the
impact is likely to detach the stem 6, such as a piece of timber, a tool such as a mallet, etc.

                                                 7
           While a number of preferred embodiments have been described, it will be
appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or modifications may be
made to the invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
illustrative and not restrictive.

                                                   8
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A device for use in the laying of tiles, the device including:
        a base configured in use to be at least partly disposed underneath a tiled surface; and
        a stem having a proximal end frangibly connected to the base, wherein, in use, the
stem extends from the proximal end, through a joint between a pair of adjacent tiles, to a
distal end protruding beyond the tiled surface;
        wherein at least one gripping formation is disposed upon a protruding portion of the
stem.
2.      A device according to claim 1 wherein the gripping formation is a V-shaped
projection disposed at or adjacent to the distal end of the stem.
3.      A device according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the gripping formation is in the form of
serrations formed upon an edge of the stem.
4.      A device according to claim 2 wherein serrations are formed upon an edge of the V
shaped projection.
5.      A method of laying first and second tiles upon a surface, the method including the
steps of:
        providing a device as defined in any one of claims 1 to 4;
        applying an adhesive to the surface and/or to rear sides of the first and second tiles;
        positioning the first tile against the surface;
        sliding a portion of the base underneath the first tile such that an edge of the first tile
abuts a first side of the stem;
        positioning the second tile against the surface and an opposite portion of the base such
that an edge of the second tile abuts a second opposite side of the stem and such that the stem
extends between the first and second tiles so as to protrude beyond the tiled surface;
        inserting a wedge into a hole disposed in a protruding portion of the stem so as to
force outer surfaces of the first and second tiles substantially into alignment;
        allowing the adhesive to cure; and

                                              9
       impacting an object upon the gripping formation so as to frangibly separate the stem
from the base.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                         !
                         "! #
                             #
              "        ! !
                   #
                   $     !
                   %
                   %
                       #"!
              $&   # !
                   !&

