Abstract
A method is provided for generating one or more optically variable devices, said
optically variable device including a lens array provided on one surface of a substrate
and an array of image elements provided on an opposing surface of the substrate, the
method including the following steps: providing an original interlaced image formed by
interlacing a plurality of images, said interlaced image including an array of image
pixels and blank pixels, selectively blanking one or more image pixels to create a
continuum of blank pixels, thereby forming a modified interlaced image, wherein an
extent of the continuum of blank pixels is determined based on a resolution limit of a
printing technique used to apply the image elements on the substrate based on the
modified interlaced image.

                    1/13
                    135
                                    145
          14015
                                         100
                                       105
        120 115
130 125
                                110
                 Figure 1A
                                     155
                                       105
                               155
                 Figure 1B 155
                                          160
             115
130 125 120
                 Figure 1C

                                               1
                METHODS FOR MULTI-CHANNEL IMAGE INTERLACING
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates to methods for producing optically variable
image elements on a substrate to be viewed through a lens array or other lens
microstructure.
Background of Invention
[0002]      Security devices are applied to security documents or similar articles, such
as identity cards, passports, credit cards, bank notes, cheques and the like and may
take the form of diffraction gratings and similar optically detectable microstructures.
Such security devices are difficult to falsify or modify, and are easily damaged or
destroyed by any attempts to tamper with the document. Some of these security
devices include focussing elements, such as micro lenses, which act to sample and
magnify image elements and project imagery which is observable to a user for
authentication purposes.
[0003]      Micro-image elements in thin security documents typically have a small
number of image channels, particularly if the image is applied to the substrate using
standard print methods such as flexo-printing, offset printing or gravure printing. This
is because standard printing methods have a limited print resolution, and additionally
because the micro lenses used in security documents, such as bank notes, must be
very small in order to maintain the desired thinness of the document, and maintain a
small focal length, i.e. to enable the micro lenses to focus on micro-imagery deployed
within their focal plane.
[0004]      Conventional multi-channel optically variable imagery security features
may be achieved by applying micro-image elements underneath an array of lenticular
lenses, usually in their focal plane, or substantially close to it. The lens width (or the
lens pitch - if this is greater than the lens width) is roughly an integer multiple of the
minimum width of an image element, which means that the maximum number of
image channels possible is equal to the width (or pitch - if this is greater than the lens

                                               2
width) of each micro-lens divided by the minimum width of an image element. For
example, if the lenses are each 50 pm wide, and the minimum image element size is
25 pm, only two image channels can be produced using this method.
[0005]       A disadvantage of this approach is that the maximum number of image
channels is limited by the ratio of the lens width (or the lens pitch - if this is greater
than the lens width) to the minimum image element size. However, the fewer the
number of image channels, the easier it is for the security feature to be counterfeited.
[0006]       The ever increasing sophistication of counterfeiting operations requires
continuous improvement in the design of security devices for protecting documents
against such forgery. One such improvement would be to print multi-channel images.
However, to be able to print multi-channel (i.e. more than two image channels) using
conventional printing techniques, i.e. using the same print resolution or dot size,
requires variations to the known method for creating the imagery.
[0007]       It would be desirable to provide a method for producing a multi-channel
micro-optic device, which projects an optically variable image to the user, wherein the
multi-channel device can be easily and/or inexpensively manufactured.
[0008]       A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as
prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known
or that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at
the priority date of any of the claims.
Summary of Invention
[0009]       According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
for generating an optically variable device, said optically variable device including a
lens array provided on one surface of a substrate and an array of image elements
provided on an opposing surface of the substrate, the method including the following
steps:
             providing an original interlaced image formed by interlacing a plurality of
images, said interlaced image including an array of image pixels and blank pixels;

                                               3
             selectively blanking one or more image pixels to create a continuum of
blank pixels, thereby forming a modified interlaced image,
             wherein an extent of the continuum of blank pixels is determined based on
a resolution limit of a printing technique used to apply the image elements on the
substrate based on the modified interlaced image.
[0010]       In a particular embodiment, the extent of the continuum of blank pixels is
equal to or greater than a size of the resolution limit of the printing technique.
[0011]       In another embodiment, the continuum of blank pixels and the resolution
limit of the printing technique lie in the same direction.
[0012]       The array of pixels, i.e. the image pixels and the blank pixels, may
comprise a plurality of image sections, wherein each image section corresponds to
one of the plurality of interlaced images. The array of pixels may be arranged in rows
and columns and the one or more image pixels are selectively blanked such that the
continuum of blank pixels extends at least from one image pixel lying in a row or
column to another non adjacent image pixel lying in the same row or column.
[0013]       In some embodiments, the image pixels are selectively blanked in image
sections which are arranged vertically. In other embodiments, the image pixels are
selectively blanked in image sections which are arranged horizontally.
[0014]       In some forms of the invention, the step of selectively blanking one or more
image pixels from more than one image section to create a continuum of blank pixels
to form a modified interlaced image is repeated, such that if in the first instance the
image pixels are selectively blanked in image sections which are arranged vertically,
the pixels are selectively blanked in image sections which are arranged horizontally
when the step is repeated.
[0015]       In other forms of the invention, the step of selectively blanking one or more
image pixels from more than one image section to create a continuum of blank pixels
to form a modified interlaced image is repeated, such that if in the first instance the

                                               4
pixels are processed in image sections which are arranged horizontally, the pixels are
processed in image sections which are arranged vertically when the step is repeated.
[0016]      The array of pixels may comprise a binary image consisting of a plurality of
pixels of a first colour and a plurality of pixels of a second colour. The method may
further comprise the step of overprinting one or more pixels of the first or second
colour with a contrasting colour.
[0017]      In some embodiments, the first colour is black and the second colour is
white. In one embodiment, the image pixels are black pixels and the blank pixels are
white pixels. In another embodiment, the image pixels are white pixels and the blank
pixels are black pixels.
[0018]      Each image section may be one pixel wide and each pixel may have a
width that substantially equals to half of a width or half of a pitch of a single lens. More
generally, each pixel has a width such that an integral multiple of widths are equal to
the lens width or the lens pitch.
[0019]      The original interlaced image may comprise a first image and a second
image interlaced together, the first image being divided into a first set of image
sections and the second image being divided into a second set of image sections.
[0020]      In some embodiments, the modified interlaced image is formed by
positioning image sections from the first set of image sections beneath every other
lens in the lens array and positioning image sections from the second set of image
sections beneath every alternate other lens, and wherein a first displacement of each
image section from the first set of image sections to a first optical axis of the
respective every other lens less a second displacement of each image section from
the second set of image sections to a second optical axis of the respective alternate
every other lens equals plus or minus half the width or half of the pitch of a single
lens. This embodiment may be referred to as a two-channel example.
[0021]      In another embodiment, the modified interlaced image is formed by
positioning the first set of image sections beneath every other lens associated with
every alternate row of pixels, and positioning the second set of images sections

                                              5
beneath every alternate other lens in every alternate other row of pixels, and wherein
a first displacement of each image section from the first set of image sections to a first
optical axis of the respective lens less a second displacement of each image section
from the second set of image sections to a second optical axis of the respective
alternate every other lens equals plus or minus half of the width or half of the pitch of
a single lens. This embodiment may be referred to as a two-channel checkerboard
example.
[0022]       In yet another embodiment, the modified interlaced image is formed by
positioning the first and second sets of image sections beneath every alternate lens,
wherein the alternate lens selected for each set of image sections in a row comprises
a random binary selection, and wherein a first displacement of each image section
from the first set of image sections to a first optical axis of the respective lens less a
second displacement of each image section from the second set of image sections to
a second optical axis of the respective alternate lens equals plus or minus half of the
width or half of the pitch of a single lens. This embodiment may be referred to as a
two-channel with random interleaving example.
[0023]       In some forms of the invention, N binary images are interlaced to form N
image sections per lens, wherein N is an integer equal to or greater than 3, each
image section being one pixel wide and each pixel has a width that is substantially
equal to 1/N of a width or a pitch of a single lens.
[0024]       The modified interlaced image maybe formed by positioning the image
sections beneath the lenses such that a displacement of each image section of a set
of image sections S to a respective lens optical axis of an associated lens, less a
second displacement of each image section of an adjacent set of image sections
(S+1) to a respective lens optical axis of the associated lens, wherein S is a positive
integer not exceeding (N-1), equals plus or minus 1/N of a width or a pitch of one
lens, and wherein the image sections are arranged in a repeating sequence of two
adjacent sections followed by (N - 1) blank adjacent sections. This embodiment may
be described as a generic N-channel per lens example having two adjacent sections
followed by (N-1) blank sections.

                                            6
[0025]      The displacement of a first image section in each row of pixels relative to a
reference axis is equal to R/N of the width or the pitch of one lens, wherein R is a
random integer from 0 to N. This embodiment may be described as a generic N
channel per lens example having two adjacent sections followed by (N-1) blank
sections including randomisation.
[0026]      In some of the foregoing embodiments, N is equal to 4.
[0027]      In some embodiments, a height of each row of pixels is at least equal to a
minimum size of the image element. Row height is set to a minimum size to ensure
the pixels can be printed, however the size selected is preferably sufficiently small
that it cannot be resolved with the naked eye. This ensures the image fidelity is not
compromised, for example, so that the checkerboard effect cannot be seen with the
naked eye. If the minimum row height is too large, then the checkerboard may
become visible (undesirable). Vertical interlacing artefacts are an undesirable
consequence of blanking the image sections. Vertical interlacing artefacts can be
eliminated using a checker board interlacing approach as described, but if the
minimum size height of each row of pixels is too large then checkerboard artefacts
may replace the vertical interlacing artefacts. Setting the pixel row height to be at
least equal to a minimum image element size, that is not easily resolved with the
naked eye, ameliorates this problem.
[0028]      The image sections from a first set of image sections and a second set of
image sections may be derived from a first binary image and the sections from a third
set of image sections and a fourth set of image sections may be derived from a
second binary image that is different from the first binary image, and the first set of
image sections are arranged to be adjacent to the second set of image sections, and
the second set of image sections are arranged to be adjacent to the third set of image
sections, and the third set of image sections are arranged to be adjacent to the fourth
set of image sections. This embodiment may be described as a two channel image
example using four channels.
[0029]      In some embodiments, the image sections from alternating sets of image
sections are blank image sections. This particular embodiment may be described as a

                                               7
two channel image example using four channels, with alternating channels that are
blank.
[0030]       The optically variable image elements may be formed on the substrate by
one or more of the following methods of printing: gravure; flexographic; or offset.
Preferably, the minimum size of the image element is equal to or greater than a
minimum size that can be printed using the printing techniques.
[0031]       According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
optically variable device including a lens array provided on one surface of a substrate
and an array of image elements provided on an opposing surface of the substrate, the
array of image elements are printed on the substrate by a selected printing technique
based on a modified interlaced image, said modified interlaced image being formed
by:
             interlacing a plurality of images into an array of image pixels and blank
pixels, thereby forming an original interlaced image;
             selectively blanking one or more image pixels to form a continuum of blank
pixels, thereby forming the modified interlaced image,
             wherein an extent of the continuum of blank pixels is determined based on
a resolution limit of the printing technique.
[0032]       In a particular embodiment, the extent of the continuum of blank pixels is
equal to or greater than a size of the resolution limit of the selected printing technique.
[0033]       In another embodiment, the continuum of blank pixels and the resolution
limit of the printing technique lie in the same direction.
[0034]       The array of pixels, i.e. the image pixels and the blank pixels, may be
arranged in rows and columns and the continuum of blank pixels extends at least
from one image pixel lying in a row or column to another non-adjacent image pixel
lying in the same row or column.

                                               8
[0035]       The array of image pixels and blank pixels may comprise a plurality of
image sections, wherein each image section corresponds to one of the plurality of
interlaced images. In some embodiments, the image pixels are selectively blanked in
image sections which are arranged vertically. In other embodiments, the image pixels
are selectively blanked in image sections which are arranged horizontally.
[0036]       The array of pixels may comprise a binary image consisting of a plurality of
pixels of a first colour and a plurality of pixels of a second colour. The one or more
pixels of the first or second colour may be overprinted with a contrasting colour.
[0037]       In some embodiments, the first colour is black and the second colour is
white.
[0038]       In one embodiment, the image pixels are black pixels and the blank pixels
are white pixels. In another embodiment, the image pixels are white pixels and the
blank pixels are black pixels.
[0039]       Each image section may be one pixel wide and each pixel may have a
width that is substantially equal to half of a width or a pitch of a single lens. More
generally, each pixel has a width such that an integral number of widths are equal to
the lens width or the lens pitch.
[0040]       The plurality of images interlaced together may comprise a first image and
a second image interlaced together, the first image being divided into a first set of
image sections and the second image being divided into a second set of image
sections.
[0041]       In some embodiments, image sections from the first set of image sections
are positioned beneath every other lens in the lens array and image sections from the
second set of images sections are positioned beneath every alternate other lens, and
a first displacement of each image section from the first set of image sections to a first
optical axis of the respective every other lens less a second displacement of each
image section from the second set of image sections to a second optical axis of the
respective alternate every other lens equals plus or minus half the width or the pitch
of a single lens. This embodiment may be referred to as a two-channel example.

                                             9
[0042]       In another embodiment, the first set of image sections are positioned
beneath every other lens associated with every alternate row of pixels, and the
second set of images sections are positioned beneath every alternate other lens in
every alternate other row of pixels, and wherein a first displacement of each image
section from the first set of image sections to a first optical axis of the respective lens
less a second displacement of each image section from the second set of image
sections to a second optical axis of the respective alternate every other lens equals
plus or minus half of the width or the pitch of a single lens. This embodiment may be
referred to as a two-channel checkerboard example.
[0043]       In yet another embodiment, the first and second sets of image sections are
positioned beneath every alternate lens, wherein the alternate lens selected for each
set of image sections in a row comprises a random binary selection, and wherein a
first displacement of each image section from the first set of image sections to a first
optical axis of the respective lens less a second displacement of each image section
from the second set of image sections to a second optical axis of the respective
alternate lens equals plus or minus half of the width or the pitch of a single lens. This
embodiment may be referred to as a two-channel with random interleaving example.
[0044]       In some forms of the invention, N binary images are interlaced to form N
image sections per lens, wherein N is an integer equal to or greater than 3, each
image section being one pixel wide and each pixel has a width that is substantially
equal to 1/N of a width or a pitch of a single lens.
[0045]      The image sections may be positioned beneath the lenses such that a
displacement of each image section of set of image sections S to a respective lens
optical axis of an associated lens, less a second displacement of each image section
of an adjacent set of image sections (S+1) to a respective lens optical axis of the
associated lens, wherein S is a positive integer not exceeding (N-1), equals plus or
minus 1/N of a width or a pitch of one lens, and wherein the image sections are
arranged in a repeating sequence of two adjacent sections followed by (N - 1) blank
adjacent sections. This embodiment may be described as a generic N-channel per
lens example having two adjacent sections followed by (N-1) blank sections.

                                              10
[0046]      The displacement of a first image section in each row of pixels relative to a
reference axis is equal to R/N of the width or the pitch of one lens, wherein R is a
random integer from 0 to N. This embodiment may be described as a generic N
channel per lens example having two adjacent sections followed by (N-1) blank
sections including randomisation.
[0047]      In some of the foregoing embodiments, N is equal to 4.
[0048]      The image sections from a first set of image sections and a second set of
image sections may be derived from a first binary image and the sections from a third
set of image sections and a fourth set of image sections are derived from a second
binary image that is different from the first binary image, and the first set of image
sections are arranged to be adjacent to the second set of image sections, and the
second set of image sections are arranged to be adjacent to the third set of image
sections, and the third set of image sections are arranged to be adjacent to the fourth
set of image sections. This embodiment may be described as a two channel image
example using four channels.
[0049]      In some embodiments, the image sections from alternating sets of image
sections are blank image sections. This particular embodiment may be described as a
two channel image example using four channels, with alternating channels that are
blank.
[0050]      The height of each row of pixels is preferably at least equal to a minimum
size of the image element. In one embodiment, the height of each row is 100 microns
or less. In another embodiment, the height of each row is 70 microns or less.
[0051]      In some embodiments, the optically variable image element includes one
or more of the following means of implementing an optically variable image: flip;
contrast switch; animation; morphing; three dimensional; magnifying moir6 images;
and integral images.
[0052]      Optionally, the image element and the lens array may be integrated into a
unitary structure.

                                             11
[0053]        The lens array may include one or more of the following: lenticular lenses;
round lenses; and parallax barrier screens.
[0054]        In some embodiments, the image element is implemented in one of the
following forms: as a printed image; as an embossed image; or as a micro-structure.
Definitions
Security Document or Token
[0055]        As used herein the term security document includes all types of documents
and tokens of value and identification documents including, but not limited to the
following: items of currency such as banknotes and coins, credit cards, cheques,
passports, identity cards, securities and share certificates, driver's licenses, deeds of
title, travel documents such as airline and train tickets, entrance cards and tickets,
birth, death and marriage certificates, and academic transcripts.
[0056]        The invention is particularly, but not exclusively, applicable to security
documents such as banknotes or identification documents such as identity cards or
passports formed from a substrate to which one or more layers of printing are applied.
The diffraction gratings and optically variable devices described herein may also have
application in other products, such as packaging.
Substrate
[0057]        As used herein, the term substrate refers to the base material from which
the security document or token is formed. The base material may be paper or other
fibrous material such as cellulose; a plastic or polymeric material including but not
limited to polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE), polycarbonate (PC), polyvinyl
chloride (PVC), polyethylene terephthalate (PET); or a composite material of two or
more materials, such as a laminate of paper and at least one plastic material, or of
two or more polymeric materials.
[0058]        The use of plastic or polymeric materials in the manufacture of security
documents pioneered in Australia has been very successful because polymeric
banknotes are more durable than their paper counterparts and can also incorporate

                                            12
new security devices and features. One particularly successful security feature in
polymeric banknotes produced for Australia and other countries has been a
transparent area or "window".
Security Device or Feature
[0059]     As used herein the term security device or feature includes any one of a
large number of security devices, elements or features intended to protect the security
document or token from counterfeiting, copying, alteration or tampering. Security
devices or features may be provided in or on the substrate of the security document
or in or on one or more layers applied to the base substrate, and may take a wide
variety of forms, such as security threads embedded in layers of the security
document; security inks such as fluorescent, luminescent and phosphorescent inks,
metallic inks,    iridescent inks, photochromic,     thermochromic,   hydrochromic or
piezochromic inks; printed and embossed features, including relief structures;
interference layers; liquid crystal devices; lenses and lenticular structures; optically
variable devices (OVDs) such as diffractive devices including diffraction gratings,
holograms and diffractive optical elements (DOEs).
Brief Description of Drawings
[0060]      Embodiments of the invention will now be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings. It is to be understood that the embodiments are given by
way of illustration only and the invention is not limited by this illustration. In the
drawings:
[0061]      Figure 1A shows an exemplary original interlaced image.
[0062]      Figure 1B shows the original interlaced image of Figure 1A with a plurality
of black pixels selected to be "blanked" or removed from the image.
[0063]      Figure 1C shows the modified interlaced image which has been processed
according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0064]      Figures 2A and 2B show two separate images to be interlaced to form a
two channel flipping image.

                                          13
[0065]      Figure 2C shows the two separate images interlaced to form an original
interlaced image.
[0066]      Figure 2D shows an enlarged version of a portion of the original interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 2C.
[0067]      Figure 2E shows a modified interlaced image generated in accordance with
an embodiment of the present invention.
[0068]      Figure 2F shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 2E.
[0069]      Figure 2G shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified
interlaced image, shown in the box in Figure 2F.
[0070]      Figure 3A shows a modified interlaced image generated using the
"checkerboard" approach in accordance with the method of the present invention.
[0071]      Figure 3B shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 3A.
[0072]      Figure 3C shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 3B.
[0073]      Figure 4A shows a modified interlaced two channel flipping image
generated using the "randomisation" approach in accordance with the method of the
present invention.
[0074]      Figure 4B shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 4A.
[0075]      Figure 4C shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 4B.
[0076]      Figures 5A to 5D show four images to be interlaced, to generate a four
channel flipping image.

                                         14
[0077]     Figure 5E shows the four images shown in Figures 5A to 5D interlaced to
form an original interlaced image.
[0078]     Figure 5F shows an enlarged version of a portion of the original interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 5E.
[0079]     Figure 5G shows the modified interlaced image generated in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0080]     Figure 5H shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 5G.
[0081]     Figure 5J shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 5H.
[0082]     Figure 6A shows a modified interlaced four channel flipping image
generated using the "randomisation" approach in accordance with the method of the
present invention.
[0083]     Figure 6B shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 6A.
[0084]     Figure 6C shows an enlarged version of a portion of the modified interlaced
image, shown in the box in Figure 6B.
[0085]     Figures 7A to 7D shows a series of four binary images of a tennis player
superimposed on an array of the numeral "20" wherein each of the binary images
shown in Figures 7A to 7D represents one of four image channels.
[0086]      Figure 7E shows an interlaced image generated by interlacing the binary
images according to an embodiment of the present invention utilising four image
channels and a randomisation approach.
[0087]     Figure 7F shows an enlarged version of a portion of the interlaced image,
shown in the box in Figure 7E.
[0088]     Figure 8A shows a standard interlaced image having 16 image channels.

                                             15
[0089]      Figure 8B shows the principles of the present invention applied to an
interlaced image having 16 image channels.
[0090]      Figure 8C shows a pixel array representing interlaced images with no
randomisation applied.
[0091]      Figure 8D shows a pixel array representing interlaced images with
randomisation applied to the vertical interlacing phase according to an embodiment of
the present invention.
[0092]      Figure 8E shows a pixel array representing interlaced images with
randomisation applied to the vertical interlacing phase followed by randomisation
applied to the horizontal interlacing phase according to another embodiment of the
present invention.
[0093]      Figure 8F shows the modified interlaced image generated in accordance
with the method described by reference to Figure 8E.
[0094]      Figure 8G shows an annotated version of Figure 8A.
Detailed Description
[0095]      The present invention is directed to a method for generating an optically
variable device, and an optically variable device formed on a substrate by such a
method, which ameliorates at least some deficiencies of the prior art by increasing the
number of images that may be interlaced together, i.e. image channels, to produce an
optically variable image for observation through a lens array, using conventional print
methods such as gravure, flexographic and offset printing, which offer standard print
resolutions.
[0096]      The innovative method of generating such optically variable devices to be
viewed using an array of lenses to produce the desired optically variable effect, such
as a three dimensional or animation effect, involves generating a modified interlaced
image by selectively blanking or removing image pixels from the interlaced image
sections to form a continuum of blank pixels having an extent that is at least equal to
or greater than a resolution of a printing technique used to generate the image

                                              16
element. The resolution limit of the printing technique used to apply the image
elements on the substrate determines a minimum size of the image element.
[0097]      Referring now to Figure 1A, there is shown an exemplary 10 x 10 pixel
array representing a portion of a binary image 100 consisting of a plurality of black
pixels 105 and a plurality of white pixels 110, i.e. blank pixels and image pixels. The
image is generated by interlacing four images, that is, the pixel array is divided into
four image sections or slices 115, 120, 125 and 130, wherein each image section
corresponds to one of the interlaced images. The portion of the binary image 100
spans 2.5 lenses of the lens array 135 through which the binary image 100 is to be
observed. That is, each lens 140, 145 and 150 spans one set of four image sections
115, 120, 125 and 130. In the illustrated example, it is to be understood that the print
resolution provides a minimum feature size of three pixels wide, i.e. equating to 75%
of the width of one lens 140 and 145. In this particular example, the white pixels 110
correspond to the image elements that need to be printed on the substrate by the
selected printing technique, which has a resolution limit of 3 pixels in the horizontal
direction.
[0098]      Referring now to Figure 1B, a selection of the plurality of black pixels 105
of Figure 1A is depicted as grey pixels, i.e. 155. In accordance with the inventive
method, these selected pixels 155, are "blanked" or removed from the binary image
100. Selection of the pixels 155 to be blanked, is based on fulfilling the requirement
that pixels are blanked from the interlaced image sections 115, 120, 125 and 130 so
as to form a continuum of blank pixels (see Figure 1C). The continuum of blank pixels
and the resolution limit of the printing technique lie in the same direction. More
specifically, in the illustrated case, the continuum extends perpendicularly to the
direction of the image sections (which are positioned vertically in the illustrated
example), to an extent that is equal to or greater than a resolution of a printing
technique used to generate the image element. As was stated in relation to Figure 1A,
in this case, the minimum image element size enabled by the print resolution is three
pixels wide.
[0099]      Referring now to Figure 1C, there is shown the resulting modified
interlaced image 160, which has been processed according to the method of the

                                               17
present invention. That is, a continuum of blank pixels which equals or exceeds the
minimum image element size of three pixels and is provided perpendicularly to the
direction of the image sections 115, 120, 125 and 130. Accordingly, assuming that
there is no limitation of the vertical print resolution for the purposes of this example, all
features (corresponding to the continuum of blank pixels) can be printed satisfactorily
using the resolution provided by conventional printing techniques.
[0100]      In practice, the vertical print resolution will be limited for some image
element designs. In such a case, the steps of the method for generating the image
element may be repeated, i.e. on the resulting modified interlaced image 160, but
rather than processing the pixels to selectively blank pixels in vertical image sections,
they are processed in horizontal sections. The same could be achieved by turning the
modified interlaced image 160 90 degrees and then processing the pixels to
selectively blank pixels in vertical image sections in accordance with the initial
process.
[0101]      It will be appreciated that the example illustrated in Figures 1A to 1C and
the subsequent examples are depicted such that black pixels are selectively blanked
from the pixel array to form a continuum of white image pixels. However, it will be
understood that the image element of the present invention could equally be achieved
by selectively blanking white pixels from the pixel array to form a continuum of black
"blank" pixels. That is, the method achieves a continuum of blank pixels that is equal
to or exceeds the minimum printable feature size in that direction.
[0102]      In one embodiment, the continuum of blank pixels is printed in a first colour
and optionally overprinted in a second contrasting colour. For example, if the
continuum of pixels is printed on a reverse side of substrate to that upon which the
lenses are disposed, in white ink, and the white ink is subsequently overprinted with a
second contrasting colour, e.g. red ink, micro-imagery elements are formed in the
colour red on a white background, and magnified by the micro-lenses to create the
desired optical effect.
[0103]      Referring now to Figures 2A to 2G there is shown an exemplary
implementation of a two-channel design providing a flipping image effect when

                                              18
observed through a lens array from two different viewing angles. In this case, the
imagery has been interlaced using standard prior art methods, and the minimum
image element size required to realise the flipping image effect is equal to half of the
width (or pitch) of one lens. On thin substrates such as banknotes, which require
lenses with very small width or pitch, such minimum image element sizes cannot be
achieved using conventional gravure printing techniques. The present invention
overcomes this problem, enabling flipping images to be printed on banknotes using
standard gravure resolutions. A further advantage is that the resulting image element
is substantially free of anomalies such as ghosting and channel cross-talk when
magnified and observed through a lens array.
[0104]      Using gravure printing as an example of a conventional printing technique,
the minimum size of image elements that can be reliably printed is 35 to 45pm.
Accordingly, to create a two-channel flipping image, free of anomalies such as
ghosting and channel cross-talk, the lens array used to observe the image requires
lenses having a width (or pitch, if this is greater than the lens width) of around 90pm.
Use of such large lenses for a thin security document is not viable, since they would
cause the thickness of the substrate to which they are applied to become too thick.
For example, if the substrate is a security document such as a bank note, then use of
such large lenses would adversely impact tactility of the document.
[0105]      Using the method of the present invention, smaller image elements, also
referred to as micro-imagery can be designed to be positioned underneath smaller
lenses. For example, lenses having a width (or pitch) of 63.5pm can be used together
with image elements printed to a size of 63.5pm using gravure printing techniques.
[0106]      Referring now to Figures 2A and 2B, there are shown two separate images
to be interlaced to form a two-channel, flipping image. Figure 2A shows an image 210
of the numeral "111" and Figure 2B shows an image 220 of the numeral "222". That
is, in a two-channel, flipping image, the numeral "111" shown in Figure 2A is observed
when the interlaced image (see Figures 2C and 2D) is viewed from one angle and the
numeral "222" shown in Figure 2B is observed when the interlaced image is viewed
from another angle.

                                              19
[0107]       Referring now to Figure 2C, there is shown the interlaced image sections
as they would appear in the "original" interlaced image 230, i.e. as produced using
interlacing or interleaving techniques known in the art. Figure 2D shows an enlarged
version of box 240 in Figure 2C. In this case, the smallest image element 250, i.e. a
line having a width of approximately 31.75pm, is generally regarded as being too
small to print reliably using conventional gravure printing techniques. That is, to be
printed reliably via gravure, the minimum feature size must be at least 35 to 45pm.
Accordingly, printing the interlaced image 230 shown in Figure 2C using conventional
gravure printing techniques is likely to give rise to anomalies such as ghosting and
cross-talk, that is, both image channels 210 and 220 will be simultaneously
observable at some angles of observation, i.e. generally corresponding to where the
image sections for the two channels overlap.
[0108]       Referring now to Figures 2E and 2G, there is shown a modified interlaced
image 260 generated in accordance with the method of the present invention. In this
case, image pixels have been selectively blanked, such that channel one pixels, i.e. in
the first image section, are present for every odd lens 280, and channel two pixels,
i.e. in the second image section, are present for every even lens 290. The selective
blanking of pixels can result in entire image sections or slices being removed to form
the modified interlaced image. This ensures that the continuum of blank pixels that
lies perpendicular to the image sections has an extent that is equal to or greater than
one lens width or pitch, i.e. 63.5pm. Significantly, this size lies well within the printing
capabilities of conventional printing techniques such as gravure, flexographic or offset
printing, enabling two channel flipping images to be printed reliably using conventional
techniques without adversely impacting image quality by ghosting or other anomalies.
[0109]       The example illustrated in Figures 2E to 2G, may exhibit parallel vertical
lines that are void of colour, i.e. corresponding to the columns of pixels that have
been blanked from the modified interlaced image. This may be addressed by dividing
the original interlaced image into rows, and for each row, place the channel one
pixels, i.e. those in the first image section, under every odd lens and the channel two
pixels, i.e. those in the second image section, under every even lens. For every
alternate row, place the channel one pixels, under every even lens and the channel

                                             20
two pixels, under every odd lens. Using this approach, the contrast of the image is
maintained, at 50%, but rather than observing parallel vertical lines that are void of
colour in the magnified image, a checkerboard of void colour is created, maintaining
image quality. This approach can also be shown as :
                   standard interleaved slices:          12  12 12  12  12
                                                         12  12 12  12  12
                                                         12  12 12  12  12
                                                         12  12 12  12  12
                   new interleaved slices:               1-  -2 1-  -2  1
                                                         -2  1-  -2 1-  -2
                                                         1-  -2 1-  -2  1
                                                         -2  1-  -2 1-  -2
[0110]       Assuming the height of each row is relatively small, e.g. 35 pm, preferably,
at least equal to the minimum printable feature size in the vertical direction, the
checkerboard effect will not be visually discernible when the modified interlaced
image is observed, since the size of each rectangle within the checkerboard is very
small, i.e. 63.5 pm X 35 pm. Accordingly, the resulting modified interlaced image is a
high fidelity image having no undesirable vertical interlacing artefacts.
[01111        Referring now to Figures 3A to 3C, there is shown an exemplary
implementation of the "checkerboard" approach to generating a modified interlaced
image. The image 300 has been divided into rows comprising odd rows and even
rows. Pixels have been selectively blanked in odd rows, such that channel one pixels,
i.e. in the first image section, are present under every even lens 320 and channel two
pixels, i.e. in the second image section, are present under every odd lens 330, and
selectively blanked in even rows, such that channel one pixels, are present under
every odd lens and channel two pixels, are present under every even lens. This
approach avoids the selective blanking of image pixels resulting in entire image
sections or slices being removed to form the modified interlaced image, but instead
generates a checkerboard effect. It can be seen in Figure 3C that the extent of the
continuum of blank pixels 340, positioned perpendicular to the direction of the image
sections, is at least one lens 320, 330 width or pitch, i.e. 63.5pm, wherein the width or
pitch of one lens lies well within the resolution of conventional printing techniques.

                                              21
[0112]      Another option involves dividing the original interlaced image into rows.
Within each row, channel one pixels are placed under alternate lenses to channel two
pixels. However, the alternate lens selected for each channel is a random binary
selection of either every odd lens or every even lens. The effect of randomisation is
that the vertical lines in the modified interlaced image are removed without comprising
contrast or image brightness (which is maintained at around 50% as in the previously
described examples). Accordingly, the resulting modified interlaced image is a high
fidelity image having no undesirable vertical interlacing artefacts.
[0113]      Referring now to Figures 4A to 4C, there is shown an exemplary
implementation of the "randomised" approach to generating a modified interlaced
image in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Referring now to
Figure 4A, there is shown a modified interlaced image 400 generated in accordance
with the method of the present invention. In this case, the image 400 has been
divided into rows, comprising odd rows and even rows. Pixels have been selectively
blanked, such that a completely random selection of pixels from respective image
channels are positioned under each odd lens or each even lens, provided that the
extent of the continuum of blank pixels, positioned perpendicular to the direction of
the image sections, has an extent at least equal to the width or pitch of one lens 420.
Figure 4B shows box 410 of the image 400 enlarged, and Figure 4C shows box 410
enlarged again, more clearly showing the resulting effect.
[0114]      The embodiments shown in Figures 3A to 3C and Figures 4A to 4C are
particularly useful for implementing two-channel flipping images using standard print
resolutions. The resulting modified interlaced images cannot be replicated using
commercially available interlacing software, ultimately making it difficult for the image
designs to be copied by a counterfeiter.
[0115]      It should be understood by those skilled in the relevant art, that the method
of the invention, and particularly the step of selectively blanking image pixels from
image sections, can be understood to constitute either selective blanking or removal
of image pixels, from a binary image consisting of interlaced image sections, or
alternatively can be considered in terms of selective placement of image pixels, in a
binary image consisting of interlaced image sections. In the first case, the pixels could

                                             22
be selectively removed in accordance with one or more masks or templates, that
define which pixel, section or channel is to be removed from beneath each lens in the
lens array. For example, using the "randomised" approach the template or templates
are offset in the horizontal direction by a random integral number of image sections or
slices. The end result of this approach is the same as the "randomised" approach
described with reference to Figures 4A to 4C.
[0116]      In other embodiments, it may be desirable to interlace more than two
images to generate an interlaced image comprising three or more image channels.
For example, referring now to Figures 5A to 5D there are shown four images 502,
504, 506 and 508 to be interlaced, to generate a four-channel flipping image. Channel
1 is shown in Figure 5A, channel 2 is shown in Figure 5B, channel 3 is shown in
Figure 5C and channel 4 is shown in Figure 5D.
[0117]      Referring now to Figure 5E, the four images 502, 504, 506 and 508 are
interlaced to form original interlaced image 510. In this example the lens width or pitch
is 63.5 microns and the smallest image feature, i.e. a black or white line is 63.5/4 =
15.875pm wide. This feature size is too small to be printed reliably using conventional
printing methods such as gravure. However, by generating a modified interlaced
image using the method of the present invention, an image element is produced that
can be printed using conventional printing methods. Figure 5F is an enlargement of
box 512 in Figure 5E and shows a portion of the original interlaced image.
[0118]      Referring now to Figure 5G, there is shown the result of interlacing the four
images in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. That is, using N
image sections per lens, wherein N is equal to or greater than 3, retain two adjacent
pixels, blank or omit the next (N minus 1) pixels, retain the next two pixels, then blank
or omit the next (N minus 1) pixels, and so on. In the example where N = 4, (i.e. four
image sections are allocated per lens), this involves retaining two adjacent pixels,
blanking or omitting the next three pixels, retaining the next two pixels, then blanking
or omitting the next three pixels, and so on. This process ensures that the horizontal
extent of any continuum of blank pixels is at least equal to the width (N minus 1) = 3
pixels, and are at least    X 63.5 = 47.625pm wide. This ensures that all gaps
between image features are of sufficient size to be printed using conventional printing

                                             23
techniques. Moreover, this approach ensures that each of the four image channels is
represented equally within the modified interlaced image, i.e. that the number of
image sections in the modified interlaced image is approximately equal in respect of
each of the four interlaced images.
[0119]      It can be seen from Figure 5G when compared with Figure 5E, that
implementation of the inventive method may result in a reduction in contrast. In this
example, the brightness of the modified interlaced image shown in Figure 5G is 40%
of the brightness of the original interlaced image shown in Figure 5E which has no
selective blanking of pixels. Generally speaking, where N image sections are
allocated per lens, wherein N is equal to or greater than 3, then the reduction in
brightness provided by the method of generating an optically variable image element
in accordance with the present invention is given by the equation:
            Brightness reduction (%) = 100 - 100X2/(N+1)                 (Equation 1)
Equation 1 is derived since the interlacing method of the present invention repeats
after (N+1) image sections have been traversed, and only two sections per (N+1)
image sections are maintained (or not blanked). Therefore, the brightness of the
modified interlaced image, relative to an original interlaced image where all pixels
have been retained, is 100 X 2/(N+1). This is illustrated in the representation below,
wherein a "- "indicates a blanked pixel:
         standard interleaved slices:               1234 1234 1234 1234 1234
         new interleaved slices:                    12-- -23- -- 34 --- 4 1--
In this example, the minimum width of the continuum of blank pixels is (N-1)/N X the
lens width (or the lens pitch, whichever is greater). N is selected such that the width of
(N-1) pixels equals or exceeds the minimum printed feature size. The minimum
printed feature size will be print method dependent. As N increases, the print
resolution required decreases. Whilst this is advantageous for production, the
brightness of the image will decrease.
[0120]      It will be understood by those skilled in the art that without application of
the inventive method, it is not possible to print a four channel flipping image for
63.5pm lenses using conventional gravure print methods. Moreover, the image

                                              24
element design shown in Figures 5G to 5J, i.e. the modified interlaced image, cannot
be readily replicated using standard commercially available interlacing software.
[0121]       As with the exemplary embodiments described with reference to Figures
2E to 2G, the modified interlaced image in Figure 5J may be perceived as exhibiting
parallel vertical lines void of colour. As described with regard to the example
described with reference to Figures 2E to 2G, the occurrence of such lines void of
colour can be eliminated from the four channel flipping image, by applying a process
of randomisation to the selection of pixels to be blanked.
[0122]       In the same manner as with the previous example of a "randomised"
approach to generating a modified interlaced image, the original interlaced image is
divided into rows, and for each row, selection of the pixels to be blanked from the
image sections is randomised. More specifically, the offset of the first retained (i.e.
non blanked) pixel, relative to the beginning of each row, equals R times the width of
one image section, wherein R is a random integer in the range from 0 to N. In the
example of a four channel flipping image, integer R is randomly equal to one of 0, 1,
2, 3 or 4. This effectively "locks in" the position of each of the other pixels retained
(i.e. not blanked) in this particular row. In other words, randomising the "phase" of the
interlacing process for each row of the image. The previously described approach of
retaining two pixels, then blanking the next three, etc., is preserved throughout the
entire row and in each row, however the starting position of the interlacing process is
random for each row. This "randomised" approach has the effect of avoiding the
occurrence of vertical lines void of colour in the modified interlaced image without
further compromising the image brightness, which is maintained at 40%. The resulting
four channel flipping image, is of high visual fidelity provided that the row height
chosen is sufficiently small.
[0123]       Referring now to Figures 6A to 6C, there is shown the application of the
"randomised" approach for generating a modified four channel flipping image. Figure
6A shows the modified four channel interlaced image, whilst Figure 6B shows box
610, also shown in Figure 6A enlarged. Figure 6C shows box 610 enlarged more still,
showing that the interlacing is repeated every five lenses, but has a different, or
random, starting position in each row of the pixel array.

                                             25
[0124]      The randomised approach may also be applied to simulate images with a
smaller number of image channels, by interlacing a larger number of image channels.
For example, a two channel flipping image can be generated, using four image
channels, by assigning image A to channels 1 and 2 and image B to channels 3 and
4, and optionally using the randomisation approach to generate the modified
interlaced image. This approach provides an additional layer of security, since if a
counterfeiter was to attempt to replicate a two channel flipping image, they would be
unlikely to implement the replication using four image channels together with a
randomised approach. Accordingly, it is likely that a counterfeit could be detected by
microscopic examination of the image element.
[0125]      The use of four channels to implement a two channel flipping image
confers additional advantage, in that it is possible to more clearly distinguish two
image channels on observation, by introducing blank image channels into the image
channel viewing sequence. For example, a two channel flipping image could be
implemented using four image channels by assigning image A to image channel 1, a
blank image to image channel 2, image B to image channel 3 and assigning another
blank image to image channel 4. When the resulting interlaced image is observed
through a lens array while tilting the image element, at an initial viewing angle the
observer will see image A, followed by image A disappearing to a blank image,
followed by image B appearing, followed by image B disappearing to another blank
image and so on. This implementation is advantageous because, not only is there no
cross-talk between images A and B, but the image flipping effect appears slower,
making the two image channels easier to distinguish and authenticate by the
observer.
[0126]      This method of interlacing images to generate optically variable image
effects, may be applied to generate other optically variable effects such as contrast
switching, morphing, animation and 3D effects. Referring now to Figure 7A there is
shown a first binary image 710 consisting of a tennis player 715 and an array of the
numeral "20" 720. Figure 7B shows a second binary image 725 which is the same as
the first 710 except the tennis player 715 has been displaced to the right by a first
displacement and the numeral array has been displaced to the left by a second

                                            26
displacement. Figure 7C shows a third binary image 730 which is the same as the
second 725 except the tennis player 715 has been displaced to the right by a first
displacement and the numeral array has been displaced to the left by a second
displacement. Figure 7D shows a fourth binary image 735 which is the same as the
third 730 except the tennis player 715 has been displaced to the right by a first
displacement and the numeral array 720 has been displaced to the left by a second
displacement.
[0127]      Referring now to Figure 7E, there is shown an interlaced image 740
resulting from interlacing the four image channels shown in Figures 7A to 7D
respectively, using the method of the invention according to an embodiment using
four image channels per lens and a randomisation of the interlacing phase in each
row of the image. Figure 7F shows an enlarged portion of Figure 7E, designated as
box 750.
[0128]      When imagery generated in this manner is positioned in the focal plane of
a lens array, the magnified image comprises an image of the tennis player that
appears to float above the lenses, and an image of the array of the numeral "20" that
appears to float beneath the lenses. In both cases, the distance at which the images
appear to "float" above or beneath the lenses appears to be constant. This type of 3D
effect is easily recognisable by an observer and enables easy authentication. Even if
such a 3D image were attempted to be replicated by the counterfeiter, a counterfeit
version could be readily detected by microscopic examination of the image element.
[0129]      The optically variable image element of the present invention may be
employed to generate integrated lens and imagery structures, and in both single
sided and double-sided lens based optical security devices. Moreover, the principles
described may be applied to two dimensional lens and imagery arrays. For example,
referring now to Figure 8A, there is shown for comparison a standard interlacing
scheme for 16 image channels, that can be implemented for a rectangular array of
round lenses. In this case, rather than dividing each image channel into image
sections, wherein the width of the image section is determined such that an integral
number of the image sections will fit beneath each lens in the array, instead each
image channel, that is to be interlaced, is divided into image sections or zones 810,

                                            27
so that an integral number of image sections fit beneath each lens, in this example a
round lens, of the 2D rectangular lens array. In Figure 8A, 16 discrete image sections
are shown, each corresponding to the footprint of each of the 5 X 5 = 25 lenses in the
lens array. Each image zone comprises a square pixel in a 4 X 4 pixel array. Such an
image, if intended for a thin security document such as a banknote, cannot be printed
using conventional printing techniques due to inadequate print resolution.
[0130]      Referring now to Figure 8B, there is shown the principles of the present
invention applied to image elements designed for a rectangular array of round lenses.
In this case, again, the 16 image channels are arranged so that data from each image
channel is be positioned beneath each lens in the rectangular array in a location that
is associated with the particular image channel.
[0131]      However, in the case of Figure 8B, the approach described with reference
to Figures 5G to 5J has been applied in a second dimension. That is, the image
sections 820 that lie on two adjacent rows 830 and two adjacent columns 840 have
been selected not to be blanked, or to be retained, and the pixels in the three rows
850 and columns 860 adjacent to the retained pixels are selected to be blanked. As
previously described, this approach provides a continuum of blank pixels (indicated as
"XX") that enable the image features to be printed using the print resolution available
using conventional printing techniques.
[0132]      In Figure 8B, the perceived image brightness, when compared with the
brightness of a standard interlaced image in which all of the image zones are
retained, e.g. see Figure 8A, is equal to 100 X 2/(N+1) X 2/(N+1), i.e. in this example
equals 16%. If the resulting contrast is unsatisfactory, an alternative selection of
pixels to be blanked to form a continuum of blank pixels can be developed and
applied to increase the number of image sections that are not selectively blanked or
retained, thereby increasing the brightness.
[0133]      As described by reference to one dimensional lenses, randomisation may
be applied to eliminate parallel lines void of colour within the image, i.e. running both
horizontally and vertically. For example the phase of the interlacing can be

                                                28
randomised with respect to each row and each column of the pixel array. This is
shown in Figures 8C and 8D.
[0134]       Referring firstly to Figure 8C, there are shown interlaced images with no
randomisation applied. In this representation, each black square 870 represents a
cluster of 2 X 2 = 4 adjacent interlaced image channels, that is, as shown on Figure
8B. Referring secondly to Figure 8D, there are shown interlaced images with
randomisation applied to the vertical interlacing phase. That is, in each column 880 of
black squares, when viewed from left to right, the random phase offset used in the
interlacing is 0, 3, 1, and 2, wherein the top left corner of the image is datum point 0,
0.This randomisation will ameliorate parallel horizontal lines void of colour in the
observed image. Referring now to Figure 8E, there are shown interlaced images with
randomisation applied to the vertical interlacing phase followed by randomisation
applied to the horizontal interlacing phase. That is, in each column 880 of black
squares, when viewed from left to right, the random vertical phase offset used in the
interlacing is 0, 3, 1, and 2, wherein the top left corner of the image is datum point 0,
0.The random horizontal phase offset used in the interlacing is 0, 2, 1 and 3. This
randomisation will ameliorate parallel horizontal lines void of colour and parallel
vertical lines void of colour in the observed image. Referring finally to Figure 8F, there
is shown a representation of the resulting interlaced image according to Figure 8E.
[0135]       Referring now to Figure 8G, there is shown an annotated version of Figure
8A. The 16 image channels are denoted by square (i, j) wherein i = 0,1,2,3 and j =
0,1,2,3. For example, square (0, 0) is the top left square having the position x = 0 and
y = 0. Similarly, square (3, 3) is the bottom right square having the position x = 15 and
y = 15. x and y are pixel coordinates for the image sections and i and j are references
for the two dimensional array of squares (each square corresponding to 2 x 2 = 4
image sections that are not blanked), i.e.:
        xi = x position of square (i, j) = (Nx + 1 )i + Ri
        yi = y position of square (i, j) = (NY + 1 )j + Rj
        Rj= random integer for each row j (ranges from 0 to Nx-1)

                                             29
        Ri= random integer for each column i (ranges from 0 to Ny-1)
        Nx= number of integral sections per lens in X
        Ny= number of integral sections per lens in Y
        Nx 3
        NY > 3
The above equations describe the random arrangement shown in Figures 8E and 8F.
In the equations, if we set Ri and Rj to zero, then we get equations describing the
non-random arrangement shown in Figures 8B and 8C. In the equations, if we set Ri
to zero but retain Rj, then the equations describe arrangement shown in Figure 8D,
i.e. randomisation in one direction only.
[0136]      The method of the present invention confers a number of distinct
advantages. Specifically, it provides means by which optically variable image effects
can be generated using the print resolution available using conventional print
techniques, such as gravure, flexographic and offset. Moreover, implementing such
optically variable effects using the method of the present invention minimises
undesirable artefacts which result in anomalies such as ghosting and image channel
cross-talk.
[0137]      Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying
the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding
the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group
thereof.
[0138]      While the invention has been described in conjunction with a limited
number of embodiments, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many
alternative, modifications and variations in light of the foregoing description are
possible. Accordingly, the present invention is intended to embrace all such
alternative, modifications and variations as may fall within the spirit and scope of the
invention as disclosed.

                                           30
[0139]     The present application may be used as a basis or priority in respect of one
or more future applications and the claims of any such future application may be
directed to any one feature or combination of features that are described in the
present application. Any such future application may include one or more of the
following claims, which are given by way of example and are non-limiting in regard to
what may be claimed in any future application.

                                              31
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method for generating an optically variable device, said optically variable
device including a lens array provided on one surface of a substrate and an array of
image elements provided on an opposing surface of the substrate, the method
including the following steps:
        providing an original interlaced image formed by interlacing a plurality of
images, said interlaced image including an array of image pixels and blank pixels;
        selectively blanking one or more image pixels to create a continuum of blank
pixels, thereby forming a modified interlaced image,
        wherein an extent of the continuum of blank pixels is determined based on a
resolution limit of a printing technique used to apply the image elements on the
substrate based on the modified interlaced image.
2.      The method for generating an optically variable device according to claim 1,
wherein the extent of the continuum of blank pixels is equal to or greater than a size
of the resolution limit of the printing technique.
3.      The method for generating an optically variable device according to claim 1 or
2, wherein the continuum of blank pixels and the resolution limit of the printing
technique lie in the same direction.
4.      The method for generating an optically variable device according to any one of
claims 1 to 3, wherein the image elements are formed on the substrate by one or
more of the following methods of printing:
    (a)    gravure;
    (b)    flexographic; and
    (c)    offset.
5.      An optically variable device including a lens array provided on one surface of a
substrate and an array of image elements provided on an opposing surface of the

                                             32
substrate, the array of image elements being printed on the substrate by a selected
printing technique based on a modified interlaced image, wherein the modified
interlaced image is formed by:
            interlacing a plurality of images into an array of image pixels and blank
pixels, thereby forming an original interlaced image;
            selectively blanking one or more image pixels to form a continuum of blank
pixels, thereby forming the modified interlaced image,
        wherein an extent of the continuum of blank pixels is determined based on a
resolution limit of the printing technique.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
!
"

               <removed-apn> <removed-date>
! %&' ' ' '# (

