                                            Abstract
         This invention provides process for forming a binder slurry, which process
comprises:
A)      mixing halogenated graphene nanoplatelets and one or more polar solvents to form
         a nanoplatelet slurry, and combining the nanoplatelet slurry and one or more
        binders to form a binder slurry; or
B)       combining i) a nanoplatelet slurry comprising halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
         in a polar solvent with ii) one or more binders to form a binder slurry.
The halogenated graphene nanoplatelets comprise graphene layers and are characterized
by having, except for the carbon atoms forming the perimeters of the graphene layers of
the nanoplatelets, (a) graphene layers that are free from any element or component other
        2
than sp carbon, and (b) substantially defect-free graphene layers, wherein the total content
of halogen in the nanoplatelets is about 5 wt% or less calculated as bromine and based on
the total weight of the nanoplatelets.

     ELECTRODE SLURRIES CONTAINING HALOGENATED GRAPHENE
           NANOPLATELETS, AND PRODUCTION AND USES THEREOF
                                  TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]    This invention relates to electrode slurries formed with halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets, and to applications for electrode slurries containing halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets.
                                     BACKGROUND
[0002]    Graphene nanoplatelets are nanoparticles consisting of layers of graphene that
have a platelet shape. Graphene nanoplatelets are believed to be a desirable alternative to
carbon nanotubes for use in similar applications.
[0003]    For lithium ion batteries, in current electrode production processes, the active
material and conductive aid are typically added in dry powdered form into a binder
containing solution.    Graphene nanoplatelets, including chemically modified graphene
nanoplatelets, are desired components for electrodes.    Due to their small size, graphene
nanoplatelets do not disperse well in solvents, creating challenges in their handling and in
application to electrodes.
[0004]    Improved methods for application of active materials and conductive aids during
electrode production processes are desired.       Also desired are improved methods for
application of graphene nanoplatelets during electrode production processes.
                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]    This invention provides binder slurries in polar solvents containing halogenated
graphene nanoplatelets and a binder. In these binder slurries, the halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets are well dispersed.    For example, a binder slurry containing brominated
graphene nanoplatelets in N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone with 1.0 wt% of a binder, PVDF, is
stable for more than 2 months.
[0006]    This invention also provides electrode slurries in polar solvents containing
halogenated graphene nanoplatelets, active material, and a binder. These electrode slurries
provide several advantages.     Both the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets and active
material are uniformly dispersed in the electrode slurries formed in the practice of this
invention than in conventionally-prepared electrode slurries. The electrode slurries of the

invention have been observed to remain stable (no separation or settling) during the
electrode preparation process.
[0007]    Electrodes formed with electrode slurries of the invention have improved
conductivity as compared to conventionally-prepared electrode slurries.         This indicates
that smaller amounts of conductive aids are needed to achieve a similar conductivity. The
smaller amounts of conductive aids allows for a greater amount of active material in the
electrode, and leads to a higher energy density of the electrode.         The viscosity of an
electrode slurry is usually less than the viscosity of conventionally-prepared electrode
slurries, which allows the electrode slurry to contain a higher amount of solids. A higher
amount of solids means that there is less solvent, which is less solvent to remove at the
end of electrode preparation. The higher solid content in the electrode slurry allows for
higher production rates, higher output, and/or smaller equipment.              The improved
conductivity of an electrode prepared with an electrode slurry of this invention permits
better battery performance.
[0008]    An embodiment of this invention provides processes for forming binder slurries
containing halogenated graphene nanoplatelets that are characterized by having, except for
the carbon atoms forming the perimeters of the graphene layers of the nanoplatelets, (a)
graphene layers that are free from any element or component other than sp 2 carbon, and (b)
substantially defect-free graphene layers; the total content of halogen in the nanoplatelets
is about 5 wt% or less calculated as bromine and based on the total weight of the
nanoplatelets.
[0009]    Another embodiment of this invention provides processes for forming electrode
slurries containing halogenated graphene nanoplatelets. Additional embodiments include
electrode slurries and processes of using the electrode slurries in electrode production.
[0010]    The halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
that have chemically-bound halogen at the perimeters of the graphene layers of the
nanoplatelets.   In a preferred embodiment, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are
brominated graphene nanoplatelets that have chemically-bound bromine at the perimeters
of the graphene layers of the nanoplatelets.
[0011]    The halogenated graphene nanoplatelets also have high purity and little or no
detectable chemically-bound oxygen impurities.           Thus, the halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets used in this invention qualify for the description or classification of
"pristine".   In addition, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets of this invention are
virtually free from any structural defects. This can be attributed at least in part to the
pronounced uniformity and structural integrity of the sp 2 graphene layers of the
                                              2

halogenated graphene nanoplatelets of this invention.         Among additional advantageous
features of these nanoplatelets are superior electrical conductivity and superior physical
properties    as  compared     to   commercially    available   halogen-containing    graphene
nanoplatelets.
[0012]    Of the     halogenated     graphene   nanoplatelets,   preferred   nanoplatelets  are
brominated graphene nanoplatelets, i.e., nanoplatelets which have been formed using
elemental bromine (Br 2) as the halogen source.           Two-layered brominated graphene
nanoplatelets are more preferred.
[0013]    Synthesis    processes   for the    production   of these     halogenated   graphene
nanoplatelets are described in PCT Publication WO 2017/004363.            The Examples below
also describe a method for making halogenated graphene platelets that are used in the
practice of this invention.
[0014]    These and other embodiments and features of this invention will be still further
apparent from the ensuing description, drawings, and appended claims.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015]    Fig. 1A is a microscope picture of a binder slurry of the invention containing 0.9
wt% brominated graphene nanoplatelets and 1 wt% PVDF in N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone
(NMP) after storage at room temperature for 2 months.
[0016]    Fig. 1B is a microscope picture of a binder slurry of the invention containing 0.9
wt% brominated graphene nanoplatelets and 3 wt% PVDF in NMP after processing for 15
minutes in a homogenizer.
[0017]    Fig. 2 is a graph of through-plane conductivity measurements for electrodes
made with differing amounts of carbon black and/or brominated graphene nanoplatelets.
[0018]    Fig. 3 is a graph of in-plane conductivity measurements for electrodes made with
differing amounts of carbon black and/or brominated graphene nanoplatelets.
            FURTHER DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0019]    In the practice of this invention, the nanoplatelet slurry comprises a polar solvent
and halogenated graphene nanoplatelets. More than one polar solvent can be used. More
than one type of halogenated graphene nanoplatelets can be used (e.g., brominated
graphene nanoplatelets and fluorinated graphene nanoplatelets).         In some embodiments,
the nanoplatelet slurry consists of the polar solvent and the halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets.
                                                3

[0020]    The binder slurries in the practice of this invention are formed from a
nanoplatelet slurry and a binder, and comprise a polar solvent, halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets, and a binder. More than one binder can be used. In some embodiments, the
binder slurry consists of the polar solvent, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets, and the
binder.   When forming a binder slurry in the practice of this invention, the binder is
sometimes added in portions rather than all at once.
[0021]    When combining the binder and the nanoplatelet slurry to form the binder slurries
of this invention, high-speed mixing equipment is sometimes used.            Such high-speed
mixing equipment includes overhead mixers (stirrers) and homogenizers.             Speeds for
overhead mixers generally reach about 2000 rpm; for homogenizers, speeds typically
range from about 500 rpm to about 35,000 rpm, depending on the particular device.
[0022]    The binder slurry typically contains the binder in a concentration of about 0.1
wt% or more, preferably about 0.1 wt% to about 15 wt%, more preferably about 0.2 wt%
to about 5 wt%. The halogenated graphene nanoplatelets have a concentration of about
0.1 wt% or more, preferably about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt%, more preferably about 0.2
wt% to about 5 wt%, still more preferably about 0.2 wt% to about 1.0 wt% in the binder
slurry.
[0023]    Electrode slurries in the practice of this invention are formed from a binder slurry
and an active material, and comprise a polar solvent, halogenated graphene nanoplatelets,
a binder, and the active material. More than one type of active material can be used. In
some embodiments, the electrode slurry consists of the polar solvent, the halogenated
graphene nanoplatelets, the binder, and the active material.
[0024]    When forming the electrode slurry, more binder is generally added. This means
that the amount of binder in the binder slurry is usually less than the amount desired in an
electrode slurry. Typically the amount of binder is in a binder slurry is about 15% to about
60% of the total amount of binder in the electrode slurry. For example, a binder slurry
may contain about 0.5 wt% binder, and the electrode slurry formed therefrom may contain
about 3.0 wt% binder.
[0025]    Processes for forming a binder slurry and/or an electrode slurry can be carried out
at ambient temperatures and pressures. Exclusion of oxygen and/or water is may not be
necessary in these processes, depending on the polar solvent and binder chosen.           The
nanoplatelet slurry can be formed by any convenient means of combining (mixing) a solid
and a liquid.    Similarly, the binder slurry can be formed by any convenient means of
combining (mixing) a solid and a slurry. While the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
are suspended in the solvent in the nanoplatelet slurry, the binder dissolves. The electrode
                                                4

slurry is formed by any convenient means of combining (mixing) a solid and a slurry. The
active material, like the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets, is normally suspended in the
electrode slurry.
[0026]    Conductive aids (typically a form of carbon) can be added during formation of
the binder slurry, after the binder slurry has been formed, during the formation of the
electrode slurry, and/or after formation of the electrode slurry. Preferably, the conductive
aid is added after formation of the binder slurry.
[0027]    If desired, the binder slurry and/or electrode slurry may be formed by combining
the slurry with the additive in admixture with a solvent. For example, a binder slurry can
be formed by mixing the binder in a polar solvent with the nanoplatelet slurry. Similarly,
the electrode slurry can be formed by mixing the active material in a polar solvent with the
binder slurry.
[0028]    In the processes of this invention, the polar solvent can be protic or aprotic,
depending on its use and the other substances present in the electrode slurry, and is
generally a polar organic solvent and/or, in some instances, water. Suitable polar solvents
include polar aprotic solvents such as acetonitrile, acetone, tetrahydrofuran, sulfolane
(tetramethylene         sulfone),     N,N-dimethylformamide,           N,N-dimethylacetamide,
dimethylsulfone,       dimethylsulfoxide,     1,3-dimethyl-2-imidazolidinone,      N-methyl-2
pyrrolidinone, or benzonitrile; and polar protic solvents such as water, methanol, ethanol,
1-propanol,    2-propanol,    1-butanol,   1-methyl-1-propanol,    2-methyl-1-propanol,    tert
butanol, or ethylene glycol. Mixtures of two or more polar solvents can be used.
[0029]    Suitable binders include styrene butadiene rubber and polyvinylidene fluoride
(PVDF; also called polyvinylidene difluoride).
[0030]    In the practice of this invention, suitable anode active materials include, but are
not limited to, carbon, silicon, titanium dioxide, and lithium titanium oxide.         Suitable
forms of carbon for the active material in an anode include natural graphite, purified
natural graphite, synthetic graphite, hard carbon, soft carbon, carbon black, powdered
activated carbon, and the like.
[0031]    Suitable cathode active materials in the practice of this invention include, but are
not limited to, lithium salts such as lithium phosphate; lithium transition metal salts,
including lithium nickel cobalt aluminium oxide, lithium nickel cobalt oxide, lithium iron
phosphate, lithium manganese oxide, lithium nickel manganese spinel, lithium nickel
manganese cobalt spinel, and lithium cobalt oxide.
[0032]    By "pristine or nearly pristine" is meant that either there is no observable damage,
or if there is any damage to the graphene layers as shown by either high resolution
                                                5

transmission electron microscopy (TEM) or by atomic force microscopy (AFM), such
damage is negligible, i.e., it is so insignificant as to be unworthy of consideration. For
example, any such damage has no observable detrimental effect on the nanoelectronic
properties of the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets.        Generally, any damage in the
halogenated graphene nanoplatelets originates from damage present in the graphite from
which the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are made; any damage and/or impurities
from the graphite starting material remains in the product halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets.
[0033]    The term    "halogenated"     in halogenated    graphene nanoplatelets,    as used
throughout this document, refers to graphene nanoplatelets in which Br 2 , F 2 , ICl, IBr, IF,
or any combinations thereof were used in preparing the graphene nanoplatelets.
[0034]    Brominated     graphene    nanoplatelets   are  preferred  halogenated    graphene
nanoplatelets.
[0035]    The halogenated graphene nanoplatelets comprise graphene layers and are
characterized by having, except for the carbon atoms forming the perimeters of the
graphene layers of the nanoplatelets, (a) graphene layers that are free from any element or
component other than sp 2 carbon, and (b) substantially defect-free graphene layers. The
total content of halogen in the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets is about 5 wt% or less
calculated as bromine and based on the total weight of the halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets.
[0036]    The phrase "free from any element or component other than sp 2 carbon" indicates
that the impurities are usually at or below the parts per million (ppm; wt/wt) level, based
on the total weight of the nanoplatelets. Typically, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
have about 3 wt% or less oxygen, preferably about 1 wt% or less oxygen; the oxygen
observed in the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets is believed to be an impurity
originating in the graphite starting material.
[0037]    The phrase "substantially defect-free" indicates that the graphene layers of the
halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are substantially free of structural defects including
holes, five-membered rings, and seven-membered rings.
[0038]    In some embodiments,         the halogenated    graphene nanoplatelets    comprise
chemically-bound halogen at the perimeters of the graphene layers of the nanoplatelets.
The halogen atoms that can be chemically-bound at the perimeters of the graphene layers
of the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets include fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, and
mixtures thereof; bromine is preferred.
                                               6

 [0039]   While the total amount of halogen present in the nanoplatelets of this invention
may vary, the total content of halogen in the nanoplatelets is about 5 wt% or less, and is
preferably in the range equivalent to a total bromine content (or calculated as bromine) in
the range of about 0.001 wt% to about 5 wt% bromine, based on the total weight of the
nanoplatelets, which is determined by the amounts and atomic weights of the particular
diatomic halogen composition being used. More preferably, the total content of halogen in
the nanoplatelets is in the range equivalent to a total bromine content in the range of about
0.01 wt% to about 4 wt% bromine based on the total weight of the nanoplatelets. In some
embodiments, the total content of halogen in the nanoplatelets is preferably in the range
equivalent to a total bromine content in the range of about 0.001 wt% to about 5 wt%
bromine, more preferably about 0.01 wt% to about 4 wt% bromine, based on the total
weight of the nanoplatelets.
 [0040]   As used throughout this document, the phrases "as bromine," "reported as
bromine," "calculated as bromine," and analogous phrases for the halogens refer to the
amount of halogen, where the numerical value is calculated for bromine, unless otherwise
noted. For example, elemental fluorine may be used, but the amount of halogen in the
halogenated graphene nanoplatelets is stated as the value for bromine.
 [0041]   In a preferred embodiment of this invention, the halogenated,            especially
brominated, nanoplatelets comprise few-layered graphenes. By "few-layered graphenes"
is meant that a grouping of a stacked layered graphene nanoplatelet contains up to about
 10 graphene layers, preferably about 1 to about 5 graphene layers.         Such few-layered
graphenes typically have superior properties as compared to corresponding nanoplatelets
composed of larger numbers of layers of graphene. Halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
that comprise two-layered graphenes are particularly preferred, especially two-layered
brominated graphene nanoplatelets.
[0042]    Particularly preferred   halogenated    graphene nanoplatelets     are brominated
graphene nanoplatelets which comprise few-layered or two-layered brominated graphene
nanoplatelets in which the distance between the layers is about 0.335 nm as determined by
high resolution transmission electron microscopy           (TEM).     Brominated graphene
nanoplatelets wherein said nanoplatelets comprise two-layered graphene in which the
thickness of said two-layered is about 0.7 nm as determined by Atomic Force Microscopy
(AFM) are also particularly preferred.
[0043]    Moreover, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets of this invention often have a
lateral size as determined by Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) in the range of about 0.1 to
about 50 microns, preferably about 0.5 to about 50 microns, more preferably about 1 to
                                               7

about 40 microns. In some applications, a lateral size of about 1 to about 20 microns is
preferred for the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets. Lateral size is the linear size of the
halogenated graphene nanoplatelets in a direction perpendicular to the layer thickness.
[0044]    Another advantageous      feature of the halogenated       graphene nanoplatelets,
especially the brominated graphene nanoplatelets, is superior thermal stability.          In
particular, brominated graphene nanoplatelets exhibit a negligible weight loss when
subjected to thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) at temperatures up to about 800'C under
an inert atmosphere.      At 900'C under an inert atmosphere, the TGA weight loss of
brominated graphene nanoplatelets is typically about 4 wt% or less, usually about 3 wt%
or less. Further, the TGA weight loss temperatures of brominated graphene nanoplatelets
under an inert atmosphere have been observed to decrease as the amount of bromine
increases.    The inert atmosphere can be e.g., helium, argon, or nitrogen; nitrogen is
typically used and is preferred.
[0045]    Preferred   halogenated    graphene     nanoplatelets are    brominated  graphene
nanoplatelets comprising two-layered graphene nanoplatelets, while also having a
negligible    weight   loss when subjected      to thermogravimetric     analysis (TGA)   at
temperatures up to about 800'C under an anhydrous nitrogen atmosphere. Preferably, the
TGA weight loss of the brominated graphene nanoplatelets is about 4 wt% or less at
900'C under an inert atmosphere, more preferably about 3 wt% or less at 900'C under an
inert atmosphere.
[0046]    At the end of their formation process, halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are
often subjected to particle size reduction techniques, which include grinding, dry or wet
milling, high shear mixing, and ultrasonication. Solvents for ultrasonication are typically
one or more polar solvents. Suitable solvents for the ultrasonication are the polar solvents
described above.        When the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are subjected to
ultrasonication, the mixture, which contains halogenated graphene nanoplatelets in a polar
solvent, can be used as a nanoplatelet slurry in the processes of this invention.
[0047]    It is not necessary to handle the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets in a water
free and/or oxygen-free environment.
 [0048]   The halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are capable of use in energy storage
applications from small scale (e.g., lithium ion battery electrode applications, including
batteries for phones and automobiles) to bulk scale (mass energy storage, e.g., for power
plants), or energy storage devices such as batteries and accumulators. More specifically,
the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets may be used in electrodes in a variety of energy
                                               8

storage applications, including magnesium ion batteries, sodium ion batteries, lithium
sulfur batteries, lithium air batteries, and lithium ion capacitor devices.
[0049]    The electrode slurry can be used to form a coating on one or more surfaces of an
electrode material. An electrode formed with an electrode slurry of this invention can be a
component of an energy storage device. In some embodiments of this invention, energy
storage devices comprising an electrode containing halogenated graphene nanoplatelets,
preferably brominated graphene nanoplatelets, are provided.          The electrode can be an
anode or cathode.       In some embodiments, the electrode may be a silicon-containing
electrode, especially a silicon-containing anode. The electrode containing the halogenated
graphene nanoplatelets can be present in a lithium ion battery.
[0050]    The electrode      slurry contains     halogenated graphene    nanoplatelets.    The
halogenated graphene nanoplatelets have a concentration of about 0.1 wt% or more,
preferably about 0.1 wt% to about 10 wt%, more preferably about 0.2 wt% to about 5
wt%, still more preferably about 0.2 wt% to about 1.0 wt% in the electrode slurry. More
preferably, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are brominated graphene nanoplatelets.
[0051]    In some embodiments, the active material is in an amount such that after drying,
the active material in an anode is typically about 90 wt% to about 99 wt%, more often
about 97 wt% to about 98 wt%; in a cathode, the active material is usually about 90 wt%
to about 97 wt%, more often about 91 wt% to about 96 wt%.
[0052]    In the electrode slurry, the binder has a concentration of about 0.1 wt% or more,
preferably about 0.1 wt% to about 15 wt%, more preferably about 0.2 wt% to about 8
wt%.
[0053]    Preferably, the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets are brominated graphene
nanoplatelets. Also preferred is an amount of about 0.1 wt% or more halogenated
graphene nanoplatelets in the electrode. The electrode also comprises a binder. Typical
binders include styrene butadiene rubber and polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF; also called
polyvinylidene     difluoride).     In preferred    embodiments    for these electrodes,    the
improvement       comprises     having    halogenated    graphene   nanoplatelets,  preferably
brominated graphene nanoplatelets, take the place of about 10 wt% to about 100 wt% of
the conductive aid(s), or the improvement comprises having halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets, preferably brominated graphene nanoplatelets, take the place of about 1
wt% or more of the carbon, silicon, and/or one more silicon oxides.
[0054]    The term "carbon" in connection with energy storage devices, as used throughout
this document, refers to natural graphite, purified natural graphite, synthetic graphite, hard
carbon, soft carbon, carbon black, or any combinations thereof.
                                                  9

 [0055]   In some energy storage devices, brominated graphene nanoplatelets may act as a
current collector for the electrode, while in other energy storage devices, brominated
graphene nanoplatelets may act as a conductive aid or an active material in the electrode.
 [0056]   The following Examples are presented for purposes of illustration, and are not
intended to impose limitations on the scope of this invention.
Sample Characterization and Performance Testing
 [0057]   In the experimental work descried in Examples 1-3, the samples used were
analyzed by the following methods in order to evaluate their physical characterization and
performance.
 [0058]   Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) - The AFM instrument used was a Dimension
Icon* AFM made by Bruker Corporation (Billerica, MA) in ScanAsyst* mode with a
ScanAsyst* probe. Its high-resolution camera and X-Y positioning permit fast, efficient
sample navigation. The samples were dispersed in dimethylformamide (DMF) and coated
on mica, and then analyzed under AFM.
[0059]    High Resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) - A JEM-2100 LaB6
TEM (JEOL USA, Peabody, MA) was used.              Operation parameters include a 200 kV
accelerating voltage for imaging and an Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy (EDS) for TEM
(Oxford Instruments plc, United Kingdom) for elemental analysis. The samples were first
dispersed in dimethylformamide (DMF) and coated on copper grid.
[0060]    Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM)           - Electron imaging and elemental
microanalysis were done in a JSM 6300FXV (JEOL USA, Peabody, MA) scanning
electron microscope at 5 to 25 keV. The specimens were coated with a thin layer of gold
or carbon prior to examination. Energy dispersive X-ray spectra were obtained using an
Inca* system (Oxford Instruments plc, United Kingdom) equipped with               an energy
dispersive x-ray spectrometer with a Si(Li) detector with a 5-terminal device incorporating
a low noise junction field effect transistor and a charge restoration mechanism, referred to
as a PentaFET Si(Li) detector (manufacturer unclear).       Semiquantitative concentrations
were calculated from the observed intensities. The accuracy of the values is estimated to
be plus or minus twenty percent. All values are in weight percent.
[0061]    Powder X-ray Diffractometer (for XRD) - The sample holder used contained a
silicon zero background       plate set in a mount that could be           isolated with    a
polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) dome sealed with an O-ring. The plate was coated with
a very thin film of high vacuum grease (Apiezon*; M&I Materials Ltd., United Kingdom)
to improve adhesion, and the powdered sample was quickly spread over the plate and
                                              10

flattened with a glass slide.      The dome and O-ring were installed, and the assembly
transferred to the diffractometer. The diffraction data was acquired with Cu ka radiation
on a D8 Advance (Bruker Corp., Billerica, MA) equipped with an energy-dispersive one
dimensional detector (LynxEye XE detector; Bruker Corp., Billerica, MA). Repetitive
scans were taken over the 100 to 1400 20 angular range with a 0.04' step size and a
counting time of 0.5 second per step. Total time per scan was 8.7 minutes. Peak profile
analysis was performed with Jade 9.0 software (Materials Data Incorporated, Livermore,
CA).
 [0062]   TGA - The TGA analysis was conducted using a simultaneous DSC/TGA
Analyzer with autosampler and silicon carbide furnace (model no. STA 449 F3, Netzsch
Gerdtebau GmbH, Germany), which was located inside a glove box. The samples were
pre-dried at 120'C for 20 minutes, then heated up to 850'C at 10 'C/min under a flow of
nitrogen or air. The remaining weight together with the temperature was recorded.
 [0063]   Examples 1-3 demonstrate syntheses of halogenated graphene nanoplatelets, and
are reproduced from PCT Publication WO 2017/004363.
                                          EXAMPLE 1
[0064]    Several individual 2-gram samples of natural graphite, with 35% of the particles
larger than 300 microns, and 85% of the particles larger than 180 microns (Asbury
Carbons, Asbury, New Jersey), were contacted with 0.2 mL, 0.3 mL, 0.5 mL, 1 mL, 1.5
mL or 3 mL of liquid bromine (Br 2) for 24 hours at room temperature. After 24 hours, the
color in vials from the bromine vapor was darker as the bromine vapor concentration in
the vials increased. The resultant bromine-intercalated materials were analyzed by X-ray
powder diffraction (XRD). Once the bromine vapor reached saturation, as shown by the
presence of liquid bromine, "stage-2" bromine-intercalated graphite was formed. In the
intercalation step of all the rest of the these Examples, except when specifically mentioned
otherwise, saturated bromine vapor pressure was maintained during the intercalation step
in order to obtain stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.
                                          EXAMPLE 2
 [0065]   Natural graphite (4 g), of the same particle size as used in Example 1, was
contacted with 4 g of liquid bromine for 64 hours at room temperature. Excess liquid
bromine was present to ensure the formation of stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite. All
of the stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite was continuously fed during a period of 45
minutes into a drop tube reactor (5 cm diameter) that had been pre-purged with nitrogen,
                                                11

while the reactor was maintained at 900'C. Bromine vapor pressure was maintained in the
drop reactor for 60 minutes while the temperature of the reactor was kept at 900'C. The
solid material in the reactor was cooled with a nitrogen flow.
[0066]    Some of the cooled solid material (3 g) was contacted with liquid bromine (4 g)
for 16 hours at room temperature with excess liquid bromine present to ensure the
formation of stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.      Then all of this stage-2 bromine
intercalated graphite was continuously fed within 30 minutes into a drop tube reactor (5
cm diameter) that had been pre-purged with nitrogen.        The reactor was maintained at
900'C during the feeding of the stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.       Bromine vapor
pressure was maintained in the drop reactor for 60 minutes while the temperature of the
reactor was kept at 900'C. The solid material in the reactor was cooled with a nitrogen
flow.
[0067]    Some of the cooled solid material just obtained (2 g) was contacted with liquid
bromine (2.5 g) for 16 hours at room temperature with excess liquid bromine present to
ensure the formation of stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.      Then all of this stage-2
bromine-intercalated graphite was continuously fed within 20 minutes into a drop tube
reactor (5 cm diameter) that had been pre-purged with nitrogen.           The reactor was
maintained at 900'C during the feeding of the stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.
Bromine vapor pressure was maintained in the drop reactor for 60 minutes while the
temperature of the reactor was kept at 900'C. The solid material in the reactor was cooled
with a nitrogen flow.
[0068]    Part   of   the   cooled  solid  material   just   obtained   was   dispersed    in
dimethylformamide (DMF) and subjected to ultrasonication for 6 minutes, and then
analyzed with TEM and AFM.          The TEM results show that the brominated graphene
nanoplatelets comprised two-layered graphene, and the TEM analysis also showed that the
distance (d002) between two graphene layers was about 0.335 nm, which means these
graphene layers were damage-free, containing only sp 2 carbon in the graphene layers. The
AFM analysis confirmed that the sample comprised 2-layered graphene, and also showed
that the thickness of the 2-layered graphene was about 0.7 nm, which confirms that the
graphene layers are damage-free and there are only sp 2 carbons within the graphene layers.
[0069]    An EDS analysis revealed that there was 0.9 wt% bromine in the sample, as well
as 97.7 wt% carbon, 1.3 wt% oxygen, and 0.1 wt% chlorine.
[0070]    The   sample    was   found   to  comprise   two-layered    brominated   graphene
nanoplatelets having at least a lateral size of greater than 4 microns; the sample also
                                              12

contained 4-layered brominated graphene nanoplatelets with the lateral size of about 9
microns.
 [0071]   Some of the cooled solid material from the third set of intercalation and
exfoliation steps, rather than being subjected to ultrasonication, was subjected to TGA
under nitrogen. The weight loss of the sample up to 800'C was about < 1%. Some of the
graphite starting material was also analyzed by TGA. The weight loss from graphite was
also negligible up to 800'C in N 2 . Thus it was concluded that the negligible weight loss in
N 2 up to 800'C is another characteristic feature of the brominated graphene nanoplatelets
of this invention.
[0072]    Some of the cooled solid material from the third set of intercalation and
exfoliation steps, rather than being subjected to ultrasonication, was subjected to TGA
under air. The weight loss of the sample started at about 700'C. Some of the graphite
starting material was also analyzed by TGA.        The weight loss from graphite was also
observed to start at about 700'C in air.
[0073]    Another portion of the cooled solid material from the third set of intercalation and
exfoliation steps (0.2 grams) and graphite (0.2 g) were mixed with separate 250 mL
amounts of water. The cooled solid material (brominated exfoliated graphite) dispersed
easily in water, while the graphite floated on top of the water. These results indicate that
the brominated graphene nanoplatelets of this invention possess enhanced dispersibility in
water.
                                       EXAMPLE 3
[0074]    Natural graphite (4 g), of the same particle size as used in Example 1, was
contacted with 6 g of liquid bromine for 48 hours at room temperature.           Excess liquid
bromine was present to ensure the formation of stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite. All
of the stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite was continuously fed during a period of 60
minutes into a drop tube reactor (5 cm diameter) that had been pre-purged with nitrogen,
while the reactor was maintained at 900'C. Bromine vapor pressure was maintained in the
drop reactor for 60 minutes while the temperature of the reactor was kept at 900'C. The
solid material in the reactor was cooled with a nitrogen flow.
[0075]    Some of the cooled solid material (3 g) was contacted with liquid bromine (4.5 g)
for 16 hours at room temperature with excess liquid bromine present to ensure the
formation of stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.      Then all of this stage-2 bromine
intercalated graphite was continuously fed during 30 minutes into a drop tube reactor (5
cm diameter) that had been pre-purged with nitrogen.        The reactor was maintained at
                                              13

900'C during the feeding of the stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite. Bromine vapor
pressure was maintained in the drop reactor for 30 minutes while the temperature of the
reactor was kept at 900'C. The solid material in the reactor was cooled with a nitrogen
flow.
[0076]    Some of the cooled solid material just obtained (2 g) was contacted with liquid
bromine (3 g) for 24 hours at room temperature with excess liquid bromine present to
ensure the formation of stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.        Then all of this stage-2
bromine-intercalated graphite was continuously fed during 20 minutes into a drop tube
reactor (5 cm diameter) that had been pre-purged with nitrogen.               The reactor was
maintained at 900'C during the feeding of the stage-2 bromine-intercalated graphite.
Bromine vapor pressure was maintained in the drop reactor for 60 minutes while the
temperature of the reactor was kept at 900'C. The solid material in the reactor was cooled
with a nitrogen flow.
[0077]    Some of the cooled solid material from the third set of intercalation and
exfoliation steps was analyzed by a wet titration method for bromine content, and there
was 2.5 wt% of bromine in the sample.
[0078]    Part of the cooled solid material from the third set of intercalation and exfoliation
steps (1 g) was mixed with 50 mL of NMP, sonicated, and then filtered to obtain
brominated graphene nanoplatelets. The filter cake was vacuum dried at 130'C for 12
hours.
                                         EXAMPLE 4
[0079]    Fig. 1A is a microscope picture of a binder slurry of the invention containing 0.9
wt% brominated graphene nanoplatelets and 1 wt% PVDF in N-methyl-2-pyrrolidinone
(NMP) after storage at room temperature for 2 months.
[0080]    The dispersion shown in Fig. 1B, which is a binder slurry according to the
invention, was prepared by adding more PVDF (to 3 wt% total) to a portion of binder
slurry of Fig. 1A prior to its storage, and then processing for 15 minutes in a homogenizer
(IKA* Ultra-Turrax* T8 homogenizer; 5,000 to 25,000 rpm).
                                         EXAMPLE 5
[0081]    Conductivity measurements were made on several samples, and were performed
on dried electrode coatings. Coatings were formed from electrode slurries of the invention
containing 3 wt% PVDF, 1.5 wt% carbon black, brominated graphene nanoplatelets, and
active material (lithium nickel cobalt manganese oxide; NMC). The brominated graphene
                                               14

nanoplatelets were 0.5 wt% of the slurry in one run, and 1.0 wt% of the slurry in the other
run. The electrode slurry containing 0.5 wt% brominated graphene nanoplatelets had a
total solid content of 64 wt%, and a viscosity of 4300 mPa.
 [0082]   Comparative coatings were formed from electrode slurries containing binder (3
wt% PVDF), active material (NMC), and carbon black. The amount of carbon black was
different in each run: 1.0 wt%, 2.0 wt%, 3 wt%, and 4 wt%, respectively.                  The
comparative electrode slurry containing 1.0 wt% carbon black had a total solid content of
60 wt%, and a viscosity of 11,850 mPa.
 [0083]   Fig. 2 is a graph of through-plane conductivity measurements and Fig. 3 is a
graph of in -plane conductivity measurements. In Figs. 2 and 3, the line labeled A is for
the samples containing brominated graphene nanoplatelets; the amount on the x axis is the
combined weight of the carbon black and brominated graphene nanoplatelets in the
sample. Similarly, the line labeled B in Figs. 2 and 3 is for the comparative samples, and
the amount on the x axis is the amount of carbon black in the sample. These results show
that the through-plane conductivity and in-plane conductivity are improved when
brominated graphene nanoplatelets are present.
[0084]    Components referred to by chemical name or formula anywhere in the
specification or claims hereof, whether referred to in the singular or plural, are identified
as they exist prior to coming into contact with another substance referred to by chemical
name or chemical type (e.g., another component, a solvent, or etc.). It matters not what
chemical changes, transformations and/or reactions, if any, take place in the resulting
mixture or solution as such changes, transformations, and/or reactions are the natural
result of bringing the specified components together under the conditions called for
pursuant to this disclosure.    Thus the components are identified as ingredients to be
brought together in connection with performing a desired operation or in forming a desired
composition.     Also, even though the claims hereinafter may refer to substances,
components and/or ingredients in the present tense ("comprises", "is", etc.), the reference
is to the substance, component or ingredient as it existed at the time just before it was first
contacted, blended or mixed with one or more other substances, components and/or
ingredients in accordance with the present disclosure.          The fact that a substance,
component or ingredient may have lost its original identity through a chemical reaction or
transformation during the course of contacting, blending or mixing operations, if
conducted in accordance with this disclosure and with ordinary skill of a chemist, is thus
of no practical concern.
                                              15

[0085]    The invention may comprise, consist, or consist essentially of the materials
and/or procedures recited herein.
[0086]    As used herein, the term "about" modifying the quantity of an ingredient in the
compositions of the invention or employed in the methods of the invention refers to
variation in the numerical quantity that can occur, for example, through typical measuring
and liquid handling procedures used for making concentrates or use solutions in the real
world; through inadvertent error in these procedures; through differences in the
manufacture, source, or purity of the ingredients employed to make the compositions or
carry out the methods; and the like. The term "about" also encompasses amounts that
differ due to different equilibrium conditions for a composition resulting from a particular
initial mixture. Whether or not modified by the term "about", the claims include
equivalents to the quantities.
[0087]    Except as may be expressly otherwise indicated, the article "a" or "an" if and as
used herein is not intended to limit, and should not be construed as limiting, the
description or a claim to a single element to which the article refers. Rather, the article "a"
or "an" if and as used herein is intended to cover one or more such elements, unless the
text expressly indicates otherwise.
[0088]    This invention is susceptible to considerable variation in its practice. Therefore
the foregoing description is not intended to limit, and should not be construed as limiting,
the invention to the particular exemplifications presented hereinabove.
                                              16

THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A process for forming a binder slurry, which process comprises:
A)      mixing halogenated graphene nanoplatelets and one or more polar solvents to form
        a nanoplatelet slurry, and combining the nanoplatelet slurry and one or more
        binders to form a binder slurry; or
B)      combining i) a nanoplatelet slurry comprising halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
        in a polar solvent with ii) one or more binders to form a binder slurry;
wherein the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets comprise graphene layers and are
characterized by having, except for the carbon atoms forming the perimeters of the
graphene layers of the nanoplatelets, (a) graphene layers that are free from any element or
component other than sp2 carbon, and (b) substantially defect-free graphene layers,
wherein the total content of halogen in the nanoplatelets is about 5 wt% or less calculated
as bromine and based on the total weight of the nanoplatelets.
2.      A process as in Claim 1 further comprising combining the binder slurry and one or
more active materials to form an electrode slurry.
3.       A process as in Claim 1 or 2 wherein the binder is polyvinylidene fluoride.
4.       A process as in any of Claims 1-3 wherein the polar solvent is a polar aprotic
solvent.
5.       A process as in any of Claims 1-3 wherein the polar solvent is N-methyl-2
pyrrolidinone.
6.      A process as in any of Claims 1-5 wherein the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
have chemically-bound halogen at the perimeters of the graphene layers of the
nanoplatelets.
7.      A process as in any of Claims 1-5 wherein the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
are brominated graphene nanoplatelets that have chemically-bound bromine at the
perimeters of the graphene layers of the nanoplatelets.
8.      A process as in any of Claims 1-5 wherein the halogenated graphene nanoplatelets
are brominated graphene nanoplatelets.
                                              17

9.      A process as in Claim 8 wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets have a
total bromine content in the range of about 0.001 wt% to about 5 wt%, based on the total
weight of the nanoplatelets.
 10.    A process as in Claim 8 wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets comprise
few-layered graphenes and/or wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets comprise
two-layered graphenes.
 11.    A process as in Claim 8 or 9 wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets have a
distance between the layers of about 0.335 nm as determined by high resolution
transmission electron microscopy
 12.    A process as in Claim 8 or 11 wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets
comprise two-layered graphenes have a thickness of about 0.7 nm as determined by
atomic force microscopy.
 13.    A process as in Claim 8 or 9 wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets
exhibit a weight loss of about 4 wt% or less when subjected to thermogravimetric analysis
at 900'C under an inert atmosphere.
 14.    A process as in Claim 8 or 9 wherein the brominated graphene nanoplatelets have a
lateral size as determined by atomic force microscopy in the range of about 0.1 to about 50
microns.
 15.    A process as in any of Claims            1-14 wherein the halogenated graphene
nanoplatelets have no detectable chemically-bound oxygen impurities.
 16.    A binder slurry formed as in any of Claims 1 or 3-15.
 17.    An electrode slurry formed as in any of Claims 2-15.
 18.    A process as in Claim 1 further comprising coating one or more surfaces of an
electrode material with the electrode slurry.
 19.    A process as in Claim 18 further comprising placing an electrode formed therefrom
in an energy storage device.
20.     A coating formed as in Claim 18.
21.     An energy storage device formed as in Claim 19.
                                              18

22.     An energy storage device as in Claim 21 wherein said energy storage device is a
lithium ion battery.
23.     An energy storage device as in Claim 21 wherein said electrode is a silicon
electrode.
24.     An energy storage device as in Claim 21 wherein said energy storage device
comprises a solid state electrolyte.
25.     An energy storage device as in any of Claims 21-22 wherein said halogenated
graphene nanoplatelets are brominated graphene nanoplatelets.
                                           19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
