                                           ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods for the treatment or prevention of depression, and related
pharmaceutical compositions. Of particular interest are pharmaceutical compositions comprising
cyclobenzaprine, alone, or in combination with an antidepressant drug.

           METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR TREATING DEPRESSION USING
                                         CYCLOBENZAPRINE
                         CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  5 This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. <removed-apn>, filed on
    31 August 2016, which is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2012225548, filed on
    6 March 2012, and is related to International Patent Application No. PCT/US2012/027926,
    filed on 6 March 2012 and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application
    No. 61/449,838, filed on 7 March 2011; each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
 LO entirety.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
    The present invention relates to methods for the treatment or prevention of depression, and
    related pharmaceutical compositions. Of particular interest are pharmaceutical compositions
 L5 comprising cyclobenzaprine, alone, or in combination with an antidepressant drug.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    Cyclobenzaprine, or 3-(5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5-ylidene)-N,N-dimethyl-l-propanamine,
    was first approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 1977 for the treatment of acute
 !0 muscle spasms of local origin. (Katz, W., et al., Cyclobenzaprine in the Treatment of Acute
    Muscle Spasm: Review of a Decade of ClinicalExperience, Clinical Therapeutics 10:216-228
    (1988)). Cyclobenzaprine has also been studied in the treatment of fibromyalgia. In a study of
    120 fibromyalgia patients, those receiving cyclobenzaprine (10 to 40 mg) over a 12-week
    period had significantly improved quality of sleep and pain score. There was also a reduction in
25  the total number of tender points and muscle tightness.
    Furthermore, the utility of a very low dose cyclobenzaprine as an agent for improving the
    quality of sleep, as a sleep deepener, or for treating sleep disturbances has been investigated.
    The very low dosage regimen was viewed as particularly useful in treating sleep disturbances
    caused by, exacerbated by or associated with fibromyalgia syndrome, prolonged fatigue,
30  chronic fatigue, chronic fatigue syndrome, a sleep disorder, a psychogenic pain disorder,
                                                       1

chronic pain syndrome (type II), the administration of a drug, autoimmune disease, stress or
anxiety or for treating an illness caused by or exacerbated
                                    [Text continues on page 2.]
                                                 1a

    by sleep disturbances, and symptoms of such illness and generalized anxiety disorder. See US
    Patent Nos. 6,395,788 and 6,358,944, herein incorporated by reference.
    It is important to develop new methods and pharmaceutical compositions that ameliorate
    depression with minimal side effects.
  5                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    In one aspect the invention is a method for treating depression comprising administering to a
    human in need of such treatment a pharmaceutical composition comprising cyclobenzaprine in
    a therapeutically effective amount and a therapeutically effective carrier, wherein such
    treatment ameliorates or eliminates the depression. Typically, the cyclobenzaprine is
 [0 administered at bedtime. Generally, the dose is less than 5 mg/day. An antidepressant drug may
    be administered sequentially or concurrently. In a second aspect the invention is a
    pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of cyclobenzaprine
    in combination with an antidepressant drug.
    A definition of the specific embodiment of the invention claimed herein follows.
 [5 In a broad format, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for use in treating
    depression comprising a therapeutically effective amount of cyclobenzaprine in combination
    with an antidepressant drug.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    We have discovered that cyclobenzaprine treatment was associated with a significant
 !0 improvement in the HAD Depression subscore in fibromyalgia patients. The Hospital Anxiety
    and Depression Scale (HAD) is a widely used patient self-rated scale with 14 questions (7
    "anxiety" and 7 "depression" questions) that ranges from 0-42. Therefore, we believe that a low
    dose cyclobenzaprine will be effective for treating depression, including major depressive
    disorder. Thus, one aspect the invention is a method for treating depression, including major
25  depressive disorder, using a very low dose of cyclobenzaprine.
                                                     2

    WO 20121122193                                                           PCT/US2012/027926
   "Cyclobenzaprine" includes cyclobenzaprine or a metabolite thereof, prodrug of
   cyclobenzaprine or a metabolite thereof. Metabolites of cyclobenzaprine useful
   according to the methods of this invention are metabolites that have substantially the
   same activity or better as cyclobenzaprine in alleviating depression symptoms.
 5 Cyclobenzaprine metabolites that may be useful according to this invention include CBP
   10,1 1-trans-dihydriol, N-desmethyl-2-hydroxycyclobenzaprine, 3
   hydroxycyclobenzaprine, N-desmethylcyclobezaprine cyclobenzaprine N-oxide or a
   chiral isomer of these metabolites. A prodrug of cyclobenzaprine is a derivative of
   cyclobenzaprine that is metabolized in vivo into the active agent. Prodrugs useful
10 according to this invention are those that have substantially the same activity or better
   than cyclobenzaprine in treating or preventing the symptoms of depression. Methods for
   making prodrugs are readily known in the art (e.g., Balant, L. P., Prodrugsforthe
   Improvement of Drug Absorption Via Different Roules of Administration,Eur. J. Drug
   Metab. Pharmacokinet. 15:143-153 (1990); and Bundgaard, H., Novel Chemical
15 Approaches in ProdrugDesign, Drugs of the Future 16:443-458 (1991); incorporated by
   reference herein).
   As used herein, a "therapeutically effective amount" of cyclobenzaprine for the purposes
   of this invention refers to the amount of the compound that prevents or alleviates or
20 eliminates depression. A physician can readily determine when symptoms are prevented
   or alleviated or eliminated, for example through clinical observation of a subject, or
   through reporting of symptoms by the subject during the course of treatment. One skilled
   in the art can readily determine an effective amount of a cyclobenzaprine to be
   administered, by taking into account factors such as the size, weight, age and sex of the
25 subject, the extent of disease penetration or persistence and severity of symptoms, and the
   route of administration. Generally, a therapeutically effective amount of cyclobenzaprine
   administered to a subject is between 0.1mg to about 50 mg/day, between 0.5 to about 10
   mg/day, between I mg and 5mg/day, or between I and 4 mg/day. Higher or lower doses
   are also contemplated.
30
                                                  3

     WO 20121122193                                                         PCT/US2012/027926
   In one embodiment the cyclobenzaprine is administered at a very low dose to minimize
   side effects observed at higher doses. The low doses include doses of less than 5 mg/day
   or less than 2.5 mg/day. Even lower doses are also contemplated. Generally,
   cyclobenzaprine therapy can be carried out indefinitely to alleviate the symptoms of
 5 interest and frequency of dosage may be changed to be taken as needed. The period of
   treatment should be carried out for as long as necessary to alleviate depression symptoms
   and the cyclobenzaprine administered at night-time and at an appropriate dose. For
   example, the doses may be I mg/day, 2 mg/day, 3 mg/day or 4 mg/day.
10 In another embodiment of the invention, cyclobenzaprine is administered in combination
   with a drug which alleviates the symptoms of depression. The drugs may be
   administered sequentially or concurrently with the cyclobenzaprine. The drugs include
   an alpha-I -adrenergic receptor antagonist, a beta-adrenergic antagonist, an
   anticonvulsant, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or a serotonin-norepinephrine
15 reuptake inhibitor. Exemplary selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or a serotonin
   norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor include, but are not limited to, buproprion (at a dose
   between about 105 mg and 450 mg/day), citalopram (at a dose between about 10 mg and
   40 mg/day), desvenlafaxine (at a dose between about 50 mg and 400 mg/day), duloxetine
   (at a dose between about 40 mg and 120 mg/day), escitalopram (at a dose between about
20 10 mg and 20 mg/day), fluoxetine (at a dose between about 20 mg and 80 mg/day),
   fluvoxamine (at a dose between about 100 mg and 300 mg/day), milnacipran (at a dose
   between about 30 mg and 200 mg/day), paroxetine (at a dose between about 20 mg and
   50 mg/day), sertraline (at a dose between about 50 mg and 200 mg/day), tradodone (at a
   dose between about 150 mg and 600 mg/day), and venlafaxine (at a dose between about
25 75mg and 225 mg/day),       Exemplary anticonvulsants include, but are not limited to
   carbamazepine (at a dose between about 400 mg and 1200 mg/day), gabapentin (at a
   dose between about 900-1800 mg/day), lamotrigine (at a dose between about 100 mg and
   400 mg/day), oxcarbazepine (at a dose between about 1200 mg and 2400 mg/day),
   pregabalin (at a dose between about 150 mg and 600 mg/day), tiagabine (at a dose
30 between about 32 mg and 56 mg/day), topiramate (at a dose between about 200 mg and
   400 mg/day), and valproate (at a dose between about 1200 mg and 1500 mg). Exemplary
                                                 4

     WO 20121122193                                                            PCT/US2012/027926
   alpha-l-adrenergic receptor antagonists include, but are not limited to, prazosin
   administered at a dose of between about 0.5mg to 15 mg/day.
   Generally, the amount of cyclobenzaprine in the pharmaceutical composition is between
 5 0.1 mg to about 50 mg, between 0.5 to about 30 mg, or between 1mg and 20mg. Higher
   or lower doses are also contemplated. In one particular embodiment the amount of
   cyclobenzaprine is very low to minimize side effects observed with higher amounts. The
   very low amounts are of less than 10 mg or less than 5 mg or less than 2.5 mg. Even
   lower amounts are also contemplated, In another embodiment of the invention,
10 cyclobenzaprine is combined with a drug which may further alleviate the symptoms of
   depression. The drugs include an alpha-l-adrenergic receptor antagonist, a beta
   adrenergic antagonist, an anticonvulsant, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor or a
   serotonin-norepinephine reuptake inhibitor. Exemplary anticonvulsants include, but am
   not limited to carbamazepine (400 mg to 1200 mg), gabapentin (900 mg to 1800 mg),
15 lamotrigine (100 mg to 400 mg), oxcarbazepine (1200 mg to 2400 mg), pregabalin (150
   mg to 600 mg), tiagabine (32 mg to 56 mg), topiramate (200 mg to 400 mg), and
   valproate (1200 mg to 1500 mg). An exemplary alpha-I-adrenergic receptor antagonists
   includes, but is not limited to, prazosin in the amount of 0.5 mg to 15 mg. An exemplary
   selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor is escitalopram ( in the amount of 10 mg and 20
20 mg).
   Any suitable route of administration may be employed for providing the patient with an
   effective dosage of cyclobenzaprine. For example, buccal, oral, rectal, parenteral,
   transdermal, subcutaneous, sublingual, intranasal, intramuscular, intrathecal and the like
25 may be employed as appropriate. The term parenteral as used herein includes
   subcutaneous, intracutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular, intra-articular, intrasynovial,
   intrastemal, intrathecal, intralesional and intracranial injection or infusion techniques.
   Dosage forms include tablets, such as scored tablets, coated tablets, or orally dissolving
   tablets; thin films, caplets, capsules (e.g. hard gelatin capsules), troches, dragees,
30 dispersions, suspensions, solutions, patches and the like, including sustained release
                                                   5

    WO 20121122193                                                              PCT/US2012/027926
   formulations well known in the art. In one preferred embodiment, the dosage form is an
   orally dissolving tablet or a tbin film.
   By "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" is meant any diluent or excipient that is
 5 compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation, and which is not deleterious to
   the recipient. The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can be selected on the basis of the
   desired route of administration, in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practices.
   Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention for parenteral administration can take the
   form of an aqueous or nonaqueous solution, dispersion, suspension or emulsion. In
10 preparing pharmaceutical compositions of the invention for parenteral administration,
   cyclobenzaprine can be mixed with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier such as
   water, oil (particularly a vegetable oil), ethanol, saline solutions (e.g., normal saline),
   aqueous dextrose (glucose) and related sugar solutions, glycerol, or glycols such as
   propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention
15 for parenteral administration preferably contain a water-soluble salt of cyclobenzaprine.
   Stabilizing agents, antioxidizing agents and preservatives can also be added to the
   pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration. Suitable antioxidizing agents
   include sulfite, ascorbic acid, citric acid and its salts, and sodium EDTA. Suitable
   preservatives include benzalkonium chloride, methyl- or propyl-paraben, and
20 chlorbutanot.
   In preparing pharmaceutical compositions of the invention for oral administration,
   cyclobenzaprine can be combined with one or more solid or liquid inactive ingredients to
   form tablets, capsules, pills, powders, granules or other suitable oral dosage forms. For
25 example, cyclobenzaprine can be combined with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable
   carrier such as a solvent, filler, binder, humectant, disintegrating agent, solution retarded,
   absorption accelerator, wetting agent absorbent or lubricating agent. In one embodiment,
   cyclobenzaprine is combined with carboxymethylcellulose calcium, magnesium stearate,
   mannitol or starch, and is formed into tablets by conventional tableting methods.
30
                                                   6

    WO 20121122193                                                             PCT/US2012/027926
   Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be formulated so as to provide buccal
   absorption including thin film formulations and orally dissolving tablets to provide faster
   absorption than the oral/GI route and to bypass first-pass hepatic metabolism of
   cyclobenzaprine by cytochrome P-450 3A4 as a CYP3A substrate. Preferably, a
 5 controlled-release pharmaceutical composition of the invention is capable of releasing
   cyclobenzaprine into a subject at a rapid onset, so as to maintain a substantially constant
   or desired pharmacological activity for a given period of time, reduce or remove the
   effect of food on absorption, and to provide elimination of the drug and metabolites from
   the body with a reduced terminal elimination phase,
10
   Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also be formulated so as to provide
   controlled-release of cyclobenzaprine upon administration of the composition to a
   subject. Preferably, a controlled-release pharmaceutical composition of the invention is
   capable of releasing cyclobenzaprine into a subject at a desired rate, so as to maintain a
15 substantially constant or desired pharmacological activity for a given period of time.
   As used herein, a "controlled-release component" is a compound such as a lipid or
   mixture of lipids, liposome and/or microsphere that induces the controlled-release of
   cyclobenzaprine into the subject upon exposure to a certain physiological compound or
   condition. For example, the controlled-release component can be biodegradable, activated
20 by exposure to a certain pH or temperature, by exposure to an aqueous environment, or
   by exposure to enzymes.
   Formulation of controlled-release pharmaceutical compositions of the invention is within
   the skill in the art. Controlled release formulations suitable for use in the present
25 invention are described in, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,674,533 (liquid dosage forms),
   U.S. Pat. No. 5,591,767 (liquid reservoir transdermal patch), U.S. Pat. No. 5,120,548
   (device comprising swellable polymers), U.S. Pat. No. 5,073,543 (ganglioside-liposome
   vehicle), U.S. Pat. No. 5,639,476 (stable solid formulation coated with a hydrophobic
   acrylic polymer), the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
30
   Biodegradable microparticles can also be used to formulate controlled-release
                                                  7

     WO 20121122193                                                          PCT/US2012/027926
   pharmaceutical compositions suitable for use in the present invention, for example as
   described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,354,566 and 5,733,566, the entire disclosures of which are
   herein incorporated by reference.
 5 In one embodiment, controlled-release pharmaceutical compositions of the invention
   comprise cyclobenzaprine and a controlled-release component. As used herein, a
   "controlled-release component" is a compound such as a polymer, polymer matrix, gel,
   permeable membrane, liposome and/or microsphere that induces the controlled-release of
   cyclobenzaprine into the subject upon exposure to a certain physiological compound or
10 condition. For example, the controlled-release component can be biodegradable, activated
   by exposure to a certain pH or temperature, by exposure to an aqueous environment, or
   by exposure to enzymes. An example of a controlled-release component which is
   activated by exposure to a certain temperature is a sol-gel. In this embodiment,
   cyclobenzaprine is incorporated into a sol-gel matrix that is a solid at room temperature.
15 This sol-gel matrix is implanted into a subject having a body temperature high enough to
   induce gel formation of the sol-gel matrix, thereby releasing the active ingredient into the
   subject.
   In one embodiment, pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may comprise
20 cyclobenzaprine and components that form micelles. Micelles containing
   cyclobenzaprine in the stomach and proximal small intestine facilitate absorption.
   Example of a micelle-component which is activated by exposure to a certain temperature
   is found in US Patent Nos. 6,761,903; 6,720,001; 6,383,471; 6,309,663; 6,267,985; and
   6,248,363, incorporated herein by reference. . In this embodiment, cyclobenzaprine is
25 incorporated into a soft-gel capsule. Such components may mimic the augmentation of
   absorption termed the "food effect", and such formulations may provide more predictable
   absorption by eliminating the "food effect" from dietary sources.
   The composition of this invention may be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation.
30 Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well-known in the art of
   pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline, employing benzyl
                                                 8

    WO 20121122193                                                              PCT/US2012/027926
   alcohol or other suitable preservatives, absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability.
   fluorocarbons, and/or other solubilizing or dispersing agents known in the art.
   The magnitude of a prophylactic or therapeutic dose of the active ingredient (i.e.,
 5 cyclobenzaprine or metabolite thereof) in the prevention or treatment of a human will
   vary with the type of affliction, the severity of the patient's affliction and the route of
   administration. The dose and dose frequency will also vary according to the age, weight
   and response of the individual patient. However, the dosage will not equal or exceed 5
   mgs per day. In a preferred embodiment, one dose is given at bed time or up to several
10 hours before bedtime to facilitate the achievement of deep, refreshing sleep. Bedtime may
   be any hour of the day at which a person engages in the most extensive period of sleep.
   Any of the methods of treatment described above may be combined with
   psychotherapeutic intervention to improve the outcome of the treatment. Of particular
15 interest is psychotherapeutic intervention directed at improvement in terms of reducing
   depression.
   A pharmacogenomic test to measure cytochrome CYP3A4, CYPIA2, CYP3A and
   CYP2G6 may be used to predict the metabolism of cyclobenzapiine by certain patients in
20 personalized medicine. Thus, the invention is a method for selecting an effective dose of
   cyclobenzaprine to be administered to a human in need of such treatment to correct for
   variations in cyclobenzaprine metabolism. The method comprises obtaining a genetic
   sample from said human and identifying the CYP IA2, CYP3A4, CYP3A or CYP2G6
   genotype of said human, for example by using a gene chip or a PCR technique, to
25 identify the alleles of one or more of the genes. Different alleles metabolize
   cyclobenzaprine at different speeds. For individuals having a cytochrome allele
   identified to metabolize cyclobenzaprine quickly a higher dose of cyclobezaprine is
   administered. For individuals having an allele identified to metabolize cyclobenzaprine
   slowly a lower dose of cyclobenzaprine is administered. The genetic test can be sold as a
30 kit with the product to physicians/lab testing services.
                                                  9

     WO 20121122193                                                         PCT/US2012/027926
   In order that this invention to be more fully understood, the following examples are set
   forth. These examples are for the purpose of illustration only and are not to be construed
   as limiting the scope of the invention in any way. The practice of the invention is
 5 illustrated by the following non-limiting examples.
                                           EXAMPLES
10 EXAMPLE I Tablet Formulation
   A typical oral formulation for coated tablets consists of the following:
   Formula quantity per tablet (mg.) cyclobenzapine 1.0, lactose 74.0, corn starch 35.0,
   water (per thousand tablets) 30.0 ml, magnesium stearate 1.0, corn starch 25.0
   The active ingredient (cyclobenzaprine) is blended with the lactose until a uniform blend
15 is formed. The smaller quantity of corn starch is blended with a suitable quantity of water
   to fonn a corn starch paste. This is then mixed with the uniform blend until a uniform wet
   mass is formed. The remaining corn starch is added to the resulting wet mass and mixed
   until uniform granules are obtained. The granules are then screened through a suitable
   milling machine, using a 1/4 inch stainless steel screen. The milled granules are then
20 dried in a suitable drying oven until the desired moisture content is obtained. The dried
   granules are then milled through a suitable milling machine using 1/4 mesh stainless steel
   screen. The magnesium stearate is then blended and the resulting mixture is compressed
   into tablets of desired shape, thickness, hardness and disintegration.
25 Tablets are coated by standard aqueous or nonaqueous techniques. For example, 2.5 mg
   of hydroxypropymethylcellulose can be dissolved in 25 mg of deionized water. An
   aqueous (10 mg) suspension of 1.88 mg talc, 0.5 mg of titanium dioxide, 0. 1 mg of
   yellow iron oxide, and 0.02 mg of red iron oxide is stirred into this solution. The coating
   suspension is sprayed on the tablets and the coated tablets are dried overnight at
30 45.degree. C.
                                                 10

     WO 20121122193                                                         PCT/US2012/027926
   EXAMPLE 2 Development of an Optimized Gelcap Formulation of VLD Cyclo for
   Depression.
   We are developing a novel gelcap (KRL103) that employs a specific mixture of lipids to
   form micelles containing cyclobenzaprine that is expected to speed upper GI absorption,
 5 increase efficiency of absorption (in stomach and proximal small intestine); decrease or
   eliminate food effect (which is 20% for the Amrix formulation of cyclobenzaprine) and
   speed elimination (since lower GI absorption may prolong the terminal elimination phase
   in existing formulations). The gelcap formulation is expected to result in increased
   dosage precision; decreased potential for morning "hangover"; and potentially more rapid
10 induction of sleep.
   EXAMPLE 3 Treatment of Depression
   Of 37 patients with fibromyalgia (American College of Rheumatology (ACR), 1990
   criteria) in the screened population, 36 were randomized and 33 completed this 8-week,
15 double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalating study of very low dose cyclobenzaprine
   (VLD CBP) I - 4 mg at bedtime. We evaluated changes in subjective symptoms and
   objective sleep measures in the treated population (n=36) including: pain, tenderness
   (dolorimetry), fatigue, mood [Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD)] and EEG
   sleep physiology (at screening, baseline and weeks 2, 4 and 8).
20
   HospitalAnxiety and Depression Scale (HAD). The Hospital Anxiety and Depression
   Scale (HAD) is a widely used patient self-rated scale with 14 questions (7 "anxiety" and
   7 "depression" questions) that ranges from 0-42. For subjects who received VLD CBP,
   the HAD score changed from 13.7 at baseline to 10.4 at week 8, which was a decrease (or
25 improvement) of 3.3 (24.1%, p=0. 0 1 2 ). In contrast, placebo treatment did not result in
   statistically significant changes in HAD scale, which was 15.7 at baseline and 15.1 at
   week 8 (-3.8%, p =0.459). Comparison of the change from baseline between the VLD
   CBP and placebo groups at week 8 did not reveal a significant effect of VLD CBP
   treatment on the HAD scale.
30
                                                 11

    The HAD Depression Subscale score was also analyzed. For subjects who received VLD CBP,
    the HAD depression subscale changed from 6.3 at baseline to 4.9 at week 8, which was a
    decrease (or improvement) of 1.4 (22.2%, p=0.017), In contrast, placebo treatment did not
    result in statistically significant changes in intragroup HAD depression subscale, from 6.7 at
  5 baseline to 7.4 at week 8, which was an increase of 0.7 (10.4%, p =0.319). Comparison of the
    change from baseline between the VLD CBP and placebo groups at week 8 revealed that VLD
    CBP treatment was associated with a significant improvement in the HAD Depression subscore
    (p= 0.023).
 LO All references cited herein are incorporated by reference. The present invention may be
    embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof
    and, accordingly, reference should be made to the appended paragraphs, rather than to the
    foregoing specification, as indication the scope of the invention.
 [5 The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used
    herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any other
    integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation of the
    term is required.
  0 Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the disclosures
    constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
    Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
    paragraphs:
25
    1.       A method for treating depression comprising administering to a human in need of such
    treatment a pharmaceutical composition comprising cyclobenzaprine in a therapeutically
    effective amount and a therapeutically effective carrier, wherein such treatment ameliorates or
    eliminates the depression.
30
    2.       The method of paragraph 1, wherein the amount of cyclobenzaprine administered is less
    than 5 mg/day.
                                                        12

    3.       The method of paragraph 2, wherein the amount of cyclobenzaprine administered is less
    than 2.5 mg/day.
    4.       The method of paragraph 1, wherein the method further comprises administering
  5 sequentially or concurrently an antidepressant drug.
    5.       The method of paragraph 1, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is administered as
    an orally dissolving tablet or as a thin film formulation.
 LO 6.       The method of paragraph 1, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is administered in
    combination with psychotherapeutic intervention.
    7.       The method of paragraph 1, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is administered at
    bedtime.
 L5
    8.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of
    cyclobenzaprine in combination with an antidepressant drug.
    9.       The pharmaceutical composition of paragraph 8, wherein the amount of
 M0 cyclobenzaprine is less than 5 mg.
    10.      The pharmaceutical composition of paragraph 9, wherein the amount of
    cyclobenzaprine is less than 2.5 mg.
25  11.      The pharmaceutical composition of paragraph 8, wherein the pharmaceutical
    composition is an orally dissolving tablet or a thin film formulation.
    Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                      13

CLAIMS
1.      A pharmaceutical composition for use in treating depression comprising a
therapeutically effective amount of cyclobenzaprine in combination with an antidepressant
drug.
2.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the amount of cyclobenzaprine is
less than 5 mg.
3.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 2, wherein the amount of cyclobenzaprine is
less than 2.5 mg.
4.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the pharmaceutical
composition is an orally dissolving tablet or a thin film formulation.
5.      The pharmaceutical composition of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the antidepressant
drug is selected from an alpha-1-adrenergic receptor antagonist, a beta-adrenergic antagonist,
an anticonvulsant, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and a serotonin-norepinephrine
reuptake inhibitor.
6.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 5, wherein the alpha-1-adrenergic receptor
antagonist is prazosin.
7.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 5, wherein the anticonvulsant is selected from
carbamazepine, gabapentin, lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine, pregabalin, tiagabine, topiramate, and
valproate.
8.      The pharmaceutical composition of claim 5, wherein the selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor is escitalopram.
Date: 26 June 2018
                                                 14

