                                             ABSTRACT
         A genetically modified mouse is provided, wherein the mouse is incapable of rearranging
and expressing an endogenous mouse immunoglobulin light chain variable sequence, wherein
the mouse expresses only one or two human light chain variable domains encoded by human
immunoglobulin sequences operably linked to the mouse kappa (K)constant gene at the
endogenous mouse       K locus, wherein the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric antibody having
a light chain variable domain derived from one of only two human light chain variable region
gene segments and a mouse        K constant domain, and a human heavy chain variable domain
and a mouse heavy chain constant domain, from an endogenous mouse heavy chain locus.
Bispecific epitope-binding proteins that are fully human are provided, comprising two different
heavy chains that associate with an identical light chain that comprises a variable domain
derived from one of two different human light chain variable region gene segments.

COMMON LIGHT CHAIN MOUSE
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional from Australian patent application number
2014200245, which in turn is a divisional from Australian patent application number
2011213585, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0001a] A genetically modified mouse is provided that expresses antibodies having a
common human variable/mouse constant light chain associated with diverse human
variable/mouse constant heavy chains. A method for making a human bispecific antibody
from human variable region gene sequences of B cells of the mouse is provided.
BACKGROUND
[0002] Antibodies typically comprise a homodimeric heavy chain component, wherein each
heavy chain monomer is associated with an identical light chain.             Antibodies having a
heterodimeric heavy chain component (e.g.,          bispecific antibodies) are desirable as
therapeutic antibodies.     But making bispecific antibodies having a suitable light chain
component that can satisfactorily associate with each of the heavy chains of a bispecific
antibody has proved problematic.
[0003] In one approach, a light chain might be selected by surveying usage statistics for all
light chain variable domains, identifying the most frequently employed light chain in human
antibodies, and pairing that light chain in vitro with the two heavy chains of differing
specificity.
[0004] In another approach, a light chain might be selected by observing light chain
sequences in a phage display library (e.g., a phage display library comprising human light
chain variable region sequences, e.g., a human ScFv library) and selecting the most
commonly used light chain variable region from the library.         The light chain can then be
tested on the two different heavy chains of interest.
[0005] In another approach, a light chain might be selected by assaying a phage display
library of light chain variable sequences using the heavy chain variable sequences of both
heavy chains of interest as probes. A light chain that associates with both heavy chain
variable sequences might be selected as a light chain for the heavy chains.
[0006] In another approach, a candidate light chain might be aligned with the heavy chains'
cognate light chains, and modifications are made in the light chain to more closely match
sequence characteristics common to the cognate light chains of both heavy chains. If the
chances of immunogenicity need to be minimized, the modifications preferably result in
sequences that are present in known human light chain sequences, such that proteolytic
processing is unlikely to generate a T cell epitope based on parameters and methods known
in the art for assessing the likelihood of immunogenicity (i.e., in silico as well as wet assays).
                                                I

   WO 2011/097603                                                              PCT/US2011/023971
[0007]AII of the above approaches rely on in vitro methods that subsume a number of a
priori restraints, e.g., sequence identity, ability to associate with specific pre-selected heavy
chains, etc. There is a need in the art for compositions and methods that do not rely on
manipulating in vitro conditions, but that instead employ more biologically sensible
approaches to making human epitope-binding proteins that include a common light chain.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0008] FIG. 1 illustrates a targeting strategy for replacing endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene segments with a human Vx1-39JK5 gene
region.
[0009] FIG. 2 illustrates a targeting strategy for replacing endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene segments with a human VK3-20JK1 gene
region.
[0010] FIG. 3 illustrates a targeting strategy for replacing endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin light chain variable region gene segments with a human VpreB/Jk5 gene
region.
SUMMARY
[0011]Genetically modified mice that express human immunoglobulin heavy and light chain
variable domains, wherein the mice have a limited light chain variable repertoire, are
provided. A biological system for generating a human light chain variable domain that
associates and expresses with a diverse repertoire of affinity-matured human heavy chain
variable domains is provided. Methods for making binding proteins comprising
immunoglobulin variable domains are provided, comprising immunizing mice that have a
limited immunoglobulin light chain repertoire with an antigen of interest, and employing an
immunoglobulin variable region gene sequence of the mouse in a binding protein that
specifically binds the antigen of interest. Methods include methods for making human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains suitable for use in making multi-specific
antigen-binding proteins.
[0012] Genetically engineered mice are provided that select suitable affinity-matured human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains derived from a repertoire of unrearranged
human heavy chain variable region gene segments, wherein the affinity-matured human
heavy chain variable domains associate and express with a single human light chain
variable domain derived from one human light chain variable region gene segment.
Genetically engineered mice that present a choice of two human light chain variable region
gene segments are also provided.

   WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
[0013] Genetically engineered mice are provided that express a limited repertoire of human
light chain variable domains, or a single human light chain variable domain, from a limited
repertoire of human light chain variable region gene segments. The mice are genetically
engineered to include a single unrearranged human light chain variable region gene
segment (or two human light chain variable region gene segments) that rearranges to form a
rearranged human light chain variable region gene (or two rearranged light chain variable
region genes) that express a single light chain (or that express either or both of two light
chains). The rearranged human light chain variable domains are capable of pairing with a
plurality of affinity-matured human heavy chains selected by the mice, wherein the heavy
chain variable regions specifically bind different epitopes.
[0014] In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that comprises a single
human immunoglobulin light chain variable (VL) region gene segment that is capable of
rearranging and encoding a human VL domain of an immunoglobulin light chain. In another
aspect, the mouse comprises no more than two human VL gene segments that are capable
of rearranging and encoding a human VL domain of an immunoglobulin light chain.
[0015] In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that comprises a single
rearranged (V/J) human immunoglobulin light chain variable (VL) region segment (i.e., a V/J
segment) that encodes a human VL domain of an immunoglobulin light chain. In another
aspect, the mouse comprises no more than two rearranged human VL gene segments that
are capable of encoding a human VL domain of an immunoglobulin light chain.
[0016] in one embodiment, the VL gene segment is a human VK1-39JK5 gene segment or a
human VK3-20JKI gene segment. In one embodiment, the mouse has both a human VK1
39JK5 gene segment and a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment.
[0017] In one embodiment, the human VL gene segment is operably linked to a human or
mouse leader sequence. In one embodiment, the leader sequence is a mouse leader
sequence. In a specific embodiment, the mouse leader sequence is a mouse VK3-7 leader
sequence.
[0018] In one embodiment, the VL gene segment is operably linked to an immunoglobulin
promoter sequence. In one embodiment, the promoter sequence is a human promoter
sequence. In a specific embodiment, the human immunoglobulin promoter is a VK3 -15
promoter.
[0019] In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse comprises a VL locus that does
not comprise an endogenous mouse VL gene segment that is capable of rearranging to form
an immunoglobulin light chain gene, wherein the VL locus comprises a single human VL
gene segment that is capable of rearranging to encode a VL region of a light chain gene. In

    WO 2011/097603                                                        PCT/US2011/023971
a specific embodiment, the human VL gene segment is a human Vx1-39JK5 gene segment
or a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment.
[0020] In one embodiment, the VL locus comprises a leader sequence flanked 5' (with
respect to transcriptional direction of the VL gene segment) with a human immunoglobulin
promoter and flanked 3' with a human VL gene segment that rearranges and encodes VL
domain of a reverse chimeric light chain comprising an endogenous mouse light chain
constant region (CL). In a specific embodiment, the VL gene segment is at the mouse
kappa (K)VL locus, and the mouse CL is a mouse K CL.
[0021]In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a nonfunctional lambda (k)
immunoglobulin light chain locus. In a specific embodiment, the k locus comprises a
deletion of one or more sequences of the locus, wherein the one or more deletions renders
the k locus incapable of rearranging to form a light chain gene. In another embodiment all or
substantially all of the VL gene segments of the k locus are deleted.
[0022] In one embodiment, the VL locus of the modified mouse is a K locus, and the K locus
comprises a mouse      K intronic enhancer, a mouse K 3' enhancer, or both an intronic
enhancer and a 3' enhancer.
[0023] In one embodiment, mouse makes a light chain that comprises a somatically mutated
VL domain derived from a human VL gene segment. In one embodiment, the light chain
comprises a somatically mutated VL domain derived from a human VL gene segment, and a
 mouse K CL region. In one embodiment, the mouse does not express a k light chain.
 [0024] In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is capable of somatically
hypermutating the human VL region sequence. In a specific embodiment, the mouse
comprises a cell that comprises a rearranged immunoglobulin light chain gene derived from
the human VL gene segment that is capable of rearranging and encoding a VL domain, and
the rearranged immunoglobulin light chain gene comprises a somatically mutated VL
domain.
[0025] In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a cell that expresses a light chain
comprising a somatically mutated human VL domain linked to a mouse K CL, wherein the
light chain associates with a heavy chain comprising a somatically mutated VH domain
derived from a human VH gene segment and wherein the heavy chain comprises a mouse
heavy chain constant region (CH).
[0026] In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a replacement of endogenous mouse VH
gene segments with one or more human VH gene segments, wherein the human VH gene
segments are operably linked to a mouse CH region gene, such that the mouse rearranges
the human VH gene segments and expresses a reverse chimeric immunoglobulin heavy
chain that comprises a human VH domain and a mouse CH. In one embodiment, 90-100%
                                                A

   WO 2011/097603                                                           PCT/US2011/023971
of unrearranged mouse VH gene segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged
human VH gene segment. In a specific embodiment, all or substantially all of the
endogenous mouse VH gene segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged human
VH gene segment. In one embodiment, the replacement is with at least 19, at least 39, or at
least 80 or 81 unrearranged human VH gene segments. In one embodiment, the
replacement is with at least 12 functional unrearranged human VH gene segments, at least
25 functional unrearranged human VH gene segments, or at least 43 functional
unrearranged human VH gene segments. In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a
replacement of all mouse D and J segments with at least one unrearranged human D
segment and at least one unrearranged human J segment. In one embodiment, the at least
one unrearranged human D segment is selected from D1-7, D1-26, D3-3, D3-10, D3-16, D3
22, D5-5, D5-12, D6-6, D6-13, D7-27, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the at
least one unrearranged human J segment is selected from J1, J3, J4, J5, J6, and a
combination thereof. In a specific embodiment, the one or more human VH gene segment is
selected from a 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3-13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48,
4-31, 4-39, 4-59, 5-51, a 6-1 human VH gene segment, and a combination thereof.
[0027] In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a B cell that expresses a binding protein
that specifically binds an antigen of interest, wherein the binding protein comprises a light
chain derived from a human Vcl-39/JK5 rearrangement or a human VK3-20/JK1
rearrangement, and wherein the cell comprises a rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain
gene derived from a rearrangement of human gene segments selected from a VH2-5, VH3
23, VH3-30, VH 4-39, VH4-59, and VH5-51 gene segment. In one embodiment, the one or
more human VH gene segments are rearranged with a human heavy chain J gene segment
selected from J1, J3, J4, J5, and J6. In one embodiment, the one or more human VH and J
gene segments are rearranged with a human D gene segment selected from D1-7, D1-26,
D3-3, D3-10, D3-16, D3-22, D5-5, D5-12, D6-6, D6-13, and D7-27. In a specific
embodiment, the light chain gene has 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 or more somatic hypermutations.
[0028] In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a B cell that comprises a rearranged
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene sequence comprising a VH, JH, and DH
gene segment selected from VH 2-5 + JH1 + D6-6, VH3-23 + JH4 + D3, VH3-23 + JH4 +
D3-10, VH3-30 + JH1 + D6-6, VH3-30 +JH3 + D6-6, VH3-30 + JH4 + D1-7, VH3-30 + JH4 +
D5-12, VH3-30 + JH4 + D6-13, VH3-30 + JH4 + D6-6, VH3-30 + JH4 + D7-27, VH3-30 +
JH5 + D3-22, VH3-30 + JH5 + D6-6, VH3-30 + JH5 + D7-27, VH4-39 + JH3 + D1-26, VH4
59 + JH3 + D3-16, VH4-59 + JH3 + D3-22, VH4-59 + JH4 + D3-16, VH5-51 + JH3 + D5-5,
VH5-51 + JH5 + D6-13, and VH5-51 + JH6 + D3-16. In a specific embodiment, the B cell
expresses a binding protein comprising a human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable

   WO 2011/097603                                                           PCT/US2011/023971
region fused with a mouse heavy chain constant region, and a human immunoglobulin light
chain variable region fused with a mouse light chain constant region.
[0029] In one embodiment, the human VL gene segment is a human VK1-39JK5 gene
segment, and the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric light chain comprising (i) a VL
domain derived from the human VL gene segment and (ii) a mouse CL; wherein the light
chain is associated with a reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (i) a mouse CH and (ii) a
somatically mutated human VH domain derived from a human VH gene segment selected
from a 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3-13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48, 4-31, 4-39,
4-59, 5-51, and 6-1 human VH gene segment, and a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the mouse expresses a light chain that is somatically mutated. In one
embodiment the CL is a mouse K CL.
[0030] In one embodiment, the human VL gene segment is a human VK3-20Ji1 gene
segment, and the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric light chain comprising (i) a VL
domain derived from the human VL gene segment, and (ii) a mouse CL; wherein the light
chain is associated with a reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (i) a mouse CH, and (ii)
a somatically mutated human VH derived from a human VH gene segment selected from a
1-2, 2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 4-59, and 5-51 human VH gene segment,
and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the mouse expresses a light chain that is
somatically mutated. In one embodiment the CL is a mouse        x CL.
[0031] In one embodiment, the mouse comprises both a human VK1-39JK5 gene segment
and a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment, and the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric light
chain comprising (i) a VL domain derived from a human VK1-39JK5 gene segment or a
human VK3-20JK1 gene segment, and (ii) a mouse CL; wherein the light chain is associated
with a reverse chimeric heavy chain comprising (i) a mouse CH, and (ii) a somatically
mutated human VH derived from a human VH gene segment selected from a 1-2, 1-8, 1-24,
2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3-13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48, 4-31, 4-39, 4-59, 5-51, a 6-1
human VH gene segment, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the mouse
expresses a light chain that is somatically mutated. In one embodiment the CL is a mouse       K
CL.
[0032] In one embodiment, 90-100% of the endogenous unrearranged mouse VH gene
segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged human VH gene segment. In a
specific embodiment, all or substantially all of the endogenous unrearranged mouse VH
gene segments are replaced with at least one unrearranged human VH gene segment. In
one embodiment, the replacement is with at least 18, at least 39, at least 80, or 81
unrearranged human VH gene segments. In one embodiment, the replacement is with at
least 12 functional unrearranged human VH gene segments, at least 25 functional
                                                 A

   WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
unrearranged human VH gene segments, or at least 43 unrearranged human VH gene
segments.
[0033] In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is a C57BL strain, in a specific
embodiment selected from C57BL/A, C57BL/An, C57BL/GrFa, C57BL/KaLwN, C57BL/6,
C57BL/6J, C57BL/6ByJ, C57BL/6NJ, C57BL/10, C57BL/1OScSn, C57BL/1OCr, C57BL/Ola.
In a specific embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is a mix of an aforementioned 129
strain and an aforementioned C57BL/6 strain. In another specific embodiment, the mouse is
a mix of aforementioned 129 strains, or a mix of aforementioned BL/6 strains. In a specific
embodiment, the 129 strain of the mix is a 129S6 (129/SvEvTac) strain.
[0034] In one embodiment, the mouse expresses a reverse chimeric antibody comprising a
light chain that comprises a mouse K CL and a somatically mutated human VL domain
derived from a human VK1-39JK5 gene segment or a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment, and
a heavy chain that comprises a mouse CH and a somatically mutated human VH domain
derived from a human VH gene segment selected from a 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11,
3-13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48, 4-31, 4-39, 4-59, 5-51, and a 6-1 human VH gene
segment, wherein the mouse does not express a fully mouse antibody and does not express
a fully human antibody. In one embodiment the mouse comprises a 1<light chain locus that
comprises a replacement of endogenous mouse K VL gene segments with the human Vx1
39J K5 gene segment or the human V K3-20J K 1 gene segment, and comprises a replacement
of all or substantially all endogenous mouse VH gene segments with a complete or
substantially complete repertoire of human VH gene segments.
[0035] In one aspect, a mouse cell is provided that is isolated from a mouse as described
herein. In one embodiment, the cell is an ES cell. In one embodiment, the cell is a
lymphocyte. In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is a B cell. In one embodiment, the B cell
expresses a chimeric heavy chain comprising a variable domain derived from a human gene
segment; and a light chain derived from a rearranged human VK1-39/J segment, rearranged
human VK3-20/J segment, or a combination thereof; wherein the heavy chain variable
domain is fused to a mouse constant region and the light chain variable domain is fused to a
mouse or a human constant region.
[0036] In one aspect, a hybridoma is provided, wherein the hybridoma is made with a B cell
of a mouse as described herein. In a specific embodiment, the B cell is from a mouse as
described herein that has been immunized with an immunogen comprising an epitope of
interest, and the B cell expresses a binding protein that binds the epitope of interest, the
binding protein has a somatically mutated human VH domain and a mouse CH, and has a
human VL domain derived from a human VK1-39J5 or a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment
and a mouse CL.
                                                7

    WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
[0037] In one aspect, a mouse embryo is provided, wherein the embryo comprises a donor
ES cell that is derived from a mouse as described herein.
[0038] in one aspect, a targeting vector is provided, comprising, from 5' to 3' in
transcriptional direction with reference to the sequences of the 5' and 3' mouse homology
arms of the vector, a 5' mouse homology arm, a human or mouse immunoglobulin promoter,
a human or mouse leader sequence, and a human LCVR gene segment selected from a
human VK1-39JK5 or a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment, and a 3' mouse homology arm. In
one embodiment, the 5' and 3' homology arms target the vector to a sequence 5' with
respect to an enhancer sequence that is present 5' and proximal to the mouse K constant
region gene. In one embodiment, the promoter is a human immunoglobulin variable region
gene segment promoter. In a specific embodiment, the promoter is a human VK3-15
promoter. In one embodiment, the leader sequence is a mouse leader sequence. In a
specific embodiment, the mouse leader sequence is a mouse VK3-7 leader sequence.
[0039] In one aspect, a targeting vector is provided as described above, but in place of the
5' mouse homology arm the human or mouse promoter is flanked 5' with a site-specific
recombinase recognition site (SRRS), and in place of the 3' mouse homology arm the
human LCVR gene segment is flanked 3' with an SRRS.
[0040] In one aspect, a reverse chimeric antibody made by a mouse as described herein,
wherein the reverse chimeric antibody comprises a light chain comprising a mouse CL and a
human VL, and a heavy chain comprising a human VH and a mouse CH.
[0041] In one aspect, a method for making an antibody is provided, comprising expressing
in a single cell (a) a first VH gene sequence of an immunized mouse as described herein
fused with a human CH gene sequence; (b) a VL gene sequence of an immunized mouse as
described herein fused with a human CL gene sequence; and, (c) maintaining the cell under
conditions sufficient to express a fully human antibody, and isolating the antibody. In one
embodiment, the cell comprises a second VH gene sequence of a second immunized
mouse as described herein fused with a human CH gene sequence, the first VH gene
sequence encodes a VH domain that recognizes a first epitope, and the second VH gene
sequence encodes a VH domain that recognizes a second epitope, wherein the first epitope
and the second epitope are not identical.
[0042] in one aspect, a method for making an epitope-binding protein is provided,
comprising exposing a mouse as described herein with an immunogen that comprises an
epitope of interest, maintaining the mouse under conditions sufficient for the mouse to
generate an immunoglobulin molecule that specifically binds the epitope of interest, and
isolating the immunoglobulin molecule that specifically binds the epitope of interest; wherein
the epitope-binding protein comprises a heavy chain that comprises a somatically mutated
                                                 8

     WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
 human VH and a mouse CH, associated with a light chain comprising a mouse CL and a
 human VL derived from a human VK1-39 JK5 or a human VK3-20 JK1 gene segment.
 [0043] In one aspect, a cell that expresses an epitope-binding protein is provided, wherein
 the cell comprises: (a) a human VL nucleotide sequence encoding a human VL domain
 derived from a human VK1-39JK5 or a human VK3-20JK1 gene segment, wherein the human
 VL nucleotide sequence is fused (directly or through a linker) to a human immunoglobulin
 light chain constant domain cDNA sequence (e.g., a human K constant domain DNA
 sequence); and, (b) a first human VH nucleotide sequence encoding a human VH domain
 derived from a first human VH nucleotide sequence, wherein the first human VH nucleotide
 sequence is fused (directly or through a linker) to a human immunoglobulin heavy chain
 constant domain cDNA sequence; wherein the epitope-binding protein recognizes a first
 epitope. In one embodiment, the epitope-binding protein binds the first epitope with a
 dissociation constant of lower than 10-6 M, lower than 108 M, lower than 10-9 M, lower than
 10-10 M, lower than 10-11 M, or lower than 10-12 M.
 [0044] In one embodiment, the cell comprises a second human VH nucleotide sequence
 encoding a second human VH domain, wherein the second human VH sequence is fused
 (directly or through a linker) to a human immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain cDNA
 sequence, and wherein the second human VH domain does not specifically recognize the
first epitope (e.g., displays a dissociation constant of, e.g., 10~6 M, 10- M, 104 M, or higher),
 and wherein the epitope-binding protein recognizes the first epitope and the second epitope,
 and wherein the first and the second immunoglobulin heavy chains each associate with an
 identical light chain of (a).
 [0045] In one embodiment, the second VH domain binds the second epitope with a
dissociation constant that is lower than 10~6 M, lower than 10-7 M, lower than 10-8 M, lower
than 10-9 M, lower than 1010 M, lower than 10-11 M, or lower than 10-12 M.
 [0046] In one embodiment, the epitope-binding protein comprises a first immunoglobulin
heavy chain and a second immunoglobulin heavy chain, each associated with an identical
light chain derived from a human VL gene segment selected from a human VK1-39JK5 or a
human VK3-20JK1 gene segment, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain binds a first
epitope with a dissociation constant in the nanomolar to picomolar range, the second
immunoglobulin heavy chain binds a second epitope with a dissociation constant in the
nanomolar to picomolar range, the first epitope and the second epitope are not identical, the
first immunoglobulin heavy chain does not bind the second epitope or binds the second
epitope with a dissociation constant weaker than the micromolar range (e.g., the millimolar
range), the second immunoglobulin heavy chain does not bind the first epitope or binds the
first epitope with a dissociation constant weaker than the micromolar range (e.g., the
                                                 P

    WO 2011/097603                                                       PCT/US2011/023971
millimolar range), and one or more of the VL, the VH of the first immunoglobulin heavy
chain, and the VH of the second immunoglobulin heavy chain, are somatically mutated.
[0047] In one embodiment, the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a protein A
binding residue, and the second immunoglobulin heavy chain lacks the protein A-binding
residue.
[0048] In one embodiment, the cell is selected from CHO, COS, 293, HeLa, and a retinal
cell expressing a viral nucleic acid sequence (e.g., a PERC.6 TM cell).
[0049] in one aspect, a reverse chimeric antibody is provided, comprising a human VH and
a mouse heavy chain constant domain, a human VL and a mouse light chain constant
domain, wherein the antibody is made by a process that comprises immunizing a mouse as
described herein with an immunogen comprising an epitope, and the antibody specifically
binds the epitope of the immunogen with which the mouse was immunized. In one
embodiment, the VL domain is somatically mutated. In one embodiment the VH domain is
somatically mutated. In one embodiment, both the VL domain and the VH domain are
somatically mutated. In one embodiment, the VL is linked to a mouse K constant domain.
[0050] In one aspect, a mouse is provided, comprising human heavy chain variable gene
segments replacing all or substantially all mouse heavy chain variable gene segments at the
endogenous mouse locus; no more than one or two human light chain variable gene
segments selected from a rearranged VK1-39/J and a rearranged VK3-20/J segment or a
combination thereof, replacing all mouse light chain variable gene segments; wherein the
human heavy chain variable gene segments are linked to a mouse constant gene, and the
human light chain variable gene segment(s) is linked to a human or mouse constant gene.
[0051] In one aspect, a mouse ES cell comprising a replacement of all or substantially all
mouse heavy chain variable gene segments with human heavy chain variable gene
segments, and no more than one or two rearranged human light chain V/J segments,
wherein the human heavy chain variable gene segments are linked to a mouse
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant gene, and the human light chain V/J segments are
linked to a mouse or human immunoglobulin light chain constant gene. In a specific
embodiment, the light chain constant gene is a mouse constant gene.
[0052] In one aspect, an antigen-binding protein made by a mouse as described herein is
provided. In a specific embodiment, the antigen-binding protein comprises a human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region fused with a mouse constant region, and a
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region derived from a VK1-39 gene segment or a
VK3 - 2 0 gene segment, wherein the light chain constant region is a mouse constant region.
[0053] In one aspect, a fully human antigen-binding protein made from an immunoglobulin
variable region gene sequence from a mouse as described herein is provided, wherein the
                                               10

    WO 2011/097603                                                            PCT/US2011/023971
antigen-binding protein comprises a fully human heavy chain comprising a human variable
region derived from a sequence of a mouse as described herein, and a fully human light
chain comprising a VK1-39 or a Vi3-20 variable region. In one embodiment, the light chain
variable region comprises one to five somatic mutations. In one embodiment, the light chain
variable region is a cognate light chain variable region that is paired in a B cell of the mouse
with the heavy chain variable region.
[0054] In one embodiment, the fully human antigen-binding protein comprises a first heavy
chain and a second heavy chain, wherein the first heavy chain and the second heavy chain
comprise non-identical variable regions independently derived from a mouse as described
herein, and wherein each of the first and second heavy chains express from a host cell
associated with a human light chain derived from a VK1-39 gene segment or a VK3-20 gene
segment. In one embodiment, the first heavy chain comprises a first heavy chain variable
region that specifically binds a first epitope of a first antigen, and the second heavy chain
comprises a second heavy chain variable region that specifically binds a second epitope of a
second antigen. In a specific embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are
different. In a specific embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are the same,
and the first epitope and the second epitope are not identical; in a specific embodiment,
binding of the first epitope by a first molecule of the binding protein does not block binding of
the second epitope by a second molecule of the binding protein.
[0055] In one aspect, a fully human binding protein derived from a human immunoglobulin
sequence of a mouse as described herein comprises a first immunoglobulin heavy chain and
a second immunoglobulin heavy chain, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain
comprises a first variable region that is not identical to a variable region of the second
immunoglobulin heavy chain, and wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
wild-type protein A binding determinant, and the second heavy chain lacks a wild-type
protein A binding determinant. In one embodiment, the first immunoglobulin heavy chain
binds protein A under isolation conditions, and the second immunoglobulin heavy chain does
not bind protein A or binds protein A at least 10-fold, a hundred-fold, or a thousand-fold
weaker than the first immunoglobulin heavy chain binds protein A under isolation conditions.
In a specific embodiment, the first and the second heavy chains are IgG1 isotypes, wherein
the second heavy chain comprises a modification selected from 95R (EU 435R), 96F (EU
436F), and a combination thereof, and wherein the first heavy chain lacks such modification.
[0056] In one aspect, a method for making a bispecific antigen-binding protein is provided,
comprising exposing a first mouse as described herein to a first antigen of interest that
comprises a first epitope, exposing a second mouse as described herein to a second
antigen of interest that comprises a second epitope, allowing the first and the second mouse
                                                  11

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
to each mount immune responses to the antigens of interest, identifying in the first mouse a
first human heavy chain variable region that binds the first epitope of the first antigen of
interest, identifying in the second mouse a second human heavy chain variable region that
binds the second epitope of the second antigen of interest, making a first fully human heavy
chain gene that encodes a first heavy chain that binds the first epitope of the first antigen of
interest, making a second fully human heavy chain gene that encodes a second heavy chain
that binds the second epitope of the second antigen of interest, expressing the first heavy
chain and the second heavy chain in a cell that expresses a single fully human light chain
derived from a human VK1-39 or a human VW3-20 gene segment to form a bispecific
antigen-binding protein, and isolating the bispecific antigen-binding protein.
[0057] In one embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are not identical.
[0058] In one embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are identical, and the
first epitope and the second epitope are not identical. In one embodiment, binding of the
first heavy chain variable region to the first epitope does not block binding of the second
heavy chain variable region to the second epitope.
[0059] In one embodiment, the first antigen is selected from a soluble antigen and a cell
surface antigen (e.g., a tumor antigen), and the second antigen comprises a cell surface
receptor. In a specific embodiment, the cell surface receptor is an immunoglobulin receptor.
In a specific embodiment, the immunoglobulin receptor is an Fc receptor. In one
embodiment, the first antigen and the second antigen are the same cell surface receptor,
and binding of the first heavy chain to the first epitope does not block binding of the second
heavy chain to the second epitope.
[0060] In one embodiment, the light chain variable domain of the light chain comprises 2 to
5 somatic mutations. In one embodiment, the light chain variable domain is a somatically
mutated cognate light chain expressed in a B cell of the first or the second immunized
mouse with either the first or the second heavy chain variable domain.
[0061] In one embodiment, the first fully human heavy chain bears an amino acid
modification that reduces its affinity to protein A, and he second fully human heavy chain
does not comprise a modification that reduces its affinity to protein A.
[0062] In one aspect, an antibody or a bispecific antibody comprising a human heavy chain
variable domain made in accordance with the invention is provided. In another aspect, use
of a mouse as described herein to make a fully human antibody or a fully human bispecific
antibody is provided.
[0063]Any of the embodiments and aspects described herein can be used in conjunction
with one another, unless otherwise indicated or apparent from the context. Other
                                                  19

   WO 2011/097603                                                              PCT/US2011/023971
embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the ensuing
description.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0064] This invention is not limited to particular methods, and experimental conditions
described, as such methods and conditions may vary. It is also to be understood that the
terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is
not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present invention is defined by the claims.
[0065] Unless defined otherwise, all terms and phrases used herein include the meanings
that the terms and phrases have attained in the art, unless the contrary is clearly indicated or
clearly apparent from the context in which the term or phrase is used. Although any
methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the
practice or testing of the present invention, particular methods and materials are now
described. All publications mentioned are hereby incorporated by reference.
[0066] The term "antibody", as used herein, includes immunoglobulin molecules comprising
four polypeptide chains, two heavy (H) chains and two light (L) chains inter-connected by
disulfide bonds. Each heavy chain comprises a heavy chain variable (VH) region and a
heavy chain constant region (CH). The heavy chain constant region comprises three
domains, CH1, CH2 and CH3. Each light chain comprises a light chain variable (VL) region
and a light chain constant region (CL). The VH and VL regions can be further subdivided into
regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity determining regions (CDR), interspersed
with regions that are more conserved, termed framework regions (FR). Each VH and VL
comprises three CDRs and four FRs, arranged from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in
the following order: FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4 (heavy chain CDRs may be
abbreviated as HCDR1, HCDR2 and HCDR3; light chain CDRs may be abbreviated as
LCDR1, LCDR2 and LCDR3. The term "high affinity" antibody refers to an antibody that has
a KD with respect to its target epitope about of 109 M or lower (e.g., about 1 x 10~9 M, 1 x 10
'0 M, 1 x 1011 M, or about 1 x   1012   M). In one embodiment, KD is measured by surface
plasmon resonance, e.g., BIACORE TM; in another embodiment, KD is measured by ELISA.
[0067] The phrase "bispecific antibody" includes an antibody capable of selectively binding
two or more epitopes. Bispecific antibodies generally comprise two nonidentical heavy
chains, with each heavy chain specifically binding a different epitope-either on two different
molecules (e.g., different epitopes on two different immunogens) or on the same molecule
(e.g., different epitopes on the same immunogen). If a bispecific antibody is capable of
selectively binding two different epitopes (a first epitope and a second epitope), the affinity of
the first heavy chain for the first epitope will generally be at least one to two or three or four
                                                  13

    WO 2011/097603                                                              PCT/US2011/023971
or more orders of magnitude lower than the affinity of the first heavy chain for the second
epitope, and vice versa. Epitopes specifically bound by the bispecific antibody can be on the
same or a different target (e.g., on the same or a different protein). Bispecific antibodies can
be made, for example, by combining heavy chains that recognize different epitopes of the
same immunogen. For example, nucleic acid sequences encoding heavy chain variable
sequences that recognize different epitopes of the same immunogen can be fused to nucleic
acid sequences encoding the same or different heavy chain constant regions, and such
sequences can be expressed in a cell that expresses an immunoglobulin light chain. A
typical bispecific antibody has two heavy chains each having three heavy chain CDRs,
followed by (N-terminal to C-terminal) a CH1 domain, a hinge, a CH2 domain, and a CH3
domain, and an immunoglobulin light chain that either does not confer epitope-binding
specificity but that can associate with each heavy chain, or that can associate with each
heavy chain and that can bind one or more of the epitopes bound by the heavy chain
epitope-binding regions, or that can associate with each heavy chain and enable binding or
one or both of the heavy chains to one or both epitopes.
[0068] The term "cell" includes any cell that is suitable for expressing a recombinant nucleic
acid sequence. Cells include those of prokaryotes and eukaryotes (single-cell or multiple
cell), bacterial cells (e.g., strains of E. coli, Bacillus spp., Streptomyces spp., etc.),
mycobacteria cells, fungal cells, yeast cells (e.g., S. cerevisiae, S. pombe, P. pastoris, P.
methanolica, etc.), plant cells, insect cells (e.g., SF-9, SF-21, baculovirus-infected insect
cells, Trichoplusia ni, etc.), non-human animal cells, human cells, or cell fusions such as, for
example, hybridomas or quadromas. In some embodiments, the cell is a human, monkey,
ape, hamster, rat, or mouse cell. In some embodiments, the cell is eukaryotic and is
selected from the following cells: CHO (e.g., CHO K1, DXB-1 1 CHO, Veggie-CHO), COS
(e.g., COS-7), retinal cell, Vero, CV1, kidney (e.g., HEK293, 293 EBNA, MSR 293, MDCK,
HaK, BHK), HeLa, HepG2, W138, MRC 5, Colo205, HB 8065, HL-60, (e.g., BHK21), Jurkat,
Daudi, A431 (epidermal), CV-1, U937, 3T3, L cell, C127 cell, SP2/0, NS-0, MMT 060562,
Sertoli cell, BRL 3A cell, HT1 080 cell, myeloma cell, tumor cell, and a cell line derived from
an aforementioned cell. In some embodiments, the cell comprises one or more viral genes,
e.g., a retinal cell that expresses a viral gene (e.g., a PER.C6      TM cell).
[0069] The phrase "complementarity determining region," or the term "CDR," includes an
amino acid sequence encoded by a nucleic acid sequence of an organism's immunoglobulin
genes that normally (i.e., in a wild-type animal) appears between two framework regions in a
variable region of a light or a heavy chain of an immunoglobulin molecule (e.g., an antibody
or a T cell receptor). A CDR can be encoded by, for example, a germline sequence or a
rearranged or unrearranged sequence, and, for example, by a naive or a mature B cell or a
T cell. A CDR can be somatically mutated (e.g., vary from a sequence encoded in an
                                                    14

    WO 2011/097603                                                            PCT/US2011/023971
animal's germline), humanized, and/or modified with amino acid substitutions, additions, or
deletions. In some circumstances (e.g., for a CDR3), CDRs can be encoded by two or more
sequences (e.g., germline sequences) that are not contiguous (e.g., in an unrearranged
nucleic acid sequence) but are contiguous in a B cell nucleic acid sequence, e.g., as the
result of splicing or connecting the sequences (e.g., V-D-J recombination to form a heavy
chain CDR3).
 [0070] The term "conservative," when used to describe a conservative amino acid
substitution, includes substitution of an amino acid residue by another amino acid residue
having a side chain R group with similar chemical properties (e.g., charge or hydrophobicity).
 In general, a conservative amino acid substitution will not substantially change the functional
properties of interest of a protein, for example, the ability of a variable region to specifically
bind a target epitope with a desired affinity. Examples of groups of amino acids that have
side chains with similar chemical properties include aliphatic side chains such as glycine,
alanine, valine, leucine, and isoleucine; aliphatic-hydroxyl side chains such as serine and
threonine; amide-containing side chains such as asparagine and glutamine; aromatic side
chains such as phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan; basic side chains such as lysine,
arginine, and histidine; acidic side chains such as aspartic acid and glutamic acid; and,
sulfur-containing side chains such as cysteine and methionine. Conservative amino acids
substitution groups include, for example, valine/leucine/isoleucine, phenylalanine/tyrosine,
lysine/arginine, alanine/valine, glutamate/aspartate, and asparagine/glutamine. In some
embodiments, a conservative amino acid substitution can be substitution of any native
residue in a protein with alanine, as used in, for example, alanine scanning mutagenesis. In
some embodiments, a conservative substitution is made that has a positive value in the
PAM250 log-likelihood matrix disclosed in Gonnet et al. (1992) Exhaustive Matching of the
Entire Protein Sequence Database, Science 256:1443-45, hereby incorporated by reference.
In some embodiments, the substitution is a moderately conservative substitution wherein the
substitution has a nonnegative value in the PAM250 log-likelihood matrix.
[0071] in some embodiments, residue positions in an immunoglobulin light chain or heavy
chain differ by one or more conservative amino acid substitutions. In some embodiments,
residue positions in an immunoglobulin light chain or functional fragment thereof (e.g., a
fragment that allows expression and secretion from, e.g., a B cell) are not identical to a light
chain whose amino acid sequence is listed herein, but differs by one or more conservative
amino acid substitutions.
[0072] The phrase "epitope-binding protein" includes a protein having at least one CDR and
that is capable of selectively recognizing an epitope, e.g., is capable of binding an epitope
with a KD that is at about one micromolar or lower (e.g., a KD that is about 1 x 106 M, 1 x 10-7
                                                1 .9

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
M, 1 x 10-9 M, 1 x 10-9 M, I  x 10-1 M, 1 x 10-11 M, or about 1 x 1012 M). Therapeutic epitope
binding proteins (e.g., therapeutic antibodies) frequently require a KD that is in the nanomolar
or the picomolar range.
[0073] The phrase "functional fragment" includes fragments of epitope-binding proteins that
can be expressed, secreted, and specifically bind to an epitope with a KD in the micromolar,
nanomolar, or picomolar range. Specific recognition includes having a KD that is at least in
the micromolar range, the nanomolar range, or the picomolar range.
[0074] The term "germline" includes reference to an immunoglobulin nucleic acid sequence
in a non-somatically mutated cell, e.g., a non-somatically mutated B cell or pre-B cell or
hematopoietic cell.
[0075] The phrase "heavy chain," or "immunoglobulin heavy chain" includes an
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region sequence from any organism. Heavy chain
variable domains include three heavy chain CDRs and four FR regions, unless otherwise
specified. Fragments of heavy chains include CDRs, CDRs and FRs, and combinations
thereof. A typical heavy chain has, following the variable domain (from N-terminal to C
terminal), a CH1 domain, a hinge, a CH2 domain, and a CH3 domain. A functional fragment
of a heavy chain includes a fragment that is capable of specifically recognizing an epitope
(e.g., recognizing the epitope with a KD in the micromolar, nanomolar, or picomolar range),
that is capable of expressing and secreting from a cell, and that comprises at least one
CDR.
[0076] The term "identity" when used in connection with sequence, includes identity as
determined by a number of different algorithms known in the art that can be used to
measure nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence identity. In some embodiments described
herein, identities are determined using a ClustalW v. 1.83 (slow) alignment employing an
open gap penalty of 10.0, an extend gap penalty of 0.1, and using a Gonnet similarity matrix
(MacVector TM 10.0.2, MacVector Inc., 2008). The length of the sequences compared with
respect to identity of sequences will depend upon the particular sequences, but in the case
of a light chain constant domain, the length should contain sequence of sufficient length to
fold into a light chain constant domain that is capable of self-association to form a canonical
light chain constant domain, e.g., capable of forming two beta sheets comprising beta
strands and capable of interacting with at least one CH1 domain of a human or a mouse. In
the case of a CH1 domain, the length of sequence should contain sequence of sufficient
length to fold into a CH1 domain that is capable of forming two beta sheets comprising beta
strands and capable of interacting with at least one light chain constant domain of a mouse
or a human.
                                                 16

    WO 2011/097603                                                            PCT/US2011/023971
[0077] The phrase "immunoglobulin molecule" includes two immunoglobulin heavy chains
and two immunoglobulin light chains. The heavy chains may be identical or different, and
the light chains may be identical or different.
[0078] The phrase "light chain" includes an immunoglobulin light chain sequence from any
organism, and unless otherwise specified includes human       K and ?. light chains and a VpreB,
as well as surrogate light chains. Light chain variable (VL) domains typically include three
light chain CDRs and four framework (FR) regions, unless otherwise specified. Generally, a
full-length light chain includes, from amino terminus to carboxyl terminus, a VL domain that
includes FR1-CDR1-FR2-CDR2-FR3-CDR3-FR4, and a light chain constant domain. Light
chains include those, e.g., that do not selectively bind either a first or a second epitope
selectively bound by the epitope-binding protein in which they appear. Light chains also
include those that bind and recognize, or assist the heavy chain with binding and
recognizing, one or more epitopes selectively bound by the epitope-binding protein in which
they appear. Common light chains are those derived from a human VK1-39JK5 gene
segment or a human VK3-2OJK1 gene segment, and include somatically mutated (e.g.,
affinity matured) versions of the same.
[0079] The phrase "micromolar range" is intended to mean 1-999 micromolar; the phrase
"nanomolar range" is intended to mean 1-999 nanomolar; the phrase "picomolar range" is
intended to mean 1-999 picomolar.
[0080] The phrase "somatically mutated" includes reference to a nucleic acid sequence from
a B cell that has undergone class-switching, wherein the nucleic acid sequence of an
immunoglobulin variable region (e.g., a heavy chain variable domain or including a heavy
chain CDR or FR sequence) in the class-switched B cell is not identical to the nucleic acid
sequence in the B cell prior to class-switching, such as, for example, a difference in a CDR
or framework nucleic acid sequence between a B cell that has not undergone class
switching and a B cell that has undergone class-switching. "Somatically mutated" includes
reference to nucleic acid sequences from affinity-matured B cells that are not identical to
corresponding immunoglobulin variable region sequences in B cells that are not affinity
matured (i.e., sequences in the genome of germline cells). The phrase "somatically
mutated" also includes reference to an immunoglobulin variable region nucleic acid
sequence from a B cell after exposure of the B cell to an epitope of interest, wherein the
nucleic acid sequence differs from the corresponding nucleic acid sequence prior to
exposure of the B cell to the epitope of interest. The phrase "somatically mutated" refers to
sequences from antibodies that have been generated in an animal, e.g., a mouse having
human immunoglobulin variable region nucleic acid sequences, in response to an
                                                17

     WO 2011/097603                                                            PCT/US2011/023971
immunogen challenge, and that result from the selection processes inherently operative in
such an animal.
 [0081]The term "unrearranged," with reference to a nucleic acid sequence, includes nucleic
acid sequences that exist in the germline of an animal cell.
[0082] The phrase "variable domain" includes an amino acid sequence of an
immunoglobulin light or heavy chain (modified as desired) that comprises the following
amino acid regions, in sequence from N-terminal to C-terminal (unless otherwise indicated):
FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4.
Common Light Chain
[0083] Prior efforts to make useful multispecific epitope-binding proteins, e.g., bispecific
antibodies, have been hindered by variety of problems that frequently share a common
paradigm: in vitro selection or manipulation of sequences to rationally engineer, or to
engineer through trial-and-error, a suitable format for pairing a heterodimeric bispecific
human immunoglobulin. Unfortunately, most if not all of the in vitro engineering approaches
provide largely ad hoc fixes that are suitable, if at all, for individual molecules. On the other
hand, in vivo methods for employing complex organisms to select appropriate pairings that
are capable of leading to human therapeutics have not been realized.
[0084] Generally, native mouse sequences are frequently not a good source for human
therapeutic sequences. For at least that reason, generating mouse heavy chain
immunoglobulin variable regions that pair with a common human light chain is of limited
practical utility. More in vitro engineering efforts would be expended in a trial-and-error
process to try to humanize the mouse heavy chain variable sequences while hoping to retain
epitope specificity and affinity while maintaining the ability to couple with the common human
light chain, with uncertain outcome. At the end of such a process, the final product may
maintain some of the specificity and affinity, and associate with the common light chain, but
ultimately immunogenicity in a human would likely remain a profound risk.
[0085] Therefore, a suitable mouse for making human therapeutics would include a suitably
large repertoire of human heavy chain variable region gene segments in place of
endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene segments. The human heavy chain
variable region gene segments should be able to rearrange and recombine with an
endogenous mouse heavy chain constant domain to form a reverse chimeric heavy chain
(i.e., a heavy chain comprising a human variable domain and a mouse constant region).
The heavy chain should be capable of class switching and somatic hypermutation so that a
suitably large repertoire of heavy chain variable domains are available for the mouse to
                                                 IR

    WO 2011/097603                                                              PCT/US2011/023971
select one that can associate with the limited repertoire of human light chain variable
regions.
[0086]A mouse that selects a common light chain for a plurality of heavy chains has a
practical utility. In various embodiments, antibodies that express in a mouse that can only
express a common light chain will have heavy chains that can associate and express with an
identical or substantially identical light chain. This is particularly useful in making bispecific
antibodies. For example, such a mouse can be immunized with a first immunogen to
generate a B cell that expresses an antibody that specifically binds a first epitope. The
mouse (or a mouse genetically the same) can be immunized with a second immunogen to
generate a B cell that expresses an antibody that specifically binds the second epitope.
Variable heavy regions can be cloned from the B cells and expresses with the same heavy
chain constant region, and the same light chain, and expressed in a cell to make a bispecific
antibody, wherein the light chain component of the bispecific antibody has been selected by
a mouse to associate and express with the light chain component.
[0087] The inventors have engineered a mouse for generating immunoglobulin light chains
that will suitably pair with a rather diverse family of heavy chains, including heavy chains
whose variable regions depart from germline sequences, e.g., affinity matured or somatically
mutated variable regions. In various embodiments, the mouse is devised to pair human light
chain variable domains with human heavy chain variable domains that comprise somatic
mutations, thus enabling a route to high affinity binding proteins suitable for use as human
therapeutics.
[0088] The genetically engineered mouse, through the long and complex process of
antibody selection within an organism, makes biologically appropriate choices in pairing a
diverse collection of human heavy chain variable domains with a limited number of human
light chain options. In order to achieve this, the mouse is engineered to present a limited
number of human light chain variable domain options in conjunction with a wide diversity of
human heavy chain variable domain options. Upon challenge with an immunogen, the
mouse maximizes the number of solutions in its repertoire to develop an antibody to the
immunogen, limited largely or solely by the number or light chain options in its repertoire. In
various embodiments, this includes allowing the mouse to achieve suitable and compatible
somatic mutations of the light chain variable domain that will nonetheless be compatible with
a relatively large variety of human heavy chain variable domains, including in particular
somatically mutated human heavy chain variable domains.
[0089] To achieve a limited repertoire of light chain options, the mouse is engineered to
render nonfunctional or substantially nonfunctional its ability to make, or rearrange, a native
mouse light chain variable domain. This can be achieved, e.g., by deleting the mouse's light
                                                  19

    WO 2011/097603                                                             PCT/US2011/023971
chain variable region gene segments. The endogenous mouse locus can then be modified
by an exogenous suitable human light chain variable region gene segment of choice,
operably linked to the endogenous mouse light chain constant domain, in a manner such
that the exogenous human variable region gene segments can rearrange and recombine
with the endogenous mouse light chain constant region gene and form a rearranged reverse
chimeric light chain gene (human variable, mouse constant). In various embodiments, the
light chain variable region is capable of being somatically mutated. In various embodiments,
to maximize ability of the light chain variable region to acquire somatic mutations, the
appropriate enhancer(s) is retained in the mouse. For example, in modifying a mouse          x
locus to replace endogenous mouse K variable region gene segments with human K variable
region gene segments, the mouse       K intronic enhancer and mouse      K 3' enhancer are
functionally maintained, or undisrupted.
[0090]A genetically engineered mouse is provided that expresses a limited repertoire of
reverse chimeric (human variable, mouse constant) light chains associated with a diversity
of reverse chimeric (human variable, mouse constant) heavy chains. In various
embodiments, the endogenous mouse          K light chain variable region gene segments are
deleted and replaced with a single (or two) human light chain variable region gene
segments, operably linked to the endogenous mouse           K constant region gene. In
embodiments for maximizing somatic hypermutation of the human light chain variable region
gene segments, the mouse K intronic enhancer and the mouse           K  3' enhancer are
maintained. In various embodiments, the mouse also comprises a nonfunctional k light
chain locus, or a deletion thereof or a deletion that renders the locus unable to make a k
light chain.
[0091]A genetically engineered mouse is provided that, in various embodiments, comprises
a light chain variable region locus lacking an endogenous mouse light chain variable gene
segment and comprising a human variable gene segment, in one embodiment a rearranged
human V/J sequence, operably linked to a mouse constant region, wherein the locus is
capable of undergoing somatic hypermutation, and wherein the locus expresses a light chain
comprising the human V/J sequence linked to a mouse constant region. Thus, in various
embodiments, the locus comprises a mouse          K  3' enhancer, which is correlated with a
normal, or wild-type, level of somatic hypermutation.
[0092] The genetically engineered mouse in various embodiments when immunized with an
antigen of interest generates B cells that exhibit a diversity of rearrangements of human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions that express and function with one or with two
rearranged light chains, including embodiments where the one or two light chains comprise
human light chain variable regions that comprise, e.g., 1 to 5 somatic mutations. In various
                                                   20

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
embodiments, the human light chains so expressed are capable of associating and
expressing with any human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region expressed in the
mouse.
Epitope-binding Proteins Binding More Than One Epitope
[0093]The compositions and methods of described herein can be used to make binding
proteins that bind more than one epitope with high affinity, e.g., bispecific antibodies.
Advantages of the invention include the ability to select suitably high binding (e.g., affinity
matured) heavy chain immunoglobulin chains each of which will associate with a single light
chain.
[0094] Synthesis and expression of bispecific binding proteins has been problematic, in part
due to issues associated with identifying a suitable light chain that can associate and
express with two different heavy chains, and in part due to isolation issues. The methods
and compositions described herein allow for a genetically modified mouse to select, through
otherwise natural processes, a suitable light chain that can associate and express with more
than one heavy chain, including heavy chains that are somatically mutated (e.g., affinity
matured). Human VL and VH sequences from suitable B cells of immunized mice as
described herein that express affinity matured antibodies having reverse chimeric heavy
chains (i.e., human variable and mouse constant) can be identified and cloned in frame in an
expression vector with a suitable human constant region gene sequence (e.g., a human
IgG1). Two such constructs can be prepared, wherein each construct encodes a human
heavy chain variable domain that binds a different epitope. One of the human VLs (e.g.,
human V1-39JK5 or human VK3-20Jx1), in germline sequence or from a B cell wherein the
sequence has been somatically mutated, can be fused in frame to a suitable human
constant region gene (e.g., a human K constant gene). These three fully-human heavy and
light constructs can be placed in a suitable cell for expression. The cell will express two
major species: a homodimeric heavy chain with the identical light chain, and a
heterodimeric heavy chain with the identical light chain. To allow for a facile separation of
these major species, one of the heavy chains is modified to omit a Protein A-binding
determinant, resulting in a differential affinity of a homodimeric binding protein from a
heterodimeric binding protein. Compositions and methods that address this issue are
described in USSN 12/832,838, filed 25 June 20010, entitled "Readily Isolated Bispecific
Antibodies with Native Immunoglobulin Format," published as US 2010/0331527A1, hereby
incorporated by reference.
                                                  21

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
 [0095] In one aspect, an epitope-binding protein as described herein is provided, wherein
human VL and VH sequences are derived from mice described herein that have been
immunized with an antigen comprising an epitope of interest.
[0096] In one embodiment, an epitope-binding protein is provided that comprises a first and
a second polypeptide, the first polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a first
epitope-binding region that selectively binds a first epitope, followed by a constant region
that comprises a first CH3 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG4, and a
combination thereof; and, a second polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a
second epitope-binding region that selectively binds a second epitope, followed by a
constant region that comprises a second CH3 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1,
IgG2, igG4, and a combination thereof, wherein the second CH3 region comprises a
modification that reduces or eliminates binding of the second CH3 domain to protein A.
[0097] In one embodiment, the second CH3 region comprises an H95R modification (by
IMGT exon numbering; H435R by EU numbering). In another embodiment, the second CH3
region further comprises a Y96F modification (IMGT; Y436F by EU).
[0098] In one embodiment, the second CH3 region is from a modified human IgG1, and
further comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of D16E, L18M, N44S,
K52N, V57M, and V821 (IMGT; D356E, L358M, N384S, K392N, V397M, and V4221 by EU).
[0099] In one embodiment, the second CH3 region is from a modified human igG2, and
further comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of N44S, K52N, and
V821 (IMGT; N384S, K392N, and V4221 by EU).
[00100]         In one embodiment, the second CH3 region is from a modified human IgG4,
and further comprises a modification selected from the group consisting of Q15R, N44S,
K52N, V57M, R69K, E79Q, and V821 (IMGT; Q355R, N384S, K392N, V397M, R409K,
E419Q, and V4221 by EU).
[00101]         One method for making an epitope-binding protein that binds more than one
epitope is to immunize a first mouse in accordance with the invention with an antigen that
comprises a first epitope of interest, wherein the mouse comprises an endogenous
immunoglobulin light chain variable region locus that does not contain an endogenous
mouse VL that is capable of rearranging and forming a light chain, wherein at the
endogenous mouse immunglobulin light chain variable region locus is a single human VL
gene segment operably linked to the mouse endogenous light chain constant region gene,
and the human VL gene segment is selected from a human VK1-39JK5 and a human VK3
20JK1,  and the endogenous mouse VH gene segments have been replaced in whole or in
part with human VH gene segments, such that immunoglobulin heavy chains made by the
mouse are solely or substantially heavy chains that comprise human variable domains and
                                                99

    WO 2011/097603                                                            PCT/US2011/023971
mouse constant domains. When immunized, such a mouse will make a reverse chimeric
antibody, comprising only one of two human light chain variable domains (e.g., one of
human VK1-39JK5 or human Vx3-20JK1). Once a B cell is identified that encodes a VH that
binds the epitope of interest, the nucleotide sequence of the VH (and, optionally, the VL) can
be retrieved (e.g., by PCR) and cloned into an expression construct in frame with a suitable
human immunoglobulin constant domain. This process can be repeated to identify a second
VH domain that binds a second epitope, and a second VH gene sequence can be retrieved
and cloned into an expression vector in frame to a second suitable immunoglobulin constant
domain. The first and the second immunoglobulin constant domains can the same or
different isotype, and one of the immunoglobulin constant domains (but not the other) can be
modified as described herein or in US 2010/0331527A1, and epitope-binding protein can be
expressed in a suitable cell and isolated based on its differential affinity for Protein A as
compared to a homodimeric epitope-binding protein, e.g., as described in US
2010/0331527A1.
[00102]          In one embodiment, a method for making a bispecific epitope-binding protein
is provided, comprising identifying a first affinity-matured (e.g., comprising one or more
somatic hypermutations) human VH nucleotide sequence (VH1) from a mouse as described
herein, identifying a second affinity-matured (e.g., comprising one or more somatic
hypermutations) human VH nucleotide sequence (VH2) from a mouse as described herein,
cloning VH1 in frame with a human heavy chain lacking a Protein A-determinant modification
as described in US 2010/0331527A1 for form heavy chain 1 (HC1), cloning VH2 in frame
with a human heavy chain comprising a Protein A-determinant as described in US
2010/0331527A1 to form heavy chain 2 (HC2), introducing an expression vector comprising
HC1 and the same or a different expression vector comprising HC2 into a cell, wherein the
cell also expresses a human immunoglobulin light chain that comprises a human VK1
39/human JK5 or a human Vx3-20/human JK1 fused to a human light chain constant
domain, allowing the cell to express a bispecific epitope-binding protein comprising a VH
domain encoded by VH1 and a VH domain encoded by VH2, and isolating the bispecific
epitope-binding protein based on its differential ability to bind Protein A as compared with a
monospecific homodimeric epitope-binding protein. In a specific embodiment, HC1 is an
IgG1, and HC2 is an IgG1 that comprises the modification H95R (IMGT; H435R by EU) and
further comprises the modification Y96F (IMGT; Y436F by EU). In one embodiment, the VH
domain encoded by VH1, the VH domain encoded by VH2, or both, are somatically mutated.
                                                 23

    WO 2011/097603                                                             PCT/US2011/023971
Human VH Genes That Express with a Common Human VL
[00103]           A variety of human variable regions from affinity-matured antibodies raised
against four different antigens were expressed with either their cognate light chain, or at
least one of a human light chain selected from human VK1-39JK5, human VK3-20JK1, or
human VpreBJk5 (see Example 1). For antibodies to each of the antigens, somatically
mutated high affinity heavy chains from different gene families paired successfully with
rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 regions and were secreted from
cells expressing the heavy and light chains. For VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1, VH domains
derived from the following human VH families expressed favorably: 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2-5, 3-7,
3-9, 3-11, 3-13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48, 4-31, 4-39, 4-59, 5-51, and 6-1. Thus, a
mouse that is engineered to express a limited repertoire of human VL domains from one or
both of VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 will generate a diverse population of somatically mutated
human VH domains from a VH locus modified to replace mouse VH gene segments with
human VH gene segments.
[00104]           Mice genetically engineered to express reverse chimeric (human variable,
mouse constant) immunoglobulin heavy chains associated with a single rearranged light
chain (e.g., a VK1-39/J or a VK3-20/J), when immunized with an antigen of interest,
generated B cells that comprised a diversity of human V segment rearrangements and
expressed a diversity of high-affinity antigen-specific antibodies with diverse properties with
respect to their ability to block binding of the antigen to its ligand, and with respect to their
ability to bind variants of the antigen (see Examples 5 through 10).
[00105]           Thus, the mice and methods described herein are useful in making and
selecting human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains, including somatically
mutated human heavy chain variable domains, that result from a diversity of
rearrangements, that exhibit a wide variety of affinities (including exhibiting a KD of about a
nanomolar or less), a wide variety of specificities (including binding to different epitopes of
the same antigen), and that associate and express with the same or substantially the same
human immunoglobulin light chain variable region.
[00106]           The following examples are provided so as to describe to those of ordinary
skill in the art how to make and use methods and compositions of the invention, and are not
intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Efforts have been
made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts, temperature, etc.)
but some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated
otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is average molecular weight,
temperature is indicated in Celsius, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
                                                 24

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
EXAMPLES
Example 1. Identification of human heavy chain variable regions that associate with
selected human light chain variable regions
[00107]         An in vitro expression system was constructed to determine if a single
rearranged human germline light chain could be co-expressed with human heavy chains
from antigen specific human antibodies.
[00108]         Methods for generating human antibodies in genetically modified mice are
known (see e.g., US 6,596,541, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, VELOCIMMUNE@).                The
VELOCIMMUNE@ technology involves generation of a genetically modified mouse having a
genome comprising human heavy and light chain variable regions operably linked to
endogenous mouse constant region loci such that the mouse produces an antibody
comprising a human variable region and a mouse constant region in response to antigenic
stimulation. The DNA encoding the variable regions of the heavy and light chains of the
antibodies produced from a VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse are fully human. Initially, high affinity
chimeric antibodies are isolated having a human variable region and a mouse constant
region. As described below, the antibodies are characterized and selected for desirable
characteristics, including affinity, selectivity, epitope, etc. The mouse constant regions are
replaced with a desired human constant region to generate a fully human antibody
containing a non-IgM isotype, for example, wild-type or modified IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4.
While the constant region selected may vary according to specific use, high affinity antigen
binding and target specificity characteristics reside in the variable region.
[00109]         A VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse was immunized with a growth factor that
promotes angiogenesis (Antigen C) and antigen-specific human antibodies were isolated
and sequenced for V gene usage using standard techniques recognized in the art. Selected
antibodies were cloned onto human heavy and light chain constant regions and 69 heavy
chains were selected for pairing with one of three human light chains: (1) the cognate K light
chain linked to a human i constant region, (2) a rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5
linked to a human   K constant region, or (3) a rearranged human germline Vx3-20JK1 linked
to a human i constant region. Each heavy chain and light chain pair were co-transfected in
CHO-K1 cells using standard techniques. Presence of antibody in the supernatant was
detected by anti-human IgG in an ELISA assay. Antibody titer (ng/ml) was determined for
each heavy chain/light chain pair and titers with the different rearranged germline light
chains were compared to the titers obtained with the parental antibody molecule (i.e., heavy
chain paired with cognate light chain) and percent of native titer was calculated (Table 1).

   WO 2011/097603                                                    PCT/US2011/023971
VH: Heavy chain variable gene. ND: no expression detected under current experimental
conditions.
[00110]
                                          Table 1
                          Antibody Titer (ng/ml)         Percent of Native Titer
                 Cognate LC     Vicl-39Jic5  Vi3-2OJcl   Vicl-39Jc5 Vic3-20JK1
         3-15         63             23           11         36.2          17.5
           1-2       103             53           ND         51.1
          3-23        83             60           23         72.0         27.5
          3-33        15             77           ND        499.4
         4-31         22             69            17       309.4         76.7
          3-7         53             35           28         65.2         53.1
            -         22             32            19       148.8         89.3
          1-24         3             13           ND        455.2
          3-33         1             47           ND       5266.7
          3-33        58             37           ND         63.1
            -        110             67            18        60.6          16.5
          3-23       127            123           21         96.5          16.3
          3-33        28             16            2         57.7           7.1
          3-23        32             50           38        157.1         119.4
            -          18            45            18       254.3         101.7
           3-9          1            30           23       2508.3        1900.0
          3-11         12            26            6        225.9         48.3
           1-8         16            ND            13          -           81.8
          3-33        54             81            10       150.7          19.1
            -         34              9           ND         25.9
          3-20         7             14           54        203.0         809.0
          3-33         19            38           ND        200.5
          3-11        48             ND          203           -         423.6
            -          11            23             8       212.7          74.5
          3-33        168           138           182        82.0         108.2
          3-20        117            67           100        57.5          86.1
          3-23        86             61           132        70.7         154.1
          3-33        20             12           33         60.9         165.3
         4-31         69             92           52        133.8          75.0
          3-23        87             78           62         89.5         71.2
           1-2        31             82           51        263.0         164.6
          3-23        53             93           151       175.4         285.4

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
             -             11               8            17         75.7         151.4
          3-33            114              36           27          31.6          23.4
          3-15            73               39           44          53.7          59.6
          3-33              1              34            16       5600.0        2683.3
           3-9            58              112           57         192.9          97.6
          3-33            67               20           105         30.1         157.0
           3-33           34               21           24          62.7          70.4
           3-20            10              49           91        478.4          888.2
          3-33            66               32           25         48.6           38.2
           3-23            17              59           56         342.7         329.8
             -            58              108            19        184.4          32.9
             -            68               54           20          79.4          29.9
           3-33           42               35            32         83.3          75.4
             -            29               19            13         67.1          43.9
            3-9           24               34           29         137.3         118.4
         3-30/33           17              33             7        195.2          43.1
            3-7            25              70            74        284.6         301.6
           3-33            87             127           ND         145.1
            6-1           28               56           ND         201.8
           3-33            56              39            20         69.9          36.1
           3-33            10              53             1        520.6           6.9
           3-33            20              67            10        337.2          52.3
           3-33            11              36            18        316.8         158.4
           3-23            12              42            32        356.8         272.9
           3-33            66              95            15        143.6          22.5
           3-15            55              68           ND         123.1
             -             32              68             3        210.9          10.6
            1-8            28              48           ND         170.9
           3-33           124             192            21        154.3          17.0
           3-33             0             113           ND       56550.0
           3-33            10             157             1       1505.8          12.5
           3-33             6              86            15       1385.5         243.5
           3-23            70             115            22        163.5          31.0
            3-7            71             117            21        164.6          29.6
           3-33            82             100            47        122.7          57.1
            3-7           124             161            41        130.0          33.5
[00111]          In a similar experiment, VELOCIMMUNE@ mice were immunized with several
different antigens and selected heavy chains of antigen specific human antibodies were
tested for their ability to pair with different rearranged human germline light chains (as
                                                   97

   WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
described above). The antigens used in this experiment included an enzyme involved in
cholesterol homeostasis (Antigen A), a serum hormone involved in regulating glucose
homeostasis (Antigen B), a growth factor that promotes angiogenesis (Antigen C) and a cell
surface receptor (Antigen D). Antigen specific antibodies were isolated from mice of each
immunization group and the heavy chain and light chain variable regions were cloned and
sequenced. From the sequence of the heavy and light chains, V gene usage was
determined and selected heavy chains were paired with either their cognate light chain or a
rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 region. Each heavy/light chain pair was co
transfected in CHO-K1 cells and the presence of antibody in the supernatant was detected
by anti-human igG in an ELISA assay. Antibody titer (pg/ml) was determined for each heavy
chain/light chain pairing and titers with the different rearranged human germline light chains
were compared to the titers obtained with the parental antibody molecule (i.e., heavy chain
paired with cognate light chain) and percent of native titer was calculated (Table 2). VH:
Heavy chain variable gene. Vi: K light chain variable gene. ND: no expression detected
under current experimental conditions.
[00112]
              _  _                            Table 2
                                                       Titer (pgrnl)           Percent of
    Antigen     Antibody     VH       VA             e               VH +      Native Titer
                                            VH Alone VH + VK Vi1-39Jr5
                   320      1-18    2-30       0.3         3.1        2.0           66
                   321       2-5    2-28       0.4         0.4        1.9          448
                   334       2-5    2-28       0.4         2.7        2.0           73
         A         313      3-13    3-15       0.5         0.7        4.5          670
                   316      3-23     4-1       0.3         0.2        4.1         2174
                   315      3-30     4-1       0.3         0.2        3.2         1327
                   318      4-59     1-17      0.3         4.6        4.0           86
                   257      3-13      1-5      0.4         3.1        3.2          104
                   283      3-13      1-5      0.4         5.4        3.7           69
                   637      3-13      1-5      0.4         4.3        3.0           70
                   638      3-13      1-5      0.4         4.1        3.3           82
         B         624      3-23     1-17      0.3         5.0        3.9           79
                   284      3-30     1-17      0.3         4.6        3.4           75
                   653      3-33     1-17      0.3         4.3        0.3            7
                   268      4-34     1-27      0.3         5.5        3.8           69
                   633      4-34     1-27      0.6         6.9        3.0           44
         C         730       3-7      1-5      0.3         1.1        2.8          249
                   728       3-7      1-5      0.3         2.0        3.2          157

    WO 2011/097603                                                        PCT/US2011/023971
                  691        3-9  3-20       0.3        2.8          3.1           109
                  749       3-33  3-15       0.3        3.8         2.3             62
                  750       3-33  1-16       0.3        3.0         2.8             92
                  724       3-33  1-17       0.3        2.3          3.4           151
                  706       3-33  1-16       0.3        3.6         3.0             84
                  744       1-18  1-12       0.4        5.1          3.0            59
                  696       3-11  1-16       0.4        3.0         2.9             97
                  685       3-13  3-20       0.3        0.5         3.4            734
                  732       3-15  1-17       0.3        4.5          3.2            72
                  694       3-15   1-5       0.4        5.2         2.9             55
                  743       3-23  1-12       0.3        3.2         0.3             10
                  742       3-23  2-28       0.4        4.2          3.1            74
                  693       3-23  1-12       0.5        4.2         4.0             94
                   136      3-23  2-28       0.4        5.0         2.7             55
                   155      3-30  1-16       0.4        1.0         2.2            221
                   163      3-30  1-16       0.3        0.6          3.0           506
                   171      3-30  1-16 1     0.3        1.0         2.8            295
                   145      3-43   1-5       0.4        4.4         2.9             65
                            3-48  3-11       0.3        1.7         2.6            155
         D         49
                   51       3-48  1-39       0.1        1.9          0.1             4
                   159       3-7  6-21       0.4        3.9          3.6            92
                   169       3-7  6-21       0.3        1.3          3.1           235
                   134       3-9   1-5       0.4        5.0         2.9             58
                   141      4-31  1-33       2.4        4.2         2.6             63
                   142      4-31  1-33       0.4        4.2          2.8            67
[00113]        The results obtained from these experiments demonstrate that somatically
mutated, high affinity heavy chains from different gene families are able to pair with
rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JKI regions and be secreted from the
cell as a normal antibody molecule. As shown in Table 1, antibody titer was increased for
about 61% (42 of 69) heavy chains when paired with the rearranged human VK1-39JK5 light
chain and about 29% (20 of 69) heavy chains when paired with the rearranged human VK3
20JK1 light chain as compared to the cognate light chain of the parental antibody. For about
20% (14 of 69) of the heavy chains, both rearranged human germline light chains conferred
an increase in expression as compared to the cognate light chain of the parental antibody.
As shown in Table 2, the rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 region conferred an
increase in expression of several heavy chains specific for a range of different classes of
antigens as compared to the cognate light chain for the parental antibodies. Antibody titer
was increased by more than two-fold for about 35% (15/43) of the heavy chains as

    WO 2011/097603                                                        PCT/US2011/023971
compared to the cognate light chain of the parental antibodies. For two heavy chains (315
and 316), the increase was greater than ten-fold as compared to the parental antibody.
Within all the heavy chains that showed increase expression relative to the cognate light
chain of the parental antibody, family three (VH3 ) heavy chains are over represented in
comparison to other heavy chain variable region gene families. This demonstrates a
favorable relationship of human VH3 heavy chains to pair with rearranged human germline
VK1-39JK5 and VK3-20JK1 light chains.
 Example 2. Generation of a Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain Locus
[00114]         Various rearranged human germline light chain targeting vectors were made
using VELOCIGENE@ technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela et al.
 (2003) High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution
expression analysis, Nature Biotech. 21(6):652-659) to modify mouse genomic Bacterial
Artificial Chromosome (BAC) clones 302g12 and 254m04 (Invitrogen). Using these two
BAC clones, genomic constructs were engineered to contain a single rearranged human
germline light chain region and inserted into an endogenous K light chain locus that was
previously modified to delete the endogenous K variable and joining gene segments.
A. Construction of Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain Targeting Vectors
[00115]         Three different rearranged human germline light chain regions were made
using standard molecular biology techniques recognized in the art. The human variable
gene segments used for constructing these three regions included rearranged human VK1
39JK5 sequence, a rearranged human VK3-20JK1 sequence and a rearranged human
VpreBJk5 sequence.
[00116]         A DNA segment containing exon 1 (encoding the leader peptide) and intron 1
of the mouse VK3-7 gene was made by de novo DNA synthesis (Integrated DNA
Technologies). Part of the 5' untranslated region up to a naturally occurring BIpI restriction
enzyme site was included. Exons of human VKl-39 and V<3-20 genes were PCR amplified
from human genomic BAC libraries. The forward primers had a 5' extension containing the
splice acceptor site of intron I of the mouse Vx3-7 gene. The reverse primer used for PCR
of the human VK1-39 sequence included an extension encoding human JK5, whereas the
reverse primer used for PCR of the human Vi3-20 sequence included an extension
encoding human JK1. The human VpreBJX5 sequence was made by de novo DNA
synthesis (Integrated DNA Technologies). A portion of the human JK-CK intron including the
splice donor site was PCR amplified from plasmid pBS-296-HA18-PIScel. The forward PCR

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
primer included an extension encoding part of either a human JK5, Ji1, or JX5 sequence.
The reverse primer included a PI-Scel site, which was previously engineered into the intron.
[00117]         The mouse VK3-7 exonl/intron 1, human variable light chain exons, and
human JK-CK intron fragments were sewn together by overlap extension PCR, digested with
Blpl and PI-Scel, and ligated into plasmid pBS-296-HA18-PiScel, which contained the
promoter from the human VK3-15 variable gene segment. A loxed hygromycin cassette
within plasmid pBS-296-HA18-PIScel was replaced with a FRTed hygromycin cassette
flanked by Notl and AscI sites. The NotI/PI-Scel fragment of this plasmid was ligated into
modified mouse BAC 254m04, which contained part of the mouse Ji-CK intron, the mouse
C   exon, and about 75 kb of genomic sequence downstream of the mouse K locus which
provided a 3' homology arm for homologous recombination in mouse ES cells. The
Notl/AscI fragment of this BAC was then ligated into modified mouse BAC 302g12, which
contained a FRTed neomycin cassette and about 23 kb of genomic sequence upstream of
the endogenous     K locus for homologous recombination in mouse ES cells.
B. Rearranged Human Germline Vicl-39Jic5 Targeting Vector (Figure 1)
[00118]         Restriction enzyme sites were introduced at the 5' and 3' ends of an
engineered light chain insert for cloning into a targeting vector: an AscI site at the 5' end and
a PI-Scel site at the 3' end. Within the 5' AscI site and the 3' PI-Scel site the targeting
construct from 5' to 3' included a 5' homology arm containing sequence 5' to the
endogenous mouse K light chain locus obtained from mouse BAC clone 302g12, a FRTed
neomycin resistance gene, an genomic sequence including the human VI<3-15 promoter, a
leader sequence of the mouse Vi<3-7 variable gene segment, a intron sequence of the
mouse VK3-7 variable gene segment, an open reading frame of a rearranged human
germline VK1-39Ji<5 region, a genomic sequence containing a portion of the human Ji<-C
intron, and a 3' homology arm containing sequence 3' of the endogenous mouse JK5 gene
segment obtained from mouse BAC clone 254m04 (Figure 1, middle). Genes and/or
sequences upstream of the endogenous mouse          K light chain locus and downstream of the
most 3'  JK gene segment (e.g., the endogenous 3' enhancer) were unmodified by the
targeting construct (see Figure 1). The sequence of the engineered human VK1-39JK5
locus is shown in SEQ ID NO:1.
[00119]         Targeted insertion of the rearranged human germline Vx1-39JK5 region into
BAC DNA was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers located at
sequences within the rearranged human germline light chain region. Briefly, the intron
sequence 3' to the mouse Vx3-7 leader sequence was confirmed with primers ULC-m1F
(AGGTGAGGGT ACAGATAAGT GTTATGAG; SEQ ID NO:2) and ULC-mlR

    WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
(TGACAAATGC CCTAATTATA GTGATCA; SEQ ID NO:3). The open reading frame of the
rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5 region was confirmed with primers 1633-h2F
(GGGCAAGTCA GAGCATTAGC A; SEQ ID NO:4) and 1633-h2R (TGCAAACTGG
ATGCAGCATA G; SEQ ID NO:5). The neomycin cassette was confirmed with primers neoF
(GGTGGAGAGG CTATTCGGC; SEQ ID NO:6) and neoR (GAACACGGCG GCATCAG;
SEQ ID NO:7). Targeted BAC DNA was then used to electroporate mouse ES cells to
created modified ES cells for generating chimeric mice that express a rearranged human
germline VK1-39JK5 region.
[00120]         Positive ES cell clones were confirmed by TAQMAN T M screening and
karyotyping using probes specific for the engineered VK1-39JK5 light chain region inserted
into the endogenous locus. Briefly, probe neoP (TGGGCACAAC AGACAATCGG CTG;
SEQ ID NO:8) which binds within the neomycin marker gene, probe ULC-m1 P
(CCATTATGAT GCTCCATGCC TCTCTGTTC; SEQ ID NO:9) which binds within the intron
sequence 3' to the mouse VK3-7 leader sequence, and probe 1633h2P (ATCAGCAGAA
ACCAGGGAAA GCCCCT; SEQ ID NO:10) which binds within the rearranged human
germline Vx1-39JK5 open reading frame. Positive ES cell clones were then used to implant
female mice to give rise to a litter of pups expressing the germline VK1-39JK5 light chain
region.
[00121]         Alternatively, ES cells bearing the rearranged human germline VK1-39JK5
light chain region are transfected with a constuct that expresses FLP in order to remove the
FRTed neomycin cassette introduced by the targeting construct. Optionally, the neomycin
cassette is removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase (e.g., US
6,774,279). Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice
C. Rearranged Human Germline VK3-20JK1 Targeting Vector (Figure 2)
[00122]         In a similar fashion, an engineered light chain locus expressing a rearranged
human germline VK3-20JK1 region was made using a targeting construct including, from 5'
to 3', a 5' homology arm containing sequence 5' to the endogenous mouse K light chain
locus obtained from mouse BAC clone 302g12, a FRTed neomycin resistance gene, a
genomic sequence including the human VK3-15 promoter, a leader sequence of the mouse
VK3-7 variable gene segment, an intron sequence of the mouse VK3-7 variable gene
segment, an open reading frame of a rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 region, a
genomic sequence containing a portion of the human JK-CK intron, and a 3' homology arm
containing sequence 3' of the endogenous mouse JK5 gene segment obtained from mouse
BAC clone 254m04 (Figure 2, middle). The sequence of the engineered human VK3-20JK1
locus is shown in SEQ ID NO:11.
                                                329

    WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
[00123]         Targeted insertion of the rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 region into
BAC DNA was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers located at
sequences within the rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain region. Briefly, the
intron sequence 3' to the mouse VK3-7 leader sequence was confirmed with primers ULC
m1F (SEQ ID NO:2) and ULC-m1R (SEQ ID NO:3). The open reading frame of the
rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 region was confirmed with primers 1635-h2F
(TCCAGGCACC CTGTCTTTG; SEQ ID NO:12) and 1635-h2R (AAGTAGCTGC
TGCTAACACT CTGACT; SEQ ID NO:13). The neomycin cassette was confirmed with
primers neoF (SEQ ID NO:6) and neoR (SEQ ID NO:7). Targeted BAC DNA was then used
to electroporate mouse ES cells to created modified ES cells for generating chimeric mice
that express the rearranged human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain.
[00124]         Positive ES cell clones were confirmed by Taqman TM screening and
karyotyping using probes specific for the engineered Vw3-20Ji1 light chain region inserted
into the endogenous    - light chain locus. Briefly, probe neoP (SEQ ID NO:8) which binds
within the neomycin marker gene, probe ULC-mlP (SEQ ID NO:9) which binds within the
mouse Vi3-7 leader sequence, and probe 1635h2P (AAAGAGCCAC CCTCTCCTGC
AGGG; SEQ ID NO:14) which binds within the human VK3-20Ji1 open reading frame.
Positive ES cell clones were then used to implant female mice. A litter of pups expressing
the human germline VK3-20JK1 light chain region.
[00125]         Alternatively, ES cells bearing human germline VK3-2OJK1 light chain region
can be transfected with a constuct that expresses FLP in oder to remove the FRTed
neomycin cassette introduced by the targeting consruct. Optionally, the neomycin cassette
may be removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase (e.g., US 6,774,279).
Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
D. Rearranged Human Germline VpreBJ%5 Targeting Vector (Figure 3)
[00126]         In a similar fashion, an engineered light chain locus expressing a rearranged
human germline VpreBJX5 region was made using a targeting construct including, from 5' to
3', a 5' homology arm containing sequence 5' to the endogenous mouse K light chain locus
obtained from mouse BAC clone 302g 12, a FRTed neomycin resistance gene, an genomic
sequence including the human VK3-15 promoter, a leader sequence of the mouse VK3-7
variable gene segment, an intron sequence of the mouse VK3-7 variable gene segment, an
open reading frame of a rearranged human germline VpreBJk5 region, a genomic sequence
containing a portion of the human Jx-CK intron, and a 3' homology arm containing sequence
3' of the endogenous mouse JK5 gene segment obtained from mouse BAC clone 254m04

    WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
(Figure 3, middle). The sequence of the engineered human VpreBJk5 locus is shown in
SEQ ID NO:15.
[00127]          Targeted insertion of the rearranged human germline VpreBJk5 region into
BAC DNA was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using primers located at
sequences within the rearranged human germline VpreBJk5 region light chain region.
Briefly, the intron sequence 3' to the mouse VK3-7 leader sequence was confirmed with
primers ULC-m1F (SEQ ID NO:2) and ULC-mIR (SEQ ID NO:3). The open reading frame
of the rearranged human germline VpreBJk5 region was confirmed with primers 1616-h1F
(TGTCCTCGGC CCTTGGA; SEQ ID NO:16) and 1616-h1R (CCGATGTCAT
GGTCGTTCCT; SEQ ID NO:17). The neomycin cassette was confirmed with primers neoF
(SEQ ID NO:6) and neoR (SEQ ID NO:7). Targeted BAC DNA was then used to
electroporate mouse ES cells to created modified ES cells for generating chimeric mice that
express the rearranged human germline VpreBJk5 light chain.
[00128]          Positive ES cell clones are confirmed by TAQMAN T M screening and
karyotyping using probes specific for the engineered VpreBJk5 light chain region inserted
into the endogenous K light chain locus. Briefly, probe neoP (SEQ ID NO:8) which binds
within the neomycin marker gene, probe ULC-m1 P (SEQ ID NO:9) which binds within the
mouse IgVK3-7 leader sequence, and probe 1616h1P (ACAATCCGCC TCACCTGCAC
CCT; SEQ ID NO:18) which binds within the human VpreBJR5 open reading frame. Positive
ES cell clones are then used to implant female mice to give rise to a litter of pups expressing
a germline light chain region.
[00129]          Alternatively, ES cells bearing the rearranged human germline VpreBJR5 light
chain region are transfected with a construct that expresses FLP in order to remove the
FRTed neomycin cassette introduced by the targeting consruct. Optionally, the neomycin
cassette is removed by breeding to mice that express FLP recombinase (e.g., US
6,774,279). Optionally, the neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
Example 3. Generation of Mice expressing a single rearranged human germline light
chain
[00130]          Targeted ES cells described above were used as donor ES cells and
introduced into an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (see, e.g.,
US Pat. No. 7,294,754 and Poueymirou et al. (2007) FO generation mice that are essentially
fully derived from the donor gene-targeted ES cells allowing immediate phenotypic analyses
Nature Biotech. 25(1):91-99. VELOCIMICE@ independently bearing an engineered human
germline VK1-39JK5 light chain region, a Vx3-20J1 light chain region or a VpreBJk5 light
chain region are identified by genotyping using a modification of allele assay (Valenzuela et

    WO 2011/097603                                                       PCT/US2011/023971
aL, supra) that detects the presence of the unique rearranged human germline light chain
region.
[00131]         Pups are genotyped and a pup heterozygous for the unique rearranged
human germline light chain region are selected for characterizing expression of the
rearranged human germline light chain region.
Example 4. Breeding of Mice expressing a single rearranged human germline light
chain
A. Endogenous IgX Knockout (KO).
[00132]         To optimize the usage of the engineered light chain locus, mice bearing one
of the rearranged human germline light chain regions are bred to another mouse containing
a deletion in the endogenous k light chain locus. In this manner, the progeny obtained will
express, as their only light chain, the rearranged human germline light chain region as
described in Example 2. Breeding is performed by standard techniques recognized in the
art and, alternatively, by a commercial breeder (e.g., The Jackson Laboratory). Mouse
strains bearing an engineered light chain locus and a deletion of the endogenous k light
chain locus are screened for presence of the unique light chain region and absence of
endogenous mouse k light chains.
B. Humanized Endogenous Heavy Chain Locus.
[00133]         Mice bearing an engineered human germline light chain locus are bred with
mice that contain a replacement of the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable gene locus
with the human heavy chain variable gene locus (see US 6,596,541; the VELOCIMMUNE@
mouse, Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). The VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse comprises a
genome comprising human heavy chain variable regions operably linked to endogenous
mouse constant region loci such that the mouse produces antibodies comprising a human
heavy chain variable region and a mouse heavy chain constant region in response to
antigenic stimulation. The DNA encoding the variable regions of the heavy chains of the
antibodies is isolated and operably linked to DNA encoding the human heavy chain constant
regions. The DNA is then expressed in a cell capable of expressing the fully human heavy
chain of the antibody.
[00134]         Mice bearing a replacement of the endogenous mouse VH locus with the
human VH locus and a single rearranged human germline VL region at the endogenous        K
light chain locus are obtained. Reverse chimeric antibodies containing somatically mutated
heavy chains (human VH and mouse CH) with a single human light chain (human VL and
mouse CL) are obtained upon immunization with an antigen of interest. VH and VL
                                                35

    WO 2011/097603                                                               PCT/US2011/023971
nucleotide sequences of B cells expressing the antibodies are identified and fully human
antibodies are made by fusion the VH and VL nucleotide sequences to human CH and CL
nucleotide sequences in a suitable expression system.
Example 5. Generation of Antibodies from Mice Expressing Human Heavy Chains and
a Rearranged Human Germline Light Chain Region
[00135]         After breeding mice that contain the engineered human light chain region to
various desired strains containing modifications and deletions of other endogenous Ig loci
(as described in Example 4), selected mice can be immunized with an antigen of interest.
[00136]          Generally, a VELOCIMMUNE@ mouse containing one of the single
rearranged human germline light chain regions is challenged with an antigen, and lymphatic
cells (such as B-cells) are recovered from serum of the animals. The lymphatic cells are
fused with a myeloma cell line to prepare immortal hybridoma cell lines, and such hybridoma
cell lines are screened and selected to identify hybridoma cell lines that produce antibodies
containing human heavy chain variables and a rearranged human germline light chains
which are specific to the antigen used for immunization. DNA encoding the variable regions
of the heavy chains and the light chain are isolated and linked to desirable isotypic constant
regions of the heavy chain and light chain. Due to the presence of the endogenous mouse
sequences and any additional cis-acting elements present in the endogenous locus, the
single light chain of each antibody may be somatically mutated. This adds additional
diversity to the antigen-specific repertoire comprising a single light chain and diverse heavy
chain sequences. The resulting cloned antibody sequences are subsequently expressed in
a cell, such as a CHO cell. Alternatively, DNA encoding the antigen-specific chimeric
antibodies or the variable domains of the light and heavy chains are identified directly from
antigen-specific lymphocytes.
[00137]          Initially, high affinity chimeric antibodies are isolated having a human variable
region and a mouse constant region. As described above, the antibodies are characterized
and selected for desirable characteristics, including affinity, selectivity, epitope, etc. The
mouse constant regions are replaced with a desired human constant region to generate the
fully human antibody containing a somatically mutated human heavy chain and a single light
chain derived from a rearranged human germline light chain region of the invention.
Suitable human constant regions include, for example wild-type or modified IgG1 or IgG4.
[00138]          Separate cohorts of VELOCIMMUNE@ mice containing a replacement of the
endogenous mouse heavy chain locus with human V, D, and J gene segments and a
replacement of the endogenous mouse           K light chain locus with either the engineered
germline VK1-39JK5 human light chain region or the engineered germline VK3-20JK1 human

    WO 2011/097603                                                           PCT/US2011/023971
 light chain region (described above) were immunized with a human cell-surface receptor
 protein (Antigen E). Antigen E is administered directly onto the hind footpad of mice with six
 consecutive injections every 3-4 days. Two to three micrograms of Antigen E are mixed with
 10 pg of CpG oligonucleotide (Cat # tirl-modn - ODN1826 oligonucleotide; InVivogen, San
 Diego, CA) and 25 pg of Adju-Phos (Aluminum phosphate gel adjuvant, Cat# H-71639-250;
 Brenntag Biosector, Frederikssund, Denmark) prior to injection. A total of six injections are
given prior to the final antigen recall, which is given 3-5 days prior to sacrifice. Bleeds after
the 4th and 6th injection are collected and the antibody immune response is monitored by a
standard antigen-specific immunoassay.
 [00139]         When a desired immune response is achieved splenocytes are harvested and
fused with mouse myeloma cells to preserve their viability and form hybridoma cell lines.
The hybridoma cell lines are screened and selected to identify cell lines that produce
Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies. Using this technique several anti-Antigen
 E-specific common light chain antibodies (i.e., antibodies possessing human heavy chain
variable domains, the same human light chain variable domain, and mouse constant
domains) are obtained.
 [00140]         Alternatively, anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies are isolated
directly from antigen-positive B cells without fusion to myeloma cells, as described in U.S.
2007/0280945A1, herein specifically incorporated by reference in its entirety. Using this
method, several fully human anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies (i.e., antibodies
possessing human heavy chain variable domains, either an engineered human VK1-39JK5
light chain or an engineered human VK3-20JK1 light chain region, and human constant
domains) were obtained.
[00141]          The biological properties of the exemplary anti-Antigen E common light chain
antibodies generated in accordance with the methods of this Example are described in detail
in the sections set forth below.
Example 6. Heavy Chain Gene Segment Usage in Antigen-Specific Common Light
Chain Antibodies
[00142]          To analyze the structure of the human anti-Antigen E common light chain
antibodies produced, nucleic acids encoding heavy chain antibody variable regions were
cloned and sequenced. From the nucleic acid sequences and predicted amino acid
sequences of the antibodies, gene usage was identified for the heavy chain variable region
(HCVR) of selected common light chain antibodies obtained from immunized
VELOCIMMUNE@ mice containing either the engineered human VK1-39JK5 light chain or
engineered human VK3-20JK1 light chain region. Results are shown in Tables 3 and 4,

    WO 2011/097603                                                      PCT/US2011/023971
which demonstrate that mice according to the invention generate antigen-specific common
light chain antibodies from a variety of human heavy chain gene segments, due to a variety
of rearrangements, when employing either a mouse that expresses a light chain from only a
human V1 -39- or a human Vx3-20-derived light chain. Human       VH gene segments of the 2,
3, 4, and 5 families rearranged with a variety of human  DH segments and human  JH
segments to yield antigen-specific antibodies.
[00143]
                                            Table 3
                                           Vri-39Jw5
                              Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                                    HCVR
                               Antibody         VH     DH     JH
                              2952             2-5     6-6     1
                              3022            3-23    3-10     4
                              3028            3-23     3-3     4
                              2955            3-30     6-6     1
                              3043            3-30     6-6     3
                              3014             3-30    1-7     4
                              3015             3-30    1-7     4
                              3023             3-30    1-7     4
                              3024             3-30    1-7     4
                              3032             3-30    1-7     4
                              3013             3-30   5-12     4
                              3042             3-30   5-12     4
                              2985             3-30   6-13     4
                              2997             3-30   6-13     4
                              3011             3-30   6-13     4
                              3047             3-30   6-13     4
                              3018             3-30    6-6     4
                              2948             3-30   7-27     4
                              2987             3-30   7-27     4
                              2996             3-30   7-27     4
                              3005             3-30   7-27     4
                              3012             3-30   7-27     4
                              3020             3-30   7-27     4
                              3021             3-30   7-27     4
                              3025             3-30   7-27     4
                              3030             3-30   7-27     4

    WO 2011/097603                                                           PCT/US2011/023971
                                3036            3-30     7-27    4
                                2982            3-30     3-22    5
                                2949            3-30      6-6    5
                                2950            3-30      6-6    5
                                2954            3-30      6-6    5
                                2978            3-30      6-6    5
                                3016            3-30      6-6    5
                                3017            3-30      6-6    5
                                3033            3-30      6-6    5
                                3041            3-30      6-6    5
                                3004            3-30     7-27     5
                                3010            4-59     3-16    3
                                3019            4-59     3-16     3
                                2964            4-59     3-22     3
                                3027            4-59      3-16   4
                                3046            5-51      5-5     3
[00144]
                                              Table 4
                                            VK3-2OJxl
                                Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                                      HCVR
                                 Antibody
                                               VH       DH     JH
                                2968          4-39     1-26     3
                                2975          5-51     6-13     5
                                2972          5-51     3-16     6
Example 7. Determination of Blocking Ability of Antigen-Specific Common Light
Chain Antibodies by Luminex TM Assay
[00145]          Ninety-eight human common light chain antibodies raised against Antigen E
were tested for their ability to block binding of Antigen E's natural ligand (Ligand Y) to
Antigen E in a bead-based assay.
[00146]          The extracellular domain (ECD) of Antigen E was conjugated to two myc
epitope tags and a 6X histidine tag (Antigen E-mmH) and amine-coupled to carboxylated
microspheres at a concentration of 20 pg/mL in MES buffer. The mixture was incubated for
two hours at room temperature followed by bead deactivation with 1 M Tris pH 8.0 followed
by washing in PBS with 0.05% (v/v) Tween-20. The beads were then blocked with PBS
(Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA) containing 2% (w/v) BSA (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., St. Louis,
                                                 3N

    WO 2011/097603                                                          PCT/US2011/023971
MO). In a 96-well filter plate, supernatants containing Antigen E-specific common light chain
antibodies, were diluted 1:15 in buffer. A negative control containing a mock supernatant
with the same media components as for the antibody supernatant was prepared. Antigen E
labeled beads were added to the supernatants and incubated overnight at 4*C. Biotinylated
Ligand Y protein was added to a final concentration of 0.06 nM and incubated for two hours
at room temperature. Detection of biotinylated-Ligand Y bound to Antigen E-myc-myc-6His
labeled beads was determined with R-Phycoerythrin conjugated to Streptavidin (Moss Inc,
Pasadena, MD) followed by measurement in a LuminexTM flow cytometry-based analyzer.
Background Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI) of a sample without Ligand Y was
subtracted from all samples. Percent blocking was calculated by division of the background
subtracted MFI of each sample by the adjusted negative control value, multiplying by 100
and subtracting the resulting value from 100.
[00147]         In a similar experiment, the same 98 human common light chain antibodies
raised against Antigen E were tested for their ability to block binding of Antigen E to Ligand
Y-labeled beads.
[00148]         Briefly, Ligand Y was amine-coupled to carboxylated microspheres at a
concentration of 20 pg/mL diluted in MES buffer. The mixture and incubated two hours at
room temperature followed by deactivation of beads with 1 M Tris pH 8 then washing in PBS
with 0.05% (v/v) Tween-20. The beads were then blocked with PBS (Irvine Scientific, Santa
Ana, CA) containing 2% (w/v) BSA (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., St. Louis, MO). In a 96-well filter
plate, supernatants containing Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies were
diluted 1:15 in buffer. A negative control containing a mock supernatant with the same
media components as for the antibody supernatant was prepared. A biotinylated-Antigen E
mmH was added to a final concentration of 0.42 nM and incubated overnight at 40C. Ligand
Y-labeled beads were then added to the antibody/Antigen E mixture and incubated for two
hours at room temperature. Detection of biotinylated-Antigen E-mmH bound to Ligand Y
beads was determined with R-Phycoerythrin conjugated to Streptavidin (Moss Inc,
Pasadena, MD) followed by measurement in a LuminexTM flow cytometry-based analyzer.
Background Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI) of a sample without Antigen E was
subtracted from all samples. Percent blocking was calculated by division of the background
subtracted MFI of each sample by the adjusted negative control value, multiplying by 100
and subtracting the resulting value from 100.
[00149]         Tables 5 and 6 show the percent blocking for all 98 anti-Antigen E common
light chain antibodies tested in both LuminexTM assays. ND: not determined under current
experimental conditions.
                                               An

    WO 2011/097603                                                       PCT/US2011/023971
[00150]          In the first LuminexTM experiment described above, 80 common light chain
antibodies containing the VK1-39JK5 engineered light chain were tested for their ability to
block Ligand Y binding to Antigen E-labeled beads. Of these 80 common light chain
antibodies, 68 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 12 demonstrated <50% blocking (6 at 25
50% blocking and 6 at <25% blocking). For the 18 common light chain antibodies containing
the Vx3-20JK1 engineered light chain, 12 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 6
demonstrated <50% blocking (3 at 25-50% blocking and 3 at <25% blocking) of Ligand Y
binding to Antigen E-labeled beads.
[00151]          In the second LuminexTM experiment described above, the same 80 common
light chain antibodies containing the VK1-39JK5 engineered light chain were tested for their
ability to block binding of Antigen E to Ligand Y-labeled beads. Of these 80 common light
chain antibodies, 36 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 44 demonstrated <50% blocking
(27 at 25-50% blocking and 17 at <25% blocking). For the 18 common light chain antibodies
containing the VK3-20Jw1 engineered light chain, 1 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 17
demonstrated <50% blocking (5 at 25-50% blocking and 12 at <25% blocking) of Antigen E
binding to Ligand Y-labeled beads.
[00152]          The data of Tables 5 and 6 establish that the rearrangements described in
Tables 3 and 4 generated anti-Antigen E-specific common light chain antibodies that
blocked binding of Ligand Y to its cognate receptor Antigen E with varying degrees of
efficacy, which is consistent with the anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies of Tables
3 and 4 comprising antibodies with overlapping and non-overlapping epitope specificity with
respect to Antigen E.
[00153]
                                              Table 5
                                            Vi1 -39JK5
                                 Common Light Chain Antibodies
                Antibody            % Blocking of             % Blocking of
                               Antigen E-Labeled Beads    Antigen E In Solution
                2948                     81.1                       47.8
                2948G                    38.6                        ND
                2949                     97.6                       78.8
                2949G                    97.1                       73.7
                2950                     96.2                       81.9
                2950G                    89.8                       31.4
                2952                     96.1                       74.3
                2952G                    93.5                       39.9
                                                 Al

WO 2011/097603             PCT/US2011/023971
          2954   93.7 70.1
          2954G  91.7 30.1
          2955   75.8 30.0
          2955G  71.8  ND
          2964   92.1 31.4
          2964G  94.6 43.0
          2978   98.0 95.1
          2978G  13.9 94.1
          2982   92.8 78.5
          2982G  41.9 52.4
          2985   39.5 31.2
          2985G   2.0  5.0
          2987   81.7 67.8
          2987G  26.6 29.3
          2996   87.3 55.3
          2996G  95.9 38.4
          2997   93.4 70.6
          2997G   9.7  7.5
           3004  79.0 48.4
           3004G 60.3 40.7
           3005  97.4 93.5
           3005G 77.5 75.6
           3010  98.0 82.6
           3010G 97.9 81.0
           3011  87.4 42.8
           3011G 83.5 41.7
           3012  91.0 60.8
           3012G 52.4 16.8
          3013   80.3 65.8
          3013G  17.5 15.4
          3014   63.4 20.7
          3014G  74.4 28.5
          3015   89.1 55.7
          3015G  58.8 17.3
          3016   97.1 81.6
          3016G  93.1 66.4
          3017   94.8 70.2
          3017G  87.9 40.8
          3018   85.4 54.0
          3018G  26.1 12.7

WO 2011/097603             PCT/US2011/023971
           3019  99.3 92.4
           3019G 99.3 88.1
           3020  96.7 90.3
           3020G 85.2 41.5
           3021  74.5 26.1
           3021G 81.1 27.4
           3022  65.2 17.6
           3022G 67.2  9.1
           3023  71.4 28.5
           3023G 73.8 29.7
           3024  73.9 32.6
           3024G 89.0 10.0
           3025  70.7 15.6
           3025G 76.7 24.3
           3027  96.2 61.6
           3027G 98.6 75.3
           3028  92.4 29.0
           3028G 87.3 28.8
           3030   6.0 10.6
           3030G 41.3 14.2
           3032  76.5 31.4
           3032G 17.7 11.0
           3033  98.2 86.1
           3033G 93.6 64.0
           3036  74.7 32.7
           3036G 90.1 51.2
           3041  95.3 75.9
           3041G 92.4 51.6
           3042  88.1 73.3
           3042G 60.9 25.2
           3043  90.8 65.8
           3043G 92.8 60.3

    WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
[00154]
                                              Table 6
                                             V3-20Jic1
                                 Common Light Chain Antibodies
                 Antibody           % Blocking of              % Blocking of
                              Antigen E-Labeled Beads      Antigen E In Solution
                 2968                    97.1                       73.3
                 2968G                   67.1                       14.6
                 2969                    51.7                       20.3
                 2969G                   37.2                       16.5
                 2970                    92.2                       34.2
                 2970G                   92.7                       27.2
                 2971                    23.4                       11.6
                 2971G                   18.8                       18.9
                 2972                    67.1                       38.8
                 2972G                   64.5                       39.2
                 2973                    77.7                       27.0
                 2973G                   51.1                       20.7
                 2974                    57.8                       12.4
                 2974G                   69.9                       17.6
                 2975                    49.4                       18.2
                 2975G                   32.0                       19.5
                 2976                     1.0                        1.0
                 2976G                   50.4                       20.4
Example 8. Determination of Blocking Ability of Antigen-Specific Common Light
Chain Antibodies by ELISA
[00155]           Human common light chain antibodies raised against Antigen E were tested
for their ability to block Antigen E binding to a Ligand Y-coated surface in an ELISA assay.
[00156]           Ligand Y was coated onto 96-well plates at a concentration of 2 pg/mL diluted
in PBS and incubated overnight followed by washing four times in PBS with 0.05% Tween
20. The plate was then blocked with PBS (Irvine Scientific, Santa Ana, CA) containing 0.5%
(w/v) BSA (Sigma-Aldrich Corp., St. Louis, MO) for one hour at room temperature. In a
separate plate, supernatants containing anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies were
diluted 1:10 in buffer. A mock supernatant with the same components of the antibodies was
used as a negative control. Antigen E-mmH (described above) was added to a final
concentration of 0.150 nM and incubated for one hour at room temperature. The
                                                 AA

    WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
antibody/Antigen E-mmH mixture was then added to the plate containing Ligand Y and
incubated for one hour at room temperature. Detection of Antigen E-mmH bound to Ligand
Y was determined with Horse-Radish Peroxidase (HRP) conjugated to anti-Penta-His
antibody (Qiagen, Valencia, CA) and developed by standard colorimetric response using
tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) substrate (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) neutralized by
sulfuric acid. Absorbance was read at OD450 for 0.1 sec. Background absorbance of a
sample without Antigen E was subtracted from all samples. Percent blocking was calculated
by division of the background-subtracted MFl of each sample by the adjusted negative
control value, multiplying by 100 and subtracting the resulting value from 100.
[00157]          Tables 7 and 8 show the percent blocking for all 98 anti-Antigen E common
light chain antibodies tested in the ELISA assay. ND: not determined under current
experimental conditions.
[00158]          As described in this Example, of the 80 common light chain antibodies
containing the VK1-39JK5 engineered light chain tested for their ability to block Antigen E
binding to a Ligand Y-coated surface, 22 demonstrated >50% blocking, while 58
demonstrated <50% blocking (20 at 25-50% blocking and 38 at <25% blocking). For the 18
common light chain antibodies containing the VK3-20JK1 engineered light chain, 1
demonstrated >50% blocking, while 17 demonstrated <50% blocking (5 at 25-50% blocking
and 12 at <25% blocking) of Antigen E binding to a Ligand Y-coated surface.
[00159]          These results are also consistent with the Antigen E-specific common light
chain antibody pool comprising antibodies with overlapping and non-overlapping epitope
specificity with respect to Antigen E.
[00160]
                                            Table 7
                                           VKI-39JK5
                               Common Light Chain Antibodies
                               Antibody        % Blocking of
                                        Y Antigen E In Solution
                               2948                  21.8
                               2948G                 22.9
                               2949                  79.5
                               2949G                 71.5
                               2950                  80.4
                               2950G                 30.9
                               2952                  66.9
                               2952G                 47.3

WO 2011/097603                PCT/US2011/023971
               2954      55.9
               2954G     44.7
               2955      12.1
               2955G     25.6
               2964      34.8
               2964G     47.7
               2978      90.0
               2978G     90.2
               2982      59.0
               2982G     20.4
               2985      10.5
               2985G      ND
               2987      31.4
               2987G      ND
               2996      29.3
               2996G      ND
               2997      48.7
               2997G      ND
               3004      16.7
               3004G      3.5
               3005      87.2
               3005G     54.3
               3010      74.5
               3010G     84.6
               3011      19.4
               3011G      ND
               3012      45.0
               3012G     12.6
               3013      39.0
               3013G      9.6
               3014       5.2
               3014G     17.1
               3015      23.7
               3015G     10.2
               3016      78.1
               3016G     37.4
               3017      61.6
               3017G     25.2
               3018      40.6
               3018G     14.5
                     AP~

WO 2011/097603               PCT/US2011/023971
               3019     94.6
               3019G    92.3
               3020     80.8
               3020G     ND
               3021      7.6
               3021G    20.7
               3022      2.4
               3022G    15.0
               3023      9.1
               3023G    19.2
               3024      7.5
               3024G    15.2
               3025      ND
               3025G    13.9
               3027     61.4
               3027G    82.7
               3028     40.3
               3028G    12.3
               3030      ND
               3030G     9.5
               3032      ND
               3032G    13.1
               3033     77.1
               3033G    32.9
               3036     17.6
               3036G    24.6
               3041     59.3
               3041G    30.7
               3042     39.9
               3042G    16.1
               3043     57.4
               3043G    46.1
                     A7

    WO 2011/097603                                                           PCT/US2011/023971
[00161]
                                             Table 8
                                           V-K3-20JYc1
                               Common Light Chain Antibodies
                             Antibody               Blocking
                                          of Antigen E In Solution
                             2968                    68.9
                             2968G                   15.2
                             2969                    10.1
                             2969G                   23.6
                             2970                    34.3
                             2970G                   41.3
                             2971                     6.3
                             2971 G                  27.1
                             2972                     9.6
                             2972G                   35.7
                             2973                    20.7
                             2973G                   23.1
                             2974                     ND
                             2974G                   22.0
                             2975                     8.7
                             2975G                   19.2
                             2976                     4.6
                             2976G                   26.7
Example 9. BlAcoreTM Affinity Determination for Antigen-Specific Common Light
Chain Antibodies
[00162]         Equilibrium dissociation constants (K 0 ) for selected antibody supernatants
were determined by SPR (Surface Plasmon Resonance) using a BlAcoreTM T1Q instrument
(GE Healthcare). All data was obtained using HBS-EP (10mM Hepes, 150mM NaCl, 0.3mM
EDTA, 0.05% Surfactant P20, pH 7.4) as both the running and sample buffers, at 25'C.
Antibodies were captured from crude supernatant samples on a CM5 sensor chip surface
previously derivatized with a high density of anti-human Fc antibodies using standard amine
coupling chemistry. During the capture step, supernatants were injected across the anti
human Fc surface at a flow rate of 3 pL/min, for a total of 3 minutes. The capture step was
followed by an injection of either running buffer or analyte at a concentration of 100 nM for 2
minutes at a flow rate of 35 pL/min. Dissociation of antigen from the captured antibody was
monitored for 6 minutes. The captured antibody was removed by a brief injection of 10 mM
                                                AQ

   WO 2011/097603                                                           PCT/US2011/023971
glycine, pH 1.5. All sensorgrams were double referenced by subtracting sensorgrams from
buffer injections from the analyte sensorgrams, thereby removing artifacts caused by
dissociation of the antibody from the capture surface. Binding data for each antibody was fit
to a 1:1 binding model with mass transport using BlAcore T100 Evaluation software v2.1.
Results are shown in Tables 9 and 10.
[00163]         The binding affinities of common light chain antibodies comprising the
rearrangements shown in Tables 3 and 4 vary, with nearly all exhibiting a      KD  in the
nanomolar range. The affinity data is consistent with the common light chain antibodies
resulting from the combinatorial association of rearranged variable domains described in
Tables 3 and 4 being high-affinity, clonally selected, and somatically mutated. Coupled with
data previously shown, the common light chain antibodies described in Tables 3 and 4
comprise a collection of diverse, high-affinity antibodies that exhibit specificity for one or
more epitopes on Antigen E.
[00164]
                                              Table 9
                                            Vic1-39Jx5
                               Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                               1OOnM Antigen E
                               Antibody
                                              KD  (nM)   T1 /2 (min)
                               2948             8.83          28
                               2948G            95.0            1
                               2949             3.57           18
                               2949G            6.37           9
                               2950            4.91            17
                               2950G            13.6           5
                               2952             6.25           7
                               2952G            7.16           4
                               2954             2.37          24
                               2954G            5.30           9
                               2955             14.4           6
                               2955G            12.0           4
                               2964             14.8           6
                               2964G            13.0           9
                               2978             1.91          49
                               2978G            1.80          58
                               2982            6.41            19
                                                 Al

WO 2011/097603                PCT/US2011/023971
               2982G 16.3  9
               2985  64.4  9
               2985G 2.44  8
               2987  21.0  11
               2987G 37.6  4
               2996  10.8  9
               2996G 24.0  2
               2997  7.75  19
               2997G  151  1
               3004  46.5  14
               3004G 1.93 91
               3005  2.35 108
               3005G 6.96 27
               3010  4.13 26
               3010G 2.10 49
               3011  59.1  5
               3011G 41.7  5
               3012  9.71 20
               3012G 89.9  2
               3013  20.2 20
               3013G 13.2  4
               3014  213   4
               3014G 36.8  3
               3015  29.1  11
               3015G 65.9  0
               3016  4.99  17
               3016G 18.9  4
               3017  9.83  8
               3017G 55.4  2
               3018  11.3 36
               3018G 32.5  3
               3019  1.54 59
               3019G 2.29 42
               3020  5.41 39
               3020G 41.9  6
               3021  50.1  6
               3021G 26.8  4
               3022  25.7  17
               3022G 20.8  12
               3023   263  9

  WO 2011/097603                                 PCT/US2011/023971
                 3023G         103         5
                 3024         58.8         7
                 3024G        7.09        10
                 3025         35.2         6
                 3025G        42.5         8
                 3027         7.15         6
                 3027G        4.24        18
                 3028         6.89        37
                 3028G        7.23        22
                 3030         46.2         7
                 3030G         128         3
                 3032         53.2         9
                 3032G        13.0         1
                 3033         4.61        17
                 3033G        12.0         5
                 3036          284        12
                 3036G        18.2        10
                 3041         6.90        12
                 3041G        22.9         2
                 3042         9.46        34
                 3042G        85.5         3
                 3043         9.26        29
                 3043G        13.1        22
[00165]
                            Table 10
                           V-K3-20J-I
                 Common Light Chain Antibodies
                              100nM Antigen E
                  Antibody   KD (nM)  T112 (min)
                 2968          5.50        8
                 2968G          305        0
                 2969          34.9        2
                 2969G          181         1
                 2970G         12.3        3
                 2971G         32.8       22
                 2972          6.02        13
                 2972G         74.6       26
                 2973          5.35       39
                 2973G         11.0       44

   WO 2011/097603                                                         PCT/US2011/023971
                               2974             256        0
                               2974G            138        0
                               2975             38.0       2
                               2975G            134         1
                               2976             6.73       10
                               2976G            656        8
Example 10. Determination of Binding Specificities of Antigen-Specific Common Light
Chain Antibodies by LuminexTM Assay
[00166]          Selected anti-Antigen E common light chain antibodies were tested for their
ability to bind to the ECD of Antigen E and Antigen E ECD variants, including the
cynomolgous monkey ortholog (Mf Antigen E), which differs from the human protein in
approximately 10% of its amino acid residues; a deletion mutant of Antigen E lacking the last
 10 amino acids from the C-terminal end of the ECD (Antigen E-ACT); and two mutants
containing an alanine substitution at suspected locations of interaction with Ligand Y
(Antigen E-Alal and AntigenE-Ala2). The Antigen E proteins were produced in CHO cells
and each contained a myc-myc-His C-terminal tag.
[00167]          For the binding studies, Antigen E ECD protein or variant protein (described
above) from 1 mL of culture medium was captured by incubation for 2 hr at room
temperature with 1 x 106 microsphere (Luminex TM) beads covalently coated with an anti-myc
monoclonal antibody (MAb 9E10, hybridoma cell line CRL-1 729TM; ATCC, Manassas, VA).
The beads were then washed with PBS before use. Supernatants containing anti-Antigen E
common light chain antibodies were diluted 1:4 in buffer and added to 96-well filter plates. A
mock supernatant with no antibody was used as negative control. The beads containing the
captured Antigen E proteins were then added to the antibody samples (3000 beads per well)
and incubated overnight at 40C. The following day, the sample beads were washed and the
bound common light chain antibody was detected with a R-phycoerythrin-conjugated anti
human IgG antibody. The fluorescence intensity of the beads (approximately 100 beads
counted for each antibody sample binding to each Antigen E protein) was measured with a
LuminexTM flow cytometry-based analyzer, and the median fluorescence intensity (MFI) for
at least 100 counted beads per bead/antibody interaction was recorded. Results are shown
in Tables 11 and 12.

  WO 2011/097603                                                  PCT/US2011/023971
[00168]
                                       Table 11
                      VKi1-39JK5 Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI)
     Antibody    Antigen E-    Antigen E-  Antigen E-  Antigen     Mf Antigen E
                    ECD           ACT         Alal     E-Ala2
     2948           1503          2746        4953       3579          1648
     2948G           537           662        2581       2150           863
     2949           3706          4345        8169       5678          5142
     2949G          3403          3318        7918       5826          5514
     2950           3296          4292        7756       5171          4749
     2950G          2521          2408        7532       5079          3455
     2952           3384          1619        1269        168           911
     2952G          3358          1001         108         55           244
     2954           2808          3815        7114       5039          3396
     2954G          2643          2711        7620       5406          3499
     2955           1310          2472        4738       3765          1637
     2955G          1324          1802        4910       3755          1623
     2964           5108          1125        4185        346            44
     2964G         4999            729        4646        534            91
     2978           6986          2800       14542      10674          8049
     2978G          5464          3295       11652       8026          6452
     2982          4955           2388       13200       9490          6772
     2982G          3222          2013        8672       6509          4949
     2985           1358           832        4986       3892          1669
     2985G           43             43         128        244           116
     2987           3117          1674        7646       5944          2546
     2987G          3068          1537        9202       6004          4744
     2996          4666           1917       12875       9046          6459
     2996G          2752          1736        8742       6150          4873
     2997           5164          2159       12167       8361          5922
     2997G           658           356        3392       2325          1020
     3004           2794          1397        8542       6268          3083
     3004G          2753          1508        8267       5808          4345
     3005           5683          2221       12900       9864          5868
     3005G         4344           2732       10669       7125          5880
     3010          4829           1617        2642       3887           44
     3010G          3685          1097        2540       3022            51

WO 2011/097603                        PCT/US2011/023971
  3011         2859 2015    7855 5513     3863
  3011G        2005 1072    6194 4041     3181
  3012         3233 2221    8543 5637     3307
  3012G         968  378    3115 2261      1198
  3013         2343 1791    6715 4810     2528
  3013G         327  144    1333 1225      370
  3014         1225 1089    5436 3621      1718
  3014G        1585  851    5178 3705     2411
  3015         3202 2068    8262 5554     3796
  3015G        1243  531    4246 2643      1611
  3016         4220 2543    8920 5999     5666
  3016G        2519 1277    6344 4288     4091
  3017         3545 2553    8700 5547     5098
  3017G        1972 1081    5763 3825     3038
  3018         2339 1971    6140 4515     2293
  3018G         254  118     978 1020      345
  3019         5235 1882    7108 4249       54
  3019G        4090 1270    4769 3474      214
  3020         3883 3107    8591 6602     4420
  3020G        2165 1209    6489 4295     2912
  3021         1961 1472    6872 4641     2742
  3021G        2091 1005    6430 3988     2935
  3022         2418  793    7523 2679       36
  3022G        2189  831    6182 3051       132
  3023         1692 1411    5788 3898     2054
  3023G        1770  825    5702 3677     2648
  3024         1819 1467    6179 4557     2450
  3024G         100   87     268  433       131
  3025         1853 1233    6413 4337     2581
  3025G        1782  791    5773 3871     2717
  3027         4131 1018     582 2510       22
  3027G        3492  814    1933 2596       42
  3028         4361 2545    9884 5639      975
  3028G        2835 1398    7124 3885      597
  3030          463  277    1266 1130      391
  3030G         943  302    3420 2570      1186
  3032         2083 1496    6594 4402     2405
  3032G         295  106     814  902      292
  3033         4409 2774    8971 6331     5825
  3033G        2499 1234    6745 4174     4210
                         rA

   WO 2011/097603                                                      PCT/US2011/023971
      3036             1755           1362         6137        4041         1987
      3036G            2313           1073        6387         4243         3173
      3041             3674           2655         8629        5837         4082
      3041G            2519           1265         6468        4274         3320
      3042             2653           2137         7277        5124         3325
      3042G            1117            463        4205         2762         1519
      3043             3036           2128         7607        5532         3366
      3043G            2293           1319         6573        4403         3228
[00169]
                                            Table 12
                         VK3-20Ji1c  Common Light Chain Antibodies
                                    Mean Fluorescence Intensity (MFI)
     Antibody      Antigen E-      Antigen E- Antigen E- Antigen E-      Mf Antigen E
                       ECD            ACT          Alai         Ala2
     2968             6559           3454         14662         3388           29
     2968G            2149            375          9109          129           22
     2969             2014            1857         7509         5671         3021
     2969G             1347           610          6133         4942         2513
     2970             5518            1324        14214          607           32
     2970G            4683             599        12321          506           31
     2971              501            490          2506         2017          754
     2971G             578             265         2457         2062          724
     2972             2164           2158          8408         6409         3166
     2972G             1730            992         6364         4602         2146
     2973             3527            1148         3967           44           84
     2973G             1294            276         1603           28           44
     2974              1766            722         8821          241           19
     2974G            2036             228         8172          135           26
     2975              1990           1476         8669         6134         2468
     2975G             890             315         4194         3987         1376
     2976               147            140          996          1079         181
     2976G             1365           460          6024         3929         1625
[00170]         The anti-Antigen E common light chain antibody supernatants exhibited high
specific binding to the beads linked to Antigen E-ECD. For these beads, the negative
control mock supernatant resulted in negligible signal (<10 MFI) when combined with the
Antigen E-ECD bead sample, whereas the supernatants containing anti-Antigen E common

    WO 2011/097603                                                               PCT/US2011/023971
light chain antibodies exhibited strong binding signal (average MFI of 2627 for 98 antibody
supernatants; MFI > 500 for 91/98 antibody samples).
[00171]         As a measure of the ability of the selected anti-Antigen E common light chain
antibodies to identify different epitopes on the ECD of Antigen E, the relative binding of the
antibodies to the variants were determined. All four Antigen E variants were captured to the
anti-myc LuminexTM beads as described above for the native Antigen E-ECD binding
studies, and the relative binding ratios (MFvariant/MFlAntigen  E-ECD) were determined. For 98
tested common light chain antibody supernatants shown in Tables 11 and 12, the average
ratios (MFvariant/MFAntgen  E-ECD) differed for each variant, likely reflecting different capture
amounts of proteins on the beads (average ratios of 0.61, 2.9, 2.0, and 1.0 for Antigen E
ACT, Antigen E-Alal, Antigen E-Ala2, and Mf Antigen E, respectively). For each protein
variant, the binding for a subset of the 98 tested common light chain antibodies showed
greatly reduced binding, indicating sensitivity to the mutation that characterized a given
variant. For example, 19 of the common light chain antibody samples bound to the Mf
Antigen E with MFivariant/MFIAntigen  E-ECD of <8%. Since many in this group include high or
moderately high affinity antibodies (5 with KD < 5nM, 15 with KD < 50 nM), it is likely that the
lower signal for this group results from sensitivity to the sequence (epitope) differences
between native Antigen E-ECD and a given variant rather than from lower affinities.
[00172]          These data establish that the common light chain antibodies described in
Tables 3 and 4 indeed represent a diverse group of Antigen-E-specific common light chain
antibodies that specifically recognize more than one epitope on Antigen E.

What is claimed is:
1.      A mouse, comprising:
        (a) a replacement at the endogenous mouse        K immunoglobulin light chain variable
region locus of all or substantially all endogenous mouse         K immunoglobulin light chain
variable region gene segments with a human VK1-39/J gene segment, a human VK3-20/J
gene segment, or a combination thereof, wherein the human gene segment is operably
linked to an endogenous mouse    K constant gene; and,
        (b) a replacement of all or substantially all of the endogenous mouse heavy chain
variable region gene locus with a plurality of human heavy chain variable region gene
segments, wherein the human heavy chain variable region gene segments are operably
linked to an endogenous mouse heavy chain constant gene, and the human heavy chain
variable region gene segments are capable of rearranging and forming a rearranged
human/mouse chimeric heavy chain gene.
2.      The mouse of claim 1, wherein the mouse lacks an endogenous mouse                      K
immunoglobulin light chain variable region locus that is capable of rearranging and forming a
gene that encodes a mouse    K variable region.
3.      The mouse of claim 1, further comprising a mouse     K intronic enhancer 5' with respect
to the mouse light chain constant region.
4.      The mouse of claim 1, further comprising a mouse     K 3' enhancer.
5.      The mouse of claim 1, wherein the plurality of human heavy chain variable region
gene segments comprises a segment selected from a 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3
13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48, 4-31, 4-39, 4-59, 5-51, a 6-1 human immunoglobulin
variable region gene segment.
6.      The mouse of claim 1, wherein the plurality of human heavy chain variable region
gene segments comprises a segment selected from a D1-7, D1-26, D3-3, D3-10, D3-16, D3
22, D5-5, D5-12, D6-6, D6-13, D7-27 gene segment, and a combination thereof.
7.      The mouse of claim 1, wherein the mouse comprises a B cell that comprises a
rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene sequence comprising a human
heavy chain variable region gene derived from a VH gene segment selected from a VH2-5,
VH3-23, VH3-30, VH4-39, VH4-59, VH5-51, and derived from a D gene segment selected
from a 01-7, 01-26, 03-3, 03-16, 03-10, 03-22, 05-5, 05-12, 06-6, 06-13, and 07-27.
                                              F~7

8.       The mouse of claim 1, wherein the human VK1-39 gene segment is present in a
rearrangement with a human     JK5  gene segment.
9.       The mouse of claim 1, wherein the human VK3-20 gene segment is present in a
rearrangement with a human JK1 gene segment.
10.      A method for selecting a human variable region for making a bispecific antibody,
comprising:
         (a) immunizing a genetically modified mouse with an antigen of interest, wherein the
mouse comprises (i) a replacement at the endogenous mouse          K immunoglobulin  light chain
variable region locus of all or substantially all endogenous mouse       K immunoglobulin light
chain variable region gene segments with a human VK1-39/J gene segment, a human VK3
20/J gene segment, or a combination thereof, wherein the human gene segment is operably
linked to an endogenous mouse           K  constant gene; and, (ii) a replacement of all or
substantially all of the endogenous mouse heavy chain variable region gene locus with a
plurality of human heavy chain variable region gene segments, wherein the human heavy
chain variable region gene segments are operably linked to an endogenous mouse heavy
chain constant gene, and the human heavy chain variable region gene segments are
capable of rearranging and forming a rearranged human/mouse chimeric heavy chain gene;
         (b) allowing the mouse to develop an immune response to the antigen of interest;
and,
         (c) identifying a clonally selected lymphocyte of the mouse that expresses an
antibody that specifically binds the antigen of interest, and obtaining from the lymphocyte or
the antibody a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human heavy chain variable region that
specifically binds the antigen of interest; and,
         (d) employing the nucleotide sequence of (c) in making a bispecific antibody.
11.      The method of claim 10, wherein the mouse lacks an endogenous mouse                   K
immunoglobulin light chain variable region locus that is capable of rearranging and forming a
gene that encodes a mouse     K variable region.
12.      The method of claim 10, further comprising a mouse         K intronic enhancer 5' with
respect to the mouse light chain constant region.
13.      The method of claim 10, further comprising a mouse    K 3' enhancer.

14.      The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of human heavy chain variable region
gene segments comprises a segment selected from a 1-2, 1-8, 1-24, 2-5, 3-7, 3-9, 3-11, 3
13, 3-15, 3-20, 3-23, 3-30, 3-33, 3-48, 4-31, 4-39, 4-59, 5-51, a 6-1 human immunoglobulin
variable region gene segment.
15.      The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of human heavy chain variable region
gene segments comprises a segment selected from a 01-7, 01-26, 03-3, 03-10, 03-16, D3
22, 05-5, 05-12, D6-6, 06-13, 07-27 gene segment, and a combination thereof.
16.      The method of claim 10, wherein the mouse comprises a B cell that comprises a
rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene sequence comprising a human
heavy chain variable region gene derived from a VH gene segment selected from a VH2-5,
VH3-23, VH3-30, VH4-39, VH4-59, VH5-51, and derived from a 0 gene segment selected
from a 01-7, 01-26, 03-3, 03-16, 03-10, 03-22, 05-5, 05-12, 06-6, 06-13, and 07-27.
17.      The method of claim 10, wherein the human VK1-39 gene segment is present in a
rearrangement with a human      JK5 gene segment.
18.      The method of claim 10, wherein the human VK3-20 gene segment is present in a
rearrangement with a human JK1 gene segment.
19.      The method of claim 10, wherein steps (a) through (d) are performed a first time for a
first antigen of interest to generate a first human heavy chain variable region sequence, and
steps (a) through (d) are performed a second time for a second antigen of interest to
generate a second human heavy chain variable region sequence, and wherein the first
human heavy chain variable region sequence is expressed fused with a first human heavy
chain constant region to form a first human heavy chain, the second human heavy chain
variable region sequence is expressed fused with a second human heavy chain constant
region to form a second human heavy chain, wherein the first and the second human heavy
chains are expressed in the presence of a single human light chain derived from a VK1-39 or
a VK3-20 gene segment.
20.      The method of claim 19, wherein the first human heavy chain comprises a
modification that eliminates or substantially reduces the affinity of the first human heavy
chain to protein A, and the second human heavy chain retains the ability to bind protein A.

21.    The method of claim 20, wherein the modification that eliminates or substantially
reduces affinity of the first human heavy chain to protein A is selected from a 95R (EU
435R), a 96F (EU 436F), and a combination thereof.

                                             <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                 Mouse
                                                  CK
                                           enh            enh
                               Mouse                       Mouse
                            VK3-7 Leader                    CK
RT   NEO   FRT
                  Human                Human
                                                    enh            enh
                  VK3-15              VK1-39JK5
                 Promoter
                                                                                 1/3
           + FLP
                               Mouse                       Mouse
                            VK3-7 Leader                    CK
     FRT
                  Human                Human
                                                    enh            enh
                  VK3-15              VK1-39JK5
                 Promoter
                   Figure 1

                                             <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
                                                 Mouse
                                                  CK
                                           enh            enh
                               Mouse                       Mouse
                            VK3-7 Leader                    CK
RT   NEO   FRT
                  Human                Human
                                                    enh            enh
                  VK3-15              VK3-20JK1
                 Promoter
                                                                                 2/3
           + FLP
                               Mouse                       Mouse
                            VK3-7 Leader                    CK
     FRT
                  Human                Human
                                                    enh            enh
                  VK3-15              VK3-20JK1
                 Promoter
                   Figure 2

                                             <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                     Mouse
                                                      CK
                                           enh                enh
                               Mouse                           Mouse
                            VK3-7 Leader                        CK
RT   NEO   FRT
                  Human                Human
                                                        enh            enh
                  VK3-15              VpreBJ 5
                 Promoter                        <U+2702>
                                                                                     3/3
           + FLP
                               Mouse                           Mouse
                            VK3-7 Leader                        CK
     FRT
                  Human                Human
                                                        enh            enh
                  VK3-15              VpreBJ 5
                 Promoter                        <U+2702>
                   Figure 3

<removed-date>
                                            !"#
                              $         $   %##
                              &            '#
                        $ &             '() *
                              + ,        #-. / 0
                         !((!#              1"      "' #   !)
<removed-apn>
                2
                3        ! 4        '        1# -
                3
                5       6 72
                5
                6
                8       9'              :!.         #-!/   & .   !# 30
                        2 55
                        $
                    2     . : ; '*                  ) #;
                    2    %# "           ;
               3
              11;1;1;;1           '1;     1''             ''';' ;     '     1';''   1''' 1;' '      1    ;; ; ;    6
                  '''' ''           1 '' 1            ;    ;''1''     ''1; 11           1' 1;; ;      ; ;;;;'';
              ' 1' '1''1            1 '1;' ''         ' ; ' 1'''     '' ;;'         ;;; 1 1;;       ';'';''; '
              ;; 111' 1           ''''; ;             ;;; 1; ;       '1 ;;     ;      ; ';';; '     ; ;;';' ;        3
              ' ; 1 1';           ;'''';'' '          ; 1 ;'11'      ''1' ;;;11     '''1'1;'''      '''1'; ;;      2
                 '1'11 1          ;'1'1' ;;             ' 1;;'; '     ; 1 ;' ;      ; '1''1111          1 1'1 '    26
              1'11''1'1;          '1'1; 1 '           ''     ; ';       1;    1';       ;;'; 1 '         ;; '';'   3
              ';'';'';;'          ;'1;'';';;          ;' '';' ;'     ;'11';''';         ; '1 ';       ;;''11;      3
               '1 ; ;'1           ''' ; ; ;             ';; ;;' ;    ';'1;'1; '     1''11      1'     '; ;' ';'    53
              '' '1 '; 1            '1;    ; 1           ;' '' 1     1''''' '1'     ;''1';;;''        1 '' ';'1    6
              1;    ;; ;          '1;;'1 '1           ;1 ;'1            11' ;';;    ' 1;';';'         ' ';;;'1;    66
              ' ' 1 ; ''            ' ' ' 1 '         1''' ;;1 1     ''1;''1'1        ' '' '1;        1 1     ;    8
              ' 1 ' 1             '      ;; ;           ' ' ;' ;      ; ; ;1          ;' '''''      '''';;1 ;      8
              ''1 '11 ;           ''' '' '               11' ;' '    '1 '1' '''     ' '      '        ;' '';';'      3
                 1';;;1'          1'' ' 1             ;    1;;'1'    ;' '1 ;; ;     '     ;;''11      '';''1;;     <
              1'''''' '             '; 11'1;'         '1 ;'';'11      '' 1' 11      '1;      ;;       ' 1 ;; 1     <6
              111;''1''           ''1';''''1          ' '';'111      '1'' '''1'         1 1 ''1'    ''1''11';'
              1;'';'11';          ' 111'';;               ' '1'1     '';'      1'     '' 11' 1'       1'1'' ''
               1'1 '1';           '111' 111           111'' 1'       1''11 1 1'     1 ';     '1;    ';'1' ''1              3
              ';;''' ;'             '11'    ''        '1'1 1 1       '1'1 '1 1      ''11''''1;      ; '1'' '
              ''    11; 1         ;11' '''';          ' ; 11'         '1'; 1''1     '; ;       ;    1 1; ''1 '           6
              '1 ' '     '          1' '' 1'          1' 1'; 1 '     1 1; 1'' '          '' '''     ''''';''''         2
                 '' 1;;1          ;' ';' ''           1 ;; 1'' '     ; ' 1 '''        1     ' ;       '    ;;          2
              '''; 1 ; '          ;'1;'; ' '          '11 '11 ';     ;'1 ' 1 ;      ';'1 ';';       '1' ' 11''         33
              ';;1'1';';          '111''1 '           '1 '; 1'        ;''     ;''   1;'' ;11;'      '1;;' 11'1         5
              ;' ; ' 1 ;          '111; 1;;'          11';' 1 1'     ; 1 ''';'1     ''1        ;'   ;       '';        56
              ;'''1'111           ' 1 11; 11          1 '' 11''      '1; ;'11'      ;;; ;'1'''      ';' '; ''          6
              ;''1;''' 1          '''11 1 '           ; 11''1'       ''1      '';   '1'; ; ;'            ;;' ;1'       6
               ;;'' '' 1          ;'; '111'           1' 1'; 111     ;' ' 1'11      ' '11''1'1      '1''1 1'''         83
              ';';'1;                ' ' 1            ; '';'11;         1 1;;'''    ;' ; ; 11       1 11'     '1
              1 1' 1'11           '1''1'''1'          ;';'11'1;1     ''' ; ; 1      '1;';''111      '11'1 ; '              6
              ;'; ;'1';           1'1;;'';'1          ';     ; 11    ;; 1';'';;     '111;11;1;      '11' 1; ;'         <
              1 1;'1'1'1          1''1''1;'1          1 11 ;     1   ;'1; 1'''1     ; ;'1; 1'           1;' ' 11       <
              '1 ;' ' '           ;'';' ;;;'          1'' ;      '   '111;'1; 1     ;;'11''1;       ''1''1;' ;             3
              ; ; ; ; '           1; ; ;'1'1          ' 11'1';'1     ';';'; ;;      1; ' 111 1      ; 1; 1; ;
                                                                           +'1

<removed-date>
              111 ;;'11          1'111 ';'    1' ''1 1      ' 1'1;'';;    ; 1 11;;'       ' 1' 1;      6
              ;;' 1;; ;         ; 1 ; 1'       ;'; ' ''      '111;'      1 ;'; 11         ''1   ;;
              ;;'1 ;;;;         1''     ;;'       ; ;'1'    1 1' 1 ;;'   ''' ' ;         '''''    '
              '' 1''''11         ;; ; 1; 1     1''11;        '''1' ' '    ''''' ''     ;    1 1      23
              ' ;' ;;'1         1 1;;'1' 1     1';' ;;'1    ' 1';;;'1    ; ;;' ;; ;    ;; 1 ; 1;' 3
                ; 1 '11'1       ';'1'1 ;';    ;' ;'; 1;     ;111;''1 ;   '1'1;' '1     ;'1; '     ' 36
              '' 11 ' ;         '1;'1''';;    '111'''1;;    ;; ''1; ;;    1' ; ' 1;      1;' ;;'1    5
                 1;'''1 1       111 ;;;' ;    ''11 ;'1      11;'1 11'    ; 111';'1'        ;'; ; ; 5
              ';;' ;'1;'        1 ; 1;'';;     1''1'        1;''; ';     '; 1 ;'';'    1'1 ';'1      63
              ';;;; ;;1'         ;';; ;11     ;;''111';'    ;1'; 11'1'      ''';1 ''   1 ''       ; 8
              '; ' 1 ;           ; 1'''       111 ; 1' 1    1;;'1 ' 1    ';     '1'1   1; ''' '1 86
              1'1     11 '      ''1' 11 '     '' 1'111;'       ''1'      1;;' 111      1;''''1 '
<removed-apn>
              ''; ;'1;          ;''''' 11'       11'1'''    ''''1' ''    ' 1; ; ''     '; 1'' 1';
              ';'''1 '''        ''''''''1     1 ''; ''''    '11'';;;     1 '    ; ''   11'1;''''1 <3
                '''    '            1 ;';     ; 1;;'''      ' 1 ' 11        1 1; 1'       ' 1;' 1' 2
                ';'1''''1        11''''' '    ;'       '1    ;   ; ;;;        1   1'     ''' '      2 6
                1 ;'1';''       ;'' '''''     ;'' '1;';1    ;;; ''1' ;    '1' 1;' 1    ; ;1'1 1;; 2
              '     ;' ';       ; ;   ; ;;    1;';;;1';'     '1'                                    2 55
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*         ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3
              '11 1'111         ';'1' ''1     1    ' 1'1
                     2
                         8
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*         ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3    2
               1';''' 1; ;; ''         ' ' 1 1' ;'                                                  8
                     3
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*         ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3    3
              111;''1 ;' 1'1;'         '1; '
                     5
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*         ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3    5
               1;'''; 11 ' 1;'1;' ' 1
                     6
                         <
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*         ) #;
                                                                +'1

<removed-date>
                    2        %# "      ;
               3    6
              11 11'1'11 ; '               ;11;                                                                <
                         8
                             8
                         $
                    2        .   : ; '*           ) #;
<removed-apn>
                    2        %# "      ;
               3    8
              1'';';11;1 1;' ;'1                                                                               8
                             2
                         $
                    2        .   : ; '*           ) #;
                    2        %# "      ;
               3
               111;';''; '1';'' ;11 ; 1                                                                        2
                         <
                             <
                         $
                    2        .   : ; '*           ) #;
                    2        %# "      ;
               3         <
              ;;'       ' 1'        1; ;;' 1;;       ; ; 1   ;                                                 <
                             6
                         $
                    2        .   : ; '*           ) #;
                    2        %# "      ;
               3
              ' ;'1;'1'' ';;'111''' 1;;;;                                                                      6
                         2 66
                         $
                    2      . : ; '*               ) #;
                    2        %# "      ;
               3
              11;1;1;;1             '1;   1''           ''';' ;    '     1';''   1''' 1;' '   1  ;; ; ;    6
                  '''' ''            1 '' 1         ;    ;''1''    ''1; 11         1' 1;; ;    ; ;;;;'';
              ' 1' '1''1             1 '1;' ''      ' ; ' 1'''    '' ;;'         ;;; 1 1;;    ';'';''; '
              ;; 111' 1             ''''; ;         ;;; 1; ;      '1 ;;     ;     ; ';';; '   ; ;;';' ;      3
              ' ; 1 1';             ;'''';'' '      ; 1 ;'11'     ''1' ;;;11     '''1'1;'''   '''1'; ;;    2
                 '1'11 1            ;'1'1' ;;         ' 1;;'; '    ; 1 ;' ;      ; '1''1111     1 1'1 '    26
              1'11''1'1;            '1'1; 1 '       ''     ; ';      1;    1';     ;;'; 1 '      ;; '';'   3
              ';'';'';;'            ;'1;'';';;      ;' '';' ;'    ;'11';''';       ; '1 ';     ;;''11;     3
               '1 ; ;'1             ''' ; ; ;         ';; ;;' ;   ';'1;'1; '     1''11   1'    '; ;' ';'   53
                                                                        +'1 2

<removed-date>
              '' '1 '; 1          '1;    ; 1      ;' '' 1     1''''' '1'     ;''1';;;''        1 '' ';'1       6
              1;    ;; ;        '1;;'1 '1      ;1 ;'1            11' ;';;    ' 1;';';'         ' ';;;'1;       66
              ' ' 1 ; ''          ' ' ' 1 '    1''' ;;1 1     ''1;''1'1        ' '' '1;        1 1       ;     8
              ' 1 ' 1           '      ;; ;      ' ' ;' ;       ; ; ;1         ;' '''''      '''';;1 ;         8
              ''1 '11 ;         ''' '' '          11' ;' '    '1 '1' '''     ' '      '        ;' '';';'         3
                 1';;;1'        1'' ' 1        ;    1;;'1'    ;' '1 ;; ;     '     ;;''11      '';''1;;        <
              1'''''' '           '; 11'1;'    '1 ;'';'11       '' 1' 11     '1;      ;;       ' 1 ;; 1        <6
              111;''1''         ''1';''''1     ' '';'111      '1'' '''1'         1 1 ''1'    ''1''11';'
              1;'';'11';        ' 111'';;          ' '1'1     '';'      1'     '' 11' 1'       1'1'' ''
               1'1 '1';         '111' 111      111'' 1'       1''11 1 1'     1 ';     '1;    ';'1' ''1               3
              ';;''' ;'           '11'    ''   '1'1 1 1       '1'1 '1 1      ''11''''1;      ; '1'' '
              ''    11; 1       ;11' '''';     ' ; 11'          '1'; 1''1    '; ;       ;    1 1; ''1 '           6
<removed-apn>
              '1 ' '     '        1' '' 1'     1' 1'; 1 '     1 1; 1'' '          '' '''     ''''';''''         2
                 '' 1;;1        ;' ';' ''      1 ;; 1'' '     ; ' 1 '''        1     ' ;       '     ;;         2
              '''; 1 ; '        ;'1;'; ' '     '11 '11 ';     ;'1 ' 1 ;      ';'1 ';';       '1' ' 11''         33
              ';;1'1';';        '111''1 '      '1 '; 1'         ;''    ;''   1;'' ;11;'      '1;;' 11'1         5
              ;' ; ' 1 ;        '111; 1;;'     11';' 1 1'     ; 1 ''';'1     ''1        ;'   ;         '';      56
              ;'''1'111         ' 1 11; 11     1 '' 11''      '1; ;'11'      ;;; ;'1'''      ';' '; ''          6
              ;''1;''' 1        '''11 1 '      ; 11''1'       ''1      '';   '1'; ; ;'            ;;' ;1'       6
               ;;'' '' 1        ;'; '111'      1' 1'; 111     ;' ' 1'11      ' '11''1'1      '1''1 1'''         83
              ';';'1;              ' ' 1       ; '';'11;         1 1;;'''    ;' ; ; 11       1 11'       '1
              1 1' 1'11         '1''1'''1'     ;';'11'1;1     ''' ; ; 1      '1;';''111      '11'1 ; '               6
              ;'; ;'1';         1'1;;'';'1     ';     ; 11    ;; 1';'';;     '111;11;1;      '11' 1; ;'         <
              1 1;'1'1'1        1''1''1;'1     1 11 ;     1   ;'1; 1'''1     ; ;'1; 1'           1;' ' 11       <
              '1 ;' ' '         ;'';' ;;;'     1'' ;      '   '111;'1; 1     ;;'11''1;       ''1''1;' ;              3
              ; ; ; ; '         1; ; ;'1'1     ' 11'1';'1     ';';'; ;;      1; ' 111 1      ; 1; 1; ;
              111 ;;'11           1'111 ';'    1' ''1 1       ' 1'1;'';;       ; 1 11;;'         ' 1' 1;             6
              ;;' 1;; ;         ; 1 ; 1'         ;'; ' ''       '111;'       1 ;'; 11            ''1     ;;
              ;;'1 ;;;;         1''      ;;'        ; ;'1'    1 1' 1 ;;'     ''' ' ;           '''''       '
              '' 1''''11          ;; ; 1; 1      1''11;         '''1' ' '      ''''' ''      ;     1 1          23
              ' ;' ;;'1         1 1;;'1' 1       ' ';;';;1    1'1''' 1       1 1';1;'1         ; ;;'11;'        3
              ;;; 1 ;           1 ; ;;'111     1'''1'1;;'     ;;; ; ;; 1     ;'111;;'1       ;'1'1 1 '          36
              1;'1;'1; '        ; '1;; 11        ';;'1;'1'    '';; 11;;'     11; ;;;'11      ; ;; ;' ;          5
              ' 11 1;' ;        ;'1;'111;;     '; 11;' ;;     ;'1';'11       ;'1 11;'1       111 ; 111'         5
              ;'1'; ;';           ; ;';;' ;    '1;'1'; 11     '1;; 1''1'           1;'1 1      ' '; 1 ;         63
              '1;'1 ' 11          '1; ;';;       11';1 ;1     1;;''111';     ;''11 11''      ' ;''';1 '         8
              '1 ''             ;'; ' 1 ;         ; 1'''        111 ; 1'     11;;'1 '        1';        '1'     86
              11; ''' '         11'1     11    '''1' 11       ''' 1'111;     '     ''1'        1;;' 111
               1;''''1          '''; ;'1;        ;''''' 11    '     11'1''   '''''1' '       '' 1; ; '
              ''; 1'' 1'        ;';'''1 ''     '''''''''1       1 ''; '''    ''11'';;;         1 '      ; '      <3
              '11'1;''''        1 '''     '         1 ;';       ; 1;;'''       ' 1 ' 1       1 1 1; 1          2
              ' ' 1;' 1         ' ';'1''''     1 11'''''      ';'        '   1 ;     ; ;;    ;       1     1   2 6
              ' ''' '              1 ;'1';'    ';'' '''''       ;'' '1;';    1;;; ''1'       ; '1' 1;'         2
              1; ;1'1 1;        ;'     ;' '    ;; ;     ; ;   ;1;';;;1';     ' '1'                             2 66
                         <
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*          ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3
               ;;'11;';; ; 1 ;           1                                                                      <
                         2
                         6
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*          ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3     2
              ''1 '1; 1;         1; '';';      ; 1';                                                            6
                         3
                                                                  +'1   3

<removed-date>
                         3
                     $
                 2       .       : ; '*     ) #;
                 2       %# "        ;
               3     3
              '''1'1;;'; ;; ; ;; 1; '111                                                                             3
                         5
                     2       8
<removed-apn>
                     $
                 2       .       : ; '*     ) #;
                 2       %# "        ;
               3      5
              11;1;1;;1           '1;     1''        ''';' ;      '     1';''   1''' 1;' '      1    ;; ; ;      6
                  '''' ''           1 '' 1       ;    ;''1''      ''1; 11           1' 1;; ;      ; ;;;;'';
              ' 1' '1''1            1 '1;' ''    ' ; ' 1'''     '' ;;'          ;;; 1 1;;       ';'';''; '
              ;; 111' 1           ''''; ;        ;;; 1; ;       '1 ;;      ;      ; ';';; '     ; ;;';' ;          3
              ' ; 1 1';           ;'''';'' '     ; 1 ;'11'      ''1' ;;;11      '''1'1;'''      '''1'; ;;        2
                 '1'11 1          ;'1'1' ;;        ' 1;;'; '      ; 1 ;' ;      ; '1''1111          1 1'1 '      26
              1'11''1'1;          '1'1; 1 '      ''     ; ';        1;    1';       ;;'; 1 '         ;; '';'     3
              ';'';'';;'          ;'1;'';';;     ;' '';' ;'     ;'11';''';          ; '1 ';       ;;''11;        3
               '1 ; ;'1           ''' ; ; ;        ';; ;;' ;    ';'1;'1; '      1''11      1'     '; ;' ';'      53
              '' '1 '; 1            '1;    ; 1      ;' '' 1     1''''' '1'      ;''1';;;''        1 '' ';'1      6
              1;    ;; ;          '1;;'1 '1      ;1 ;'1             11' ;';;    ' 1;';';'         ' ';;;'1;      66
              ' ' 1 ; ''            ' ' ' 1 '    1''' ;;1 1     ''1;''1'1         ' '' '1;        1 1      ;     8
              ' 1 ' 1             '      ;; ;      ' ' ;' ;       ; ; ;1          ;' '''''      '''';;1 ;        8
              ''1 '11 ;           ''' '' '          11' ;' '    '1 '1' '''      ' '      '        ;' '';';'        3
                 1';;;1'          1'' ' 1        ;    1;;'1'    ;' '1 ;; ;      '     ;;''11      '';''1;;       <
              1'''''' '             '; 11'1;'    '1 ;'';'11       '' 1' 11      '1;      ;;       ' 1 ;; 1       <6
              111;''1''           ''1';''''1     ' '';'111      '1'' '''1'          1 1 ''1'    ''1''11';'
              1;'';'11';          ' 111'';;          ' '1'1     '';'       1'     '' 11' 1'       1'1'' ''
               1'1 '1';           '111' 111      111'' 1'       1''11 1 1'      1 ';     '1;    ';'1' ''1                3
              ';;''' ;'             '11'    ''   '1'1 1 1       '1'1 '1 1       ''11''''1;      ; '1'' '
              ''    11; 1         ;11' '''';     ' ; 11'          '1'; 1''1     '; ;       ;    1 1; ''1 '             6
              '1 ' '     '          1' '' 1'     1' 1'; 1 '     1 1; 1'' '           '' '''     ''''';''''           2
                 '' 1;;1          ;' ';' ''      1 ;; 1'' '     ; ' 1 '''         1     ' ;       '     ;;           2
              '''; 1 ; '          ;'1;'; ' '     '11 '11 ';     ;'1 ' 1 ;       ';'1 ';';       '1' ' 11''           33
              ';;1'1';';          '111''1 '      '1 '; 1'         ;''     ;''   1;'' ;11;'      '1;;' 11'1           5
              ;' ; ' 1 ;          '111; 1;;'     11';' 1 1'     ; 1 ''';'1      ''1        ;'   ;        '';         56
              ;'''1'111           ' 1 11; 11     1 '' 11''      '1; ;'11'       ;;; ;'1'''      ';' '; ''            6
              ;''1;''' 1          '''11 1 '      ; 11''1'       ''1       '';   '1'; ; ;'            ;;' ;1'         6
               ;;'' '' 1          ;'; '111'      1' 1'; 111     ;' ' 1'11       ' '11''1'1      '1''1 1'''           83
              ';';'1;                ' ' 1       ; '';'11;          1 1;;'''    ;' ; ; 11       1 11'      '1
              1 1' 1'11           '1''1'''1'     ;';'11'1;1     ''' ; ; 1       '1;';''111      '11'1 ; '                6
              ;'; ;'1';           1'1;;'';'1     ';     ; 11    ;; 1';'';;      '111;11;1;      '11' 1; ;'           <
              1 1;'1'1'1          1''1''1;'1     1 11 ;     1   ;'1; 1'''1      ; ;'1; 1'           1;' ' 11         <
              '1 ;' ' '           ;'';' ;;;'     1'' ;      '   '111;'1; 1      ;;'11''1;       ''1''1;' ;               3
              ; ; ; ; '           1; ; ;'1'1     ' 11'1';'1     ';';'; ;;       1; ' 111 1      ; 1; 1; ;
              111 ;;'11             1'111 ';'    1' ''1 1       ' 1'1;'';;        ; 1 11;;'         ' 1' 1;              6
              ;;' 1;; ;           ; 1 ; 1'         ;'; ' ''       '111;'        1 ;'; 11            ''1    ;;
              ;;'1 ;;;;           1''      ;;'        ; ;'1'    1 1' 1 ;;'      ''' ' ;           '''''      '
              '' 1''''11            ;; ; 1; 1      1''11;         '''1' ' '       ''''' ''      ;     1 1            23
              ' ;' ;;'1           1 1;;'1' 1       1 1 11 ;     ; ;'1;;11       1; 1;' ;'1      ;;1;;11;;'           3
               1 ;; ;11;          ;; 11'';;      ';'' ;;1;;       ;';; 1;';     ;; 1'11'';      1';;' 1';'           36
               ;11 1 1 '          ;'1;1 ; ';       11 ';;'1;    '1'11;;111      ;;';;; ;;;      '11 ;; 1;            5
               1'1' '             ; ;';'' ;'     1';''1'1;;     '111;;;;;'      11 ;;;;;;       ;1; ; ; 1            5
              1' ;;'''1'            1 11;;'11    '';'11111      '      1'1;'    ; ; 1'1; 1      ;'1;; 1'11           63
              ';1'11; '           1 ' '; 1       1; ' 1;' '     '; ;'1 1';      1;' 1 1         11;'1;111'           8
              ;;;'1; ;';          ;1      ''1    ''1 ''           ;'; ' 1       ; ; 1'''            111 ; 1'         86
               11;;'1 '             1';     '1   '11; '''       '11'1      11     '''1' 11        ''' 1'111
              ;'    ''1'             1;;' 111       1;''''1       '''; ;'1;         ;''''' 1    1'      11'1'
              ''''''1'            ''' 1; ;       '''; 1'' 1     ';';'''1 '      ''''''''''      1 1 ''; ''           <3
                                                                       +'1 5

<removed-date>
              '''11'';;;    1 '   ; ''11'1;''' '1 '''    '       1 ;' ; ; 1;;''   2
              ' ' 1 '    11 1 1; 1' ' 1;' 1' ';'1''' '1 11''''' ';'               2 6
              '1 ;   ; ; ;;     1   1' ''' '      1 ;'1'; '';'' '''' ' ;'' '1;'   2
              ;1;;; ''1' ; '1' 1;' 1; ;1'1 1 ;;'      ;'   ';; ;   ; ;;1;';;;1'   2
              ;' '1'                                                              2 8
                         6
                         8
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*               ) #;
<removed-apn>
                 2       %# "      ;
               3     6
               1 ;; ;11; ;;            11'                                        8
                         8
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*               ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3     8
              ;;1' 1 ;'         11 ;1        ;;
                         2
                     $
                 2       .   : ; '*               ) #;
                 2       %# "      ;
               3
              ';'' ;;1;;         ;';; 1;'; ;;                                     2
                                                         +'1   6

