                                ABSTRACT
There is disclosed an energy attenuation system for a child safety seat comprising
a cushion member mountable to the child safety seat, the cushion member having
a rear portion and/or a pair of wing portions to define a space into which the child
is to be received, wherein a surface of the rear portion and/or the wing portions
of the cushion member comprises a resilient material extending over at least one
air cavity formed within the cushion member, such that impact between the
surface of the child's head and the resilient material causes the air cavity to be
compressed to absorb energy associated with said impact.

10
   '17

             Energy Attenuation System for a Child Safety Seat
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   The present invention claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent
 5 Application No. 2012904260, filed 1 October 2012, the entire contents of which
   are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF INVENTION
   The present invention generally relates to an energy attenuation system for a
   child safety seat, and in particular, to an energy attenuation system for use with a
10 child safety seat that provides head support and positioning whilst a child is
   seated therein.
   BACKGROUND ART
   Child restraints have been developed to improve the safety of children travelling
   in vehicles. A variety of different types of child restraints have been developed
15 for this purpose, with most child restraints consisting of a seat or chair which is
   supported on a rear seat of a vehicle, for receiving the child therein.
   There exist a variety of types of child safety seats that are approved for use with
   children of a variety of ages and/or sizes. Type A seats typically refer to rear
   facing seats or capsules suitable for accommodating babies/infants up to around 6
20 months of age and/or 70cm in length and up 12kg. Type B seats typically refer to
   forward facing seats used to accommodate toddlers and young children from
   approximately 6 months to 4 years, or from 8 - 18kg. Type E seats typically
   refer to booster seats and booster cushions used to accommodate children
   between 4 - 8 years old, or approximately from 14 - 32kg, and which are
25 typically used in combination with the vehicle seat belt. Some seats may be a
   combination type A/B or B/E to accommodate a child as they child grows thereby
   avoiding the need to purchase, or otherwise source, a variety of different seats to
   accommodate a growing child.
   For Type A, Type B, Type A/B and Type B/E child safety seats, it has been
30 known to employ a headrest within the seat shell that is attached to an inner face
   of the backrest portion thereof, to support and receive the child's head and neck
   region, when seated therein. The headrest is typically formed to comprise a
   curved body having a pair of wing portions and extend along opposing sides of

   the child's head region so as to provide a degree of protection to the child's head
   region in the event of a side impact, as well as to act to limit any unwanted head
   movement of the child in the event of an accident. The headrest portion is
   typically covered with a cushion material or similar covering to provide a degree
 5 of comfort and aesthetic appeal.
   Whilst existing side wing arrangements function well as a barrier to extend
   around the child in the event of an accident, most existing arrangements have
   limited energy absorption properties. Whilst energy absorption arrangements
   have been proposed for use with child safety restraints, many such arrangements
1o only function in a single instance to protect the child and once activated require
   replacement. Further, many existing energy attenuation systems for the purpose
   of side impact protection require the purchase of a dedicated seat system that
   incorporates the energy absorption system and cannot be retrofit with existing
   seat designs.
15 Thus, there is a need to provide an energy attenuation system that is able to be
   used with existing child safety seats and which is able to function for repeated
   use without requiring replacement.
   The above references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
   intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of
20 common general knowledge in the art. In particular, the following prior art
   discussion does not relate to what is commonly or well known by the person
   skilled in the art, but assists in the understanding of the inventive step of the
   present invention of which the identification of pertinent prior art proposals is but
   one part.
25 STATEMENT OF INVENTION
   According to a first aspect, the present invention provides an energy attenuation
   system for a child safety seat comprising a cushion member mountable to the
   child safety seat, the cushion member having a rear portion and/or a pair of wing
   portions to define a space into which the child is to be received, wherein a
30 surface of the rear portion and/or the wing portions of the cushion member
   comprises a resilient material extending over at least one air cavity formed within
   the cushion member, such that impact between the surface of the child's head and
   the resilient material causes the air cavity to be compressed to absorb energy
   associated with said impact.
35 In one embodiment, the cushion member may be a headrest mountable to the

   child safety seat so as to be positioned adjacent a head region of the child seated
   therein. The headrest may be removably mountable to the child safety seat and
   may be adjustable in position with respect to the child safety seat. The headrest
   may be in the form of a head pillow.
 5 In another embodiment, the cushion member is a body support member
   mountable to the child safety seat so as to be positioned adjacent a torso region of
   the child seated therein.
   The resilient material of the cushion member may be compressible within itself
   to absorb energy associated with the impact. The resilient material may be in the
10 form of a cap member mounted to a rear wall of the rear portion and/or the pair
   of wing portions. The at least one air cavity may be formed between the cap
   member and the rear wall of the rear portion and/or the pair of wing portions.
   A periphery of the cap member may be shaped to substantially conform to a
   periphery of the rear wall of the rear portion and/or the pair of wing portions to
15 retain the cap portion in position. In a preferred form, the outer surface of the cap
   portion may be substantially convex. In such a preferred form, an inner surface
   of the cap portion may be substantially concave.
   The inner surface of the cap portion may have at least one protrusion formed
   thereon that extends into the air cavity. The at least one protrusion may be
20 configured to collapse upon said impact to further absorb energy associated with
   said impact.
   The cushion member may have a covering formed from a fabric-type material.
   The rear wall of the rear portion and/or the pair of wing portions may be formed
   from a moulded plastic material.
25 The cushion member may have one or more vents formed therein for facilitating
   release of air present within the at least one air cavities during said impact.
   The resilient material of the cushion member may have shape memory properties
   such that after impact the resilient material substantially returns to its original
   position.
30 The external dimension of the cushion member may be greater at a front portion
   than at a rear portion.
   According to a second aspect, there is provided a child safety seat incorporating

   an energy attenuation system according to the first aspect.
   According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an energy
   attenuating system for a child safety seat comprising a cushion member forming
   at least one of a side wing and/or a backrest of the child safety seat to define a
 5 space into which a child is to be received, wherein the cushion member
   comprises a first energy absorbent member attachable to an outer injection
   moulded plastic material configured to form a structure of the side wing and/or
   backrest.
   The first energy absorbent member may be formed of a thermoplastic material
10 and may be attached to an inner wall of the outer injection moulded plastic
   material so as to substantially cover the inner wall of the outer injection moulded
   plastic material.
   In a preferred form, the thermoplastic material may be made from polystyrene or
   expanded polystyrene.
15 A second energy absorbent member may be provided on an inner surface of the
   first energy absorbent member. The second energy absorbent member may
   comprise a blow moulded plastic material defining an open chamber formed
   therein.
   The open chamber may be configured to be at least partially filled with a fluid to
20 attenuate energy associated with an impact therewith. The fluid may be air or a
   gel material.
   In an embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the outer injection moulded
   plastic material at least partially surrounds the first and second energy absorbent
   members along a top and front edge thereof so as to retain the first and second
25 energy absorbent members in position with respect to the outer injection moulded
   plastic material.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting
   description of preferred embodiments, in which:
30         Figure 1 is a perspective view of the a child safety seat suitable for use
           with the present invention;
           Figure 2 is a perspective view of a child safety seat employing an energy

   attenuating headrest system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention;
   Figure 3 is a cross-sectional side view of the child safety seat of Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a sectional end view of the headrest along line A-A of Figure
 5 3;
   Figure 5 is a front view a side wing of an alternative embodiment of an
   energy attenuating headrest system in accordance with the present
   invention;
   Figure 6 is a cross-sectional top view of the headrest system of Figure 6;
10 Figure 7 is the cross-sectional top view of the headrest system of Figure 6
   in a side impact situation;
   Figure 8 is a front view of an alternative embodiment of an energy
   attenuating headrest system in accordance with the present invention;
   Figure 9 is a front view of yet another alternative embodiment of an
15 energy attenuating headrest system in accordance with the present
   invention;
   Figure 10 shows a child safety seat employing the energy attenuation
   system of the present invention;
   Figure 11 is a perspective view of an alternative embodiment of an energy
20 attenuation system in use with a child safety seat;
   Figure 12 is a top view of a pillow member of the energy attenuation
   system of Figure 11;
   Figure 13 is a front view of the pillow member of Figure 12;
   Figure 14 is a top sectional view of the pillow member of Figure 12;
25 Figure 15 is a top sectional view of an alternative embodiment of the
   pillow member of Figure 12;
   Figure 16 is a top view of the child safety seat of Figure 11;
   Figure 17 shows an alternative embodiment of an energy attenuation
   system employed within a child safety seat in accordance with the present

           invention;
           Fig. 18 is a cross-sectional top view of a headrest/backrest arrangement of
           a child safety seat incorporating an energy attenuating system in
           accordance with yet another embodiment of the present invention; and
 5         Fig. 18 is a cross-sectional top view of a headrest/backrest arrangement of
           a child safety seat incorporating an energy attenuating system in
           accordance with still yet another embodiment of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described with particular
10 reference to the accompanying drawings. However, it is to be understood that
   the features illustrated in and described with reference to the drawings are not to
   be construed as limiting on the scope of the invention.
   The present invention will be described below in relation to a Type B child safety
   seat, namely a forward facing child safety seat. However, it will be appreciated
15 that the present invention could equally be described in relation to its application
   to a Type A, Type A/B, Type E, Type B/E and Type A/B/E child safety seat, as
   well as any other combination of seat used for restraining a child in a vehicle.
   Referring firstly to Figure 1, one embodiment of the present invention employed
   in relation to a child safety seat 10 is shown. The child safety seat 10 generally
20 comprises a seat member 12, in the form of a seat shell which defines a space
   into which a child is received. The seat member 12 comprises a backrest portion
   11 against which a child's back is to be supported and a seat portion 13 which
   supports the posterior region of the child therein. The seat member 12 is
   supported on a base 14, which is configured to be positioned on a seat of a
25 vehicle (not shown) to support the seat 10 in position. The seat member 12 and
   the base 14 may be configured to facilitate movement of the seat member 12 in
   relation to the base 14 such that an angle of reclination of the seat member 12
   may be adjusted and/or the direction of orientation of the seat member 12.
   In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, to provide enhanced
30 impact protection to a child seated within the seat member 12 of the seat 10, a
   headrest member 16 having enhanced impact protection is provided. The
   headrest member 16 functions in a similar way to conventional headrest member
   in that it is configured to fit within the seat member 12 and is mounted to be
   vertically adjustable with respect to the backrest portion 11 of the seat member

   12.
   The manner in which the headrest member 16 is mounted to the backrest portion
   11 of the seat member 12 may take a variety of forms. In the embodiment as
   shown in Figure 1, a vertical slot 15 is formed in the backrest portion 11 of the
 5 seat member 12 as shown. The headrest member 16 may have a stem portion
   (not shown) provided on a rear surface thereof that extends into or through the
   slot 15 such that the stem portion is able to slide within the slot 15 to facilitate
   vertical adjustment of the headrest portion 16 with respect to the backrest portion
   11 of the seat member. The stem portion may be lockable in position by way of a
10 screw member or the like when the appropriate height of the headrest member 16
   is determined. Other means for mounting the headrest member 16 against the
   backrest portion 11 of the seat member 12 are also envisaged.
   As is shown in Figure 1, the headrest member 16 generally comprises a rear
   portion 18 and a pair of wing portions 17 that extend forward on opposing lateral
15 sides of the rear portion 18. The wing portions 17 generally extend along the
   inside surface if the seat member 12 to be positioned adjacent the sides of the
   child's head, such that the child's head is positioned therebetween. The length of
   the wing portions 17 is may vary depending upon the age and/or size of the child.
   Referring to Figure 2, the headrest member 16 is shown in more detail. The
20 headrest member 16 comprises a main body 20 which generally determines the
   overall shape of the headrest member 16. The main body 20 is preferably made
   from a plastic material through a blow moulding process. In this regard, the main
   body 20 comprises a substantially hollow body thereby defining an internal space
   between walls of the main body 20. The outside surface of the inside wall of the
25 main body 20 is positioned to be received against the inside wall of the seat
   member 12, as shown. The outer wall of the main body 20 has cap members 22,
   23 attached thereto. Cap member 22 is attached to the rear portion 18 of the
   headrest member 16 with cap members 23 attached to the wing portions 17.
   The cap members 22, 23 are substantially identical in form and form a resilient
30 padded outer surface of the headrest member 16. Each cap member 22, 23
   comprises an outer fabric cover 24 against which a child's head is received in
   use. The cover 24 extends over the surface of an internal wall member 25 of the
   cap member 22, 23. The internal wall member 25 is configured so as to form a
   gap or space 26 between the internal wall member 25 and the outside wall of the
35 main body 20. The internal wall member 25 is preferably made from a rubber,
   polyurethane foam material (PU Foam) or resilient plastic material having shape

   memory properties to ensure that the gap or space 26 is maintained even
   following a force being applied to the internal wall member to squeeze or reduce
   the gap or space 26.
   A vent 27 may be formed through the cover 24 and the internal wall member 25
 5 to provide a means for venting air from the gap or space 26 in the event of a
   pressure being applied to the internal wall member 25, as may occur in the event
   of impact between a child's head and the cover 24 of the cap member 22, 23, as
   is typical in the event of a vehicle accident or the like. In this regard, the vent 27
   may be merely an open hole that facilitates free air flow between the gap or space
10 26 and outside air. The hole may have a predetermined size to control the release
   of air from the gap or space 26 in accordance with the amount of force applied
   against the cap member 22, 23. Alternatively, the vent 27 may include a valve
   or flow limiting member that controls the release of air from the gap or space 26
   to ensure the presence of a required volume of air at all times within the gap or
15 space 26.
   In another embodiment, a vent 28 may also be provided in the outside wall of the
   main body 20 to facilitate venting of air present in the gap or space 26 into the
   internal space of the main body 20. In this regard, in the event of impact of a
   child's head with the cap member 22 or 23, air present in the gap or space 26 of
20 the cap member may pass through the vent 28 and into the internal space formed
   in the main body 20, rather than, or in combination with, the air being vented
   outside of the seat space via vent 27.
   Figure 3, shows a cross-sectional side view of the headrest member 16. This
   depiction clearly shows the manner in which the rear portion 18 of the headrest
25 16 is configured. The cap member 22 essentially fits over the main body 20 of
   the headrest 16 in the manner as shown to provide a substantially convex outer
   surface of the cap member 22 upon which the fabric cover 24 is provided. The
   gap or space 26 formed between the internal wall member 25 and the outside
   wall of the main body 20 is maintained due to the resilient nature of the internal
30 wall member 25, and due to the shape member properties of the internal wall
   member 25, in the event of a force being applied to the cap member 22 to reduce
   the volume of the gap or space 26, after application of the force, the internal wall
   member 25 will return to its original position to ensure that the gap or space 26 is
   maintained. In this regard, the provision of the vents 27 and/or 28 enable the gap
35 or space 26 to "breathe" to ensure that air flows in to fill up the space 26.
   Referring to Figure 4, there is shown a cross-sectional view of the headrest 16

   depicting the manner in which the wing portion 17 of the headrest 16 is
   configured. In this regard, the cap member 23 is configured to fit over the main
   body 20 of the headrest 16 such that the outer surface of the cap member 23 is
   substantially convex as shown. As is the case with the rear portion 18, the gap or
 5 space 26 formed between the internal wall member 25 and the outside wall of the
   main body 20 is maintained due to the resilient nature of the internal wall
   member 25. In this regard, due to the shape memory properties of the internal
   wall member 25, in the event of a force being applied to the cap member 23 to
   reduce the volume of the gap or space 26, after application of the force has been
10 removed, the internal wall member 25 will substantially return to its original
   position to ensure that the gap or space 26 is maintained.
   It will be appreciated that in the embodiment of the present invention as shown in
   Figures 1 - 4, the provision of the headrest 16 having flexible cap members 22,
   23 provided over the inner surfaces acts to attenuate the transfer of energy
15 between a child's head and the seat in the event of a vehicle accident. The
   provision of the resilient internal wall members 25 that maintain the internal gap
   or space 26 within the headrest 16 ensures that the headrest 16 retains its energy
   attenuating properties even after impact.
   Referring to Figures 5 - 7, an alternative embodiment of a headrest arrangement
20 in accordance with the present invention is shown. As is shown in Figures 6 and
   7, in this embodiment, the rear portion 18 of the headrest is configured
   substantially as described above in relation to Figures 1 - 4. With the wing
   portions 17 differing in construction. However, it will be appreciated that both
   the rear portion and the wing portions of the cap member may be formed in the
25 manner as to be described below.
    Referring firstly to Figure 5, a front view of one of the side wing portions 17 is
   shown with internal componentry represented. The wing portion 17 generally
   comprises a flexible cap 30 that fits over the inside surface of the wing portion
   17. The cap 30 is generally formed from a resilient rubber or flexible
30 polyurethane material and is fixed to the blow moulded main body 20 of the
   headrest at its perimeter 31. The manner in which the cap 30 is fixed to the main
   body 20 is through an adhesive, although other means for fixing the cap 30 are
   also envisaged. In this regard, the ends of the cap 30 are shaped to substantially
   conform to the shape of the main body 20 to ensure maximum adhesion between
35 the main body 20 and the cap 30 about its perimeter 31.
   As is shown more clearly in the top sectional view of Figure 6 and as represented

   by the dashed circular lines in Figure 5, the internal surface of the cap 30 is
   provided with multiple collapsible finger elements 32. The finger elements 32
   are configured to extend towards an internal surface of the main body 20, as
   shown, but terminate prior to contacting the internal surface of the main body 20.
 5 In such an arrangement, an air pocket 35 is formed between the cap 30 and the
   internal surface of the main body 20, which also extends between the finger
   elements 32, as shown. The air pocket 35 is vented externally by way of vents 33
   formed in the cap 30. In addition to, and/or in replace of the vents 33, vent 34
   may be provided in the internal wall of the main body 20 to provide venting of
10 the air pocket 35 into the internal region of the main body 20.
   As is clearly shown in Figure 6, the external surface of the cap 30 tapers inwards
   towards the rear portion 18 to reduce the likelihood of a child's head rolling
   forward in the event of impact. As discussed previously, the outer surface of the
   cap 30 may be provided with a cover made from a soft material for comfort.
15 Referring to Figure 7, the headrest 16 is shown in a side impact situation, as
   represented by arrows 'X'. In this regard, force is applied in the direction of the
   arrows 'X' to the child safety seat along one side, as is typical in a side impact
   vehicle accident. The force of the impact causes the outer wall of the main body
   20 in the region where the force is applied to bow, thereby reducing the size of
20 the cavity between the walls of the main body 20, as shown. This causes some
   degree of initial energy attenuation.
   The forces of the impact also cause the child's head 5 to impact against the cap
   30. This impact causes the cap 30 to compress against the inner wall of the main
   body 20, thereby causing the air pocket 35 to become reduced and to attenuate
25 energy from the impact. In doing so, the flexible finger elements 32 collapse and
   absorb energy of the impact in the process, in the manner as shown. Air present
   in the air pocket 35 can pass into the internal cavity of the main body via vent 34.
   It will be appreciated that in this arrangement, the headrest construction may
   function to not only cushion impact of the child's head but to attenuate or absorb
30 energy associated with the impact. The manner in which the headrest 16
   performs this function also ensures that the child's head 5 remains securely
   within the protective headrest 16 as the shape of the surface of the cap 30
   becomes concave to prevent the child's head rolling out of the headrest 16, as
   shown. It will be appreciated that in another embodiment of the present
35 invention, the cap 30 may be formed by an outer skin of injection moulded
   plastic.

   Figure 8 represents a variation of an embodiment of wing portions 17 of the
   headrest of the present invention. In this embodiment, rather than the cap 30
   having flexible finger elements extending inwardly towards the inner surface of
   the main body 20 of the headrest, a lattice arrangement of thin flexible walls 36
 5 may be provided on an internal surface thereof to define multiple air cavities.
   Figure 9 shows yet another embodiment of a side wing portion 17 of the headrest
   of the present invention. In this embodiment, the flexible cap 30 is formed is
   formed to have a series of linked air cavities 37 formed therein, as shown. Each
   of the linked air cavities 37 feed into a vent hole 38 that are able to vent air
10 present therein to the internal cavity of the main body or externally from the
   cavities in the event of compression of the cap 30, as a result of impact.
   Whilst the present invention has been described in each of the embodiments of
   Figures 2 - 9 above in terms of an adjustable energy attenuating headrest 16, it
   will be appreciated that the invention could also be extended to a body protection
15 insert 40, that extends about the lower region of the child's body, as shown in
   Figure 10. The same construction principles of energy attenuation are applied to
   the body protection insert 40 as are discussed above.
   A variation of the present invention as shown in Figure 10 is depicted in Figure
   11. In this arrangement, rather than the headrest 16 of Figure 10 being a
20 structural component of the child safety seat 10, a pillow member 50 may be
   provided to achieve this function. The pillow member 50 acts to attenuate energy
   in a side impact situation, but is a separate member that attaches to the seat 10, to
   be used with existing child safety seats. As discussed above, the pillow member
   50 may be used with a body protection insert 40, or any other similar energy
25 absorption cushion arrangement.
   As is shown in isolation in Figure 12, the pillow member 50 has a rear portion 52
   that is configured to be received against the backrest portion of the safety seat in
   the manner as shown in Figure 11, and has two wing portions 53 that extend from
   opposing ends of the rear portion 52. Webbing straps 54, or similar attachment
30 members, are provided on a rear surface of the rear portion to facilitate
   securement of the pillow member 50 to the child safety seat, by passing the
   webbing straps through appropriate slots formed in the backrest portion of the
   child safety seat.
   Referring to Figure 13, in one embodiment the pillow member 50 comprises a
35 backing portion 55 that defines the overall shape of the pillow member. The
   backing member 55 is made from a substantially rigid plastic material to provide

   structural integrity of the pillow member 50.
   As is shown in Figure 14, the rear portion 52 of the backing portion 55 has a pad
   member 56 formed thereon. The pad member 56 is in the form of a resilient
   flexible material, such as rubber and the like and is secured to the front surface of
 5 the rear portion 52 so as to form an air cavity 57 between the pad member 56 and
   the surface of the rear portion 52 of the backing member 55. A vent 58 is
   provided in the wall of the pad member 56 to vent the air cavity 57, in the
   manner as previously discussed.
   The wing portions 53 of the backing portion 55 also have a pad member 59
10 formed thereon. The pad member 59 is also configured so as to form an air cavity
   60 between the pad member 59 and the surface of the wing portion 53 of the
   backing member 55. A vent 61 is also provided in the pad members 59 to vent
   the air cavities 60 as desired.
   A variation of the embodiment as shown in Figure 14 is shown in Figure 15. In
15 this embodiment, rather than the backing portion 55 being formed from a
   substantially rigid plastic moulded material, the outer side walls 62 of the wing
   portions 53 are formed from a softer padded material and are formed to engage
   with the pad members 59 in the manner as shown.
   Referring to Figure 16, a top view of the seat of Figure 11 incorporating the
20 pillow member 50 is shown. In this regard, when the pillow member 50 is in use
   it substantially conforms to the inner surface of the seat and the shape of the pad
   members 59 assist in preventing a child's head from rolling outside of the pillow
   member 50. In this regard the thickness of the pad members 59 is greater at their
   front ends than at the rear ends, which becomes further exacerbated in an impact
25 arrangement where the air cavity 60 becomes compressed.
   It will be appreciated, that in the embodiment as shown in Figures 11 - 16, the
   system functions to absorb energy associated with a side impact to reduce the
   likelihood of injury to the child and the occurrence of the child's head rolling
   forward during impact, or when asleep.
30 Referring to Figure 17, there is shown an alternative version of an energy
   attenuation system of the present invention. In this arrangement, the car seat 10
   is configured such that the wings of the seat are provide with the energy
   attenuation system described above, without the need for additional components
   to perform this function.

   As is shown, the side wings 70 of the seat 10 are provide with a resilient liner
   having a cavity or multiple cavities provided therein. Each of the side wings 70 is
   provided with one or more vents 61, as discussed previously to facilitate
   breathing for each of the cavities.          It will be appreciated that such an
 5 arrangement, overcomes the need for additional componentry to enhance energy
   attenuation.
   In each of the embodiments of the present invention described above, the energy
   attenuation system employs a flexible resilient cap member or chamber that
   defines an air cavity around a child seated in the child safety seat. Such an air
1o cavity in association with a flexible cap portion ensures that energy can be
   absorbed by the system in the event of an impact, and that the cavity reforms
   after impact due to the resilient nature of the cap member such that it continues to
   perform its function. Alternatively, the flexible resilient member may be one or
   more gel filled chamber(s).
15 Referring to Figure 18, there is shown yet another embodiment of an energy
   attenuation system of the present invention.              In his embodiment the
   headrest/backrest of the child safety seat is shown from a cross sectional top
   view. The headrest/backrest 80 comprises an outer or exterior layer of an
   injection moulded material or skin 82. As the skin 82 is made from an injected
20 moulded plastic material or the like, it has a degree of rigidity that forms the
   shape of the headrest/backrest 80 and its exterior surface. A thermoplastic liner
   84, typically made from polystyrene or expanded polystyrene (EPS) is then
   formed on an inner surface of the skin 82 as shown. The nature of the EPS
   provides an energy absorbing function and also functions to provide an additional
25 degree of rigidity to the overall shape of the headrest/backrest 80. An inner layer
   86 formed from a blow moulded material, such as plastic, is located on the inner
   walls of the headrest/backrest 80 as shown. The plastic material may be thin
   walled and have vents (not shown) formed therein such that the internal air
   cavities formed in the blow moulded material will function to absorb energy
30 associated with any impact that may result from a child's head impacting
   therewith. As will be appreciated, such a three layered arrangement provides
   improved impact protection for the child seated therein as the two innermost
   layers 84 and 86 of the headrest/backrest are energy attenuating layers.
   A similar arrangement is shown in relation to Fig. 19. Referring to Figure 19,
35 there is shown yet another embodiment of an energy attenuation system of the
   present invention. In this embodiment the headrest/backrest of the child safety

    seat is shown from a cross sectional top view. The headrest/backrest 90
   comprises an outer or exterior layer of an injection moulded material or skin 92,
   in the same manner as discussed above in relation to the embodiment of Fig. 18.
   As the skin 92 is made from an injected moulded plastic material or the like, it
 5 has a degree of rigidity that forms the shape of the headrest/backrest 90 and its
   exterior surface. A thermoplastic liner 94, typically made from polystyrene or
   expanded polystyrene (EPS) is then formed on an inner surface of the skin 92 as
   shown. The nature of the EPS provides an energy absorbing function and also
   functions to provide an additional degree of rigidity to the overall shape of the
10 headrest/backrest 90. An inner layer 96 formed of plastic or silicone material
   formed into chambers having a gel contained therein is located on the inner walls
   of the headrest /backrest 90 as shown. The gel filled chambers 96 function to
   absorb energy associated with any impact that may result from a child's head
   impacting therewith. As will be appreciated, such a three layered arrangement
1s provides improved impact protection for the child seated therein as the two
   innermost layers 94 and 96 of the headrest/backrest are energy attenuating layers.
   Throughout the specification and claims the word "comprise" and its derivatives
   are intended to have an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning unless the
   contrary is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise. That is, the word
20 "comprise" and its derivatives will be taken to indicate the inclusion of not only
   the listed components, steps or features that it directly references, but also other
   components, steps or features not specifically listed, unless the contrary is
   expressly stated or the context requires otherwise.
   The present invention also seeks to provide a wing arrangement about the child
25 seated within the child safety seat that retains the child's head within the confines
   of the seat and reduces the likelihood of the child's head rolling forward in the
   event of an accident or if the child falls asleep.
   It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and
   variations may be made to the methods of the invention described herein without
30 departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
   Orientational terms used in the specification and claims such as vertical,
   horizontal, top, bottom, upper and lower are to be interpreted as relational and are
   based on the premise that the component, item, article, apparatus, device or
   instrument will usually be considered in a particular orientation, typically with
35 the child safety seat uppermost.

The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.    An energy attenuation system for a child safety seat comprising a cushion
      member mountable to the child safety seat, the cushion member having a rear
      portion and/or a pair of wing portions to define a space into which the child is to
      be received, wherein a surface of the rear portion and/or the wing portions of the
      cushion member comprises a resilient material extending over at least one air
      cavity formed within the cushion member, such that impact between the surface
      of the child's head and the resilient material causes the air cavity to be
      compressed to absorb energy associated with said impact.
2.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 1, wherein the cushion member
      is a headrest mountable to the child safety seat so as to be positioned adjacent a
      head region of the child seated therein.
3.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 2, wherein the headrest is
      movably mountable to the child safety seat and is adjustable in position with
      respect to the child safety seat.
4.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 2, wherein the headrest is a
      head pillow.
5.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 1, wherein the cushion member
      is a body support member mountable to the child safety seat so as to be
      positioned adjacent a torso region of the child seated therein.
6.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 2, wherein the cushion member
      further comprises a body support member mountable to the child safety seat so
      as to be positioned adjacent a torso region of the child seated therein.
7.    An energy attenuation system according to any one of the preceding claims,
      wherein the resilient material is compressible within itself to absorb energy
      associated with the impact.
8.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 7, wherein the resilient material
      is in the form of a cap member mounted to a rear wall of the rear portion and/or
      the pair of wing portions.
9.    An energy attenuation system according to claim 8, wherein the at least one air
      cavity is formed between the cap member and the rear wall of the rear portion
      and/or the pair of wing portions.
10.   An energy attenuation system according to claim 8 or 9, wherein a periphery of
      the cap member is shaped to substantially conform with a periphery of the rear
      wall of the rear portion and/or the pair of wing portions to retain the cap portion
                                           15

    in position.
11. An energy attenuation system according to claim 10, wherein an outer surface of
    the cap portion is substantially convex.
12. An energy attenuation system according to claim 10, wherein an inner surface of
    the cap portion is substantially concave.
13. An energy attenuation system according to claim 10, wherein an inner surface of
    the cap portion has at least one protrusion formed thereon that extends into the
    air cavity.
14. An energy attenuation system according to claim 13, wherein the at least one
    protrusion is configured to collapse upon said impact to further absorb energy
    associated with said impact.
15. An energy attenuation system according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the cushion member has a covering formed from a fabric-type material.
16. An energy attenuation system according to claim 8, wherein the rear wall of the
    rear portion and/or the pair of wing portions is formed from a moulded plastic
    material.
17. An energy attenuation system according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the cushion member has one or more vent formed therein for facilitating
    release of air present within the at least one air cavities during said impact.
18. An energy attenuation system according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the resilient material has shape memory properties such that after impact
    the resilient material substantially returns to its original position.
19. An energy attenuation system according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the external dimension of the cushion member is greater at a front
    portion than at a rear portion.
20. An energy attenuating system for a child safety seat comprising a cushion
    member forming at least one of a side wing and/or a backrest of the child safety
    seat to define a space into which a child is to be received, wherein the cushion
    member comprises a first energy absorbent member attachable to an outer
    injection moulded plastic material configured to form a structure of the side wing
    and/or backrest.
21. An energy attenuating system according to claim 18, wherein the first energy
    absorbent member is formed of a thermoplastic material and is attached to an
    inner wall of the outer injection moulded plastic material so as to substantially
    cover the inner wall of the outer injection moulded plastic material.
                                          16

22. An energy attenuating system according to claim 19, wherein the thermoplastic
    material is made from polystyrene.
23. An energy attenuating system according to claim 19 or 20, wherein a second
    energy absorbent member is provided on an inner surface of the first energy
    absorbent member, the second energy absorbent member comprising a blow
    moulded plastic material defining an open chamber formed therein.
24. An energy attenuating system according to claim 21, wherein the open chamber
    is configured to be at least partially filled with a fluid to attenuate energy
    associated with an impact therewith.
25. An energy attenuating system according to claim 22, wherein the fluid may be
    air or a gel material.
26. An energy attenuating system according to any one of claims 21 - 23, wherein
    the outer injection moulded plastic material at least partially surrounds the first
    and second energy absorbent members along a top and front edge thereof so as
    to retain the first and second energy absorbent members in position with respect
    to the outer injection moulded plastic material.
27. A child safety seat incorporating an energy attenuation system according to any
    one of the preceding claims.
                                         17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
