ABSTRACT
A system for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising: a tactile
stimulation device capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and a controller that
controls the tactile stimulation device to communicate performance-related information to the
driver during movement of a racecar, the controller configured to receive vehicle information,
including vehicle information collected by vehicle sensors of the racecar, and configured to
use the vehicle information to select a tactile message to communicate to the driver via the
tactile stimulation device, the tactile message including a stimulation pattern that notifies the
driver of an optimum timing for performing a driver action corresponding to controlling the
racecar.
                                               -1
9997267_1(GHMatters) P98525.AU.3

                  TACTILE BASED PERFORMANCE ENHANCEMENT SYSTEM
                                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
            [0001]              This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/641,119, filed May 1, 2012, and U.S. Application No. 13/586,789, filed August 15, 2012,
the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this
specification. This patent application is a divisional application of Australian patent
application no. <removed-apn> the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Australian application no. <removed-apn> is itself a divisional application of Australian
application no. 2015271982, which is itself a divisional application of Australian patent
application no. 2013256573.                 Most of the disclosure of these applications is also included
herein, however, reference may be made to the specification of any one or more of
application numbers 2013256573, 2015271982, and <removed-apn> as filed or accepted to gain
further understanding of the invention claimed herein.
                                                   BACKGROUND
            [0002]              Racecar drivers and other athletes commonly rely on sensor data to
evaluate and improve their performance.                 Typically, however, the relevant sensor data and
reports are provided to the athlete only after the performance is complete. For example, a
racecar driver may, as part of a training session, complete several laps on a track and then
stop to review a report that is based on collected sensor data.
                                         SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            [0002a]             According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system
for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising: a tactile stimulation device
capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and a controller that controls the tactile
stimulation device to communicate performance-related information to the driver during
movement of a racecar, the controller configured to receive vehicle information, including
vehicle information collected by vehicle sensors of the racecar, and configured to use the
vehicle information to select a tactile message to communicate to the driver via the tactile
                                                          -1
9997062_1(GHMaters) P98525.AU.3

stimulation device, the tactile message including a stimulation pattern that notifies the driver
of an optimum timing for performing a driver action corresponding to controlling the racecar.
            [0002b]             According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
system for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising: a tactile stimulation
device capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and a controller that controls the
tactile stimulation device to communicate performance-related information to the driver
during movement of a racecar, the controller configured to receive vehicle information,
including vehicle information collected by vehicle sensors of the racecar, and configured to
use the vehicle information to select a tactile message to communicate to the driver via the
tactile stimulation device, the tactile message including a stimulation pattern that notifies the
driver of an optimum wheel slip of a wheel of the racecar for performing a driver action
corresponding to controlling the racecar, wherein the optimum wheel slip is relative to a
surface of travel for the racecar.
            [0002c]             According to yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided
a system for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising: a tactile
stimulation device capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and a controller that
controls the tactile stimulation device to communicate performance-related information to the
driver during movement of a racecar, the controller configured to receive vehicle information,
and configured to use the vehicle information to communicate to the driver a tactile message
that notifies the driver of an optimum timing for performing a driver action corresponding to
controlling the racecar.
                                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            [0003]              The features of the inventions disclosed herein are described below with
reference to the drawings of the preferred embodiments.                  The illustrated embodiments are
intended to illustrate, but not to limit the inventions. The drawings contain the following
figures:
            [0004]              Figure 1 illustrates an example embodiment of a tactile apparatus
connected to a vehicle.
                                                          -2
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

            [0005]              Figure 2 illustrates an example diagram showing the present performance
improvement model utilized in motorsports.
            [0006]              Figure 3 illustrates an example embodiment of a controller of a tactile
apparatus.
            [0007]              Figure 4 illustrates an example embodiment of a tactile apparatus as a
tactile vest.
            [0008]              Figure  5 illustrates    an example    diagram showing a performance
improvement model utilizing a tactile apparatus.
            [0009]              Figure 6 depicts one embodiment of a process for providing post-event
feedback to a driver via tactile signals.
            [0010]              Figure 7 depicts one embodiment of a process for providing tactile
messages to a user.
                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
            [0011]              While the present description sets forth specific details of various
embodiments, it will be appreciated that the description is illustrative only and should not be
construed in any way as limiting.                   Additionally, although particular embodiments of the
present inventions may be disclosed or shown in the context of motorsports, such
embodiments can be used as for other sports or vehicles such as downhill skiing, boat racing,
and/or trains, respectively.                  Further, various applications of such embodiments and
modifications thereto, which may occur to those who are skilled in the art, are also
encompassed by the general concepts described herein.
            [0012]              A gap in time between performing a human action and reviewing a
performance report based on that action can impede on the ability of the athlete to identify the
particular actions (control inputs) and events that improve or degrade performance. With the
amount of data available today, the complexity of transmitting critical information in a
readily perceived format is critical.                A human's exteroceptive system includes nerves that
respond to stimuli emanating from outside of the body via the five basic senses: sight,
hearing, taste, smell, and touch. The sense of touch, including body awareness, is comprised
of both tactile and kinesthetic sensory components and a motor subsystem. The tactile sense
                                                           -3
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

arises from activation of the cutaneous sensors.              Tactile systems include sensors located
within the skin that capture sensations such as pressure and vibration, temperature, and pain
at the skin's surface.
            [0013]              A system is disclosed for enabling racecar drivers (and in some
embodiments, other types of athletes and/or drivers) to monitor and improve their
performance through tactile stimulation. In a preferred embodiment, the system includes a
tactile apparatus, such as a tactile vest that is worn by the driver. The vest can include an
array of tactile stimulation devices that can be electrically coupled to a controller.             The
controller monitors various parameters of the vehicle' s operation (e.g., speed,engine RPM,
wheel balance, vehicle location relative to turns), and uses this information to generate tactile
messages that are conveyed to the driver.               The system can have a wired and/or wireless
transceiver to receive information from one or more data sources, such as a CAN bus of the
vehicle, a global positioning system, and/or a computing device that is external to the vehicle.
            [0014]              Depending upon how the system is configured, the system may, via tactile
stimulation signals or messages, convey a variety of different types of information, including
real time information, to the driver. For example, the system may signal to the driver when to
shift or brake, or may notify the driver whether a shifting or braking operation was performed
too early or too late. The system can have a user interface for selecting when and what types
of tactile messages are to be delivered. The system may, for example, be used to provide real
time feedback and guidance to drivers during racing or training. The system can replace or
supplement visual or auditory messages the driver may receive during racing or training.
            [0015]              In some embodiments, the system can prioritize messages for tactile
delivery to the driver based on message type. For example, a cue signal based on a trigger
event conveying to the driver to perform an action can be prioritized over a feedback signal
conveying tactile information regarding driver performance.                  Further, tactile messages
received from external sources can be delayed and prioritized to be delivered to the driver
after the system determines that there are no other tactile messages (e.g., cue signals or
feedback signals) to be delivered. Lower priority messages can be postponed and queued to
be delivered to the driver once higher priority or more time critical messages have been
delivered.
                                                       -4
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

            [0016]              Another embodiment of the system enables yacht crewmembers to monitor
and improve their performance through tactile stimulation. In some embodiments, the system
collects data via sensors of the yacht, and uses this information to generate messages that are
transmitted wirelessly to one or more tactile vests or other tactile devices worn by one or
more members of the yacht' s crew Depending upon how the system is configured, the
system may, via tactile stimulation signals or messages, convey a variety of different types of
information, including real time information, to the crewmember(s). The system' scontroller
monitors various parameters of the yacht's operation or yacht information (e.g., tiller/wheel
position, sail trim, yacht lean, yacht direction, yacht speed), and may also monitor various
sailing conditions or sailing information (e.g., wind direction, wind strength, sea state, tide,
course boundaries, reference points, crewmember location on the yacht).                  Based on this
information, the system may, for example, convey to a crewmember, via a tactile messages,
information or instructions regarding adjustments of control inputs (e.g., tiller/wheel position,
sail trim, yacht lean, crewmember location on the yacht) to be performed.
            [0017]              The system may also use tactile messages to, for example, provide cues
related the order of tasks to be performed, warn of in an impending event, provide
information related to the position of nearby yachts, provide information related to sailing
conditions, and/or provide instructions regarding crewmember positioning.
            [0018]              Other embodiments of the system and associated methods can be used in
other sports to improve performance.               For example, in Freestyle Moto X, the system can
augment a driver' s sense of location to help safelyland during a trick being performed. The
system can communicate to the driver if enough vehicle speed is being attained to perform a
particular trick. Similarly, the system can be used in non-motorized sports such as downhill
skiing.         The system can, for example, provided real time feedback on the effect of a
maneuver on downhill speed.
            [0019]              Embodiments of the system can also be used in non-sport contexts. For
example, in one embodiment, the system can provide tactile messages conveying to a train
engineer if the locomotive is traveling at a safe speed for an approaching corner. The tactile
device can also act as a reminder to sound the horn when the locomotive is approaching the
corner.
                                                        -5
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

Motorsport Racing Applications
            [0020]              Figure 1 illustrates an example embodiment of a system for enabling
racecar drivers to monitor and improve their performance through tactile stimulation.                 The
system with a tactile apparatus 101 can be connected to a CAN bus 102 of a vehicle. In some
embodiments, the system can include a vest 114 that is worn by a driver. The vest 114 can
include an array of tactile stimulation devices 116 that can be electrically coupled to a
controller 110. The controller 110 can be connected to the car' sCAN bus 102 and monitors
various parameters of the vehicle' s operation (e.g., speed, RPMs, wheel baince, location
relative to turns).                The controller 110 may also receive and analyze other sources of
information, such, for example,                   global positioning data, beacon data, predetermined
messages, etc.               The connection to the controller 110 can be wireless through a wireless
transceiver 112. Depending upon how the system is configured, the system may, via tactile
stimulation signals or messages, convey a variety of different types of information, including
real time information, to the driver. For example, the system may signal to the driver when to
shift or brake, or may notify the driver whether a shifting or braking operation was performed
too early or too late. The system may, for example, be used to provide real time feedback and
guidance to drivers during racing or training. The system can replace or supplement visual or
auditory messages the driver may receive during racing or training.
Tactile Senses
            [0021]              In environments such as motorsport racing and other data intensive sports,
human senses such as hearing, vision, and smell can be overpowered and impaired.                        A
racecar driver receives a plethora of visual and auditory signals while driving. For instance,
while driving, the driver visually keeps track of lap times, speed, engine revolutions per
minute, engine settings, wing angle, gear selection, differentials, power steering, and other
operational parameters of the car. Further, the driver is not only surrounded by the noise of
the driver' sown car and other cars, but the driver is also receiving auditory messages from
the pit crew. Research has shown that while the driver may initially be aware of any visual
and auditory cues available, after a period of time, the visual and auditory cues fade into the
                                                          -6
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

background and become no longer consciously cognizable.                     Further, adding visual and
auditory messages has been shown to affect lap times.                  Thus, where visual and auditory
information channels would only compete with data necessary for optimal performance of
maneuvering a racing vehicle, tactile sensations can be valuable in providing an additional
information channel.                A tactile system not only allows for communication of information
through an alternative channel, but also does not interfere with existing visual or auditory
messages. A tactile cue to the driver minimizes distractions to the driver and enhances the
time drivers spend with their eyes and attention focused on the road, instead of the control
interface. Vision and hearing is already occupied by race situations and the basic demands of
a driving a racecar.                Further, vision and hearing lack the sense of "feel" drivers often
reference in fine tuning their responses to car movement. Therefore, drivers will be more
likely to receive and attend to tactile information as compared to additional visual or auditory
information. Since information received tactually should not compete with other visual and
auditory signals for mental resources, its impact on mental workload can be minimal. Such
information has the ability to be easily integrated into a motorsport driver's task workload.
            [0022]              Research has shown the brain can decipher and quickly learn tactile cues.
Because the brain can quickly develop and process patterns such as variations in frequency,
wavelength, and/or intensity, a driver can learn to decode tactile messages. Harnessing this, a
motorsport driver can benefit from a communication language using tactile apparatuses,
devices, system, and methods that can instruct, cue, guide, and/or provide information to the
driver. Numerous benefits that can be achieved in the arena of motorsports as well as other
fields of sports where performance and timing enhanced perception are required. In some
embodiments, one of the benefits can be a speeding up of the feedback loop in real time
improvements in the motorsport driver performance.                 Better and more sophisticated driver
information can help make more accurate estimations of the response of racecars to certain
driver inputs. In addition to better driver information, the volume of data a driver receives
can be increased because tactile messages are not or minimally competing for brain
bandwidth with any existing visual and auditory cues. Performance data becomes a sense of
feel in real time rather than a post event analytical tool, eliminating or reducing a driver' s
need to use memory or visualization in interpreting the data.
                                                         -7
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

Current Motorsport Learning Techniques
            [0023]              As with other sports, motorsports racing currently utilizes trial-and-error
learning techniques. A driver will repeat a race course many times, analyzing any mistakes
made after the fact.                 Over time, incremental improvements are made until the correct
maneuvers become innate. If the driver is talented, the after the fact learning technique may
be effective. However, even for a talented driver, this process can often be slow and limited.
Only incremental improvement steps are made with each trial and error. This is a slow and
inaccurate learning process. Memory is an unreliable source of information and imagining
complex data on a screen as real life movement is difficult to comprehend. Further, a driver
may simply not be aware of the kinds of inefficient maneuvers being made. This complex
learning process is shown in Figure 2.
            [0024]              Figure 2 illustrates the process commonly used in motorsports for drivers
to improve their performance.                 At block 202, the driver is driving a racecar on a track. At
block 204, driver uses physical body movements or control inputs to maneuver and control
the car around the track, particularly during cornering and momentum changes of the racecar
such as acceleration and braking. At block 206, car sensors register movements of the car as
induced by driver control inputs. At block 208, the sensor signals are sent to a plurality of
electronic control units (ECU) that control various functions of the car such as traction
control. The main ECU processor is the engine control unit or engine control module (ECM)
that controls the engine via various sensors accounting for driver control inputs such as
depression of the brake or gas pedal. The data from the sensors, ECUs, and/or ECM can be
sent around the car' s central system called aCAN bus at block 210 before, simultaneously, or
after the signals are sent to the ECUs at block 208. The CAN bus is a vehicle communication
protocol without a host computer. Connected to the CAN bus is a data logger that records,
block 212, the information based on the car' s movement received through the car sensors and
sent through the CAN bus.                   The car' smovement information can include wheel speed as
determined by tire rotation, wheel spin relative to other wheels, wheel slip, revolution per
minute of the engine, braking, acceleration, vehicle weight distribution, etc.
                                                            -8
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

            [0025]              Since the origins of data logging in 1980s, the rate of logging and the
number of channels logged have substantially risen. The rise in data logging can create an
overwhelming amount of information for a driver to digest and visualize.                   What has not
changed is the way the data is presented to the driver for analysis and self-correction.              At
block 214, the driver completes the practice run and stops the car. At block 216, the data is
downloaded to a computer and presented to the driver in various visual formats such as track
recorded video, charts, and/or tables. At block 218 and 220, the driver engages his memory
to imagine and visualize the events during the practice run. The driver is thus essentially
required to relive the practice run entirely post event.               The driver tries to remember the
experience while at the same time imagining the specific car movements in question. The
teams and its drivers set goals, entry and exit speeds, entry and exit lines, entry and exit
decelerations and accelerations, action points, corner speeds, effects of sectors (time gain or
loss from reference points), grip use, power use, etc. The process requires piecing together
many variables in a post event analysis, which can be inaccurate and slow with performance
improvements made in small, incremental steps.                   Further, areas for improvement may be
entirely missed as the driver fails to recall specific events or does not connect his actions with
what is reported during data analysis through the track recorded video, charts, and/or tables.
            [0026]              After deciding on potential areas of improvement based on the analysis,
block 222, such as altering physical body movements and/or adjusting the car, the driver
enters the car again and repeats the practice run, block 224. During the resumed practice run,
block 226, the driver attempts to engage the memory of data and analysis of blocks 218 to
222 to change driving tactics and/or body movements to alter the control inputs into the car,
block 228. The sensors register the new car movements of the racecar, block 230, and the
data is logged by the data logger with the same procedure of recording the car movements at
blocks 232 to 236 as described for blocks 208 to 212. The driver then repeats the process
starting at block 214 by stopping the racecar and repeating the analysis of blocks 216 to 222.
            [0027]              The process flow of Figure 2 can take more than 20 minutes. This process
is slow. Further, the improvement in performance is only incremental and not necessarily
optimized as it relies on many imperfect links such as the driver' s memory. An improvement
to this process can be to provide real time feedback of the same information as the driver
                                                          -9
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

analyzes at blocks 216 to 222. Real time feedback can minimize or eliminate the need for
post event analysis.
            [0028]              Motorsports is a multi-billion dollar industry with teams spending alone
being many billions of dollars. A gain of a fraction of a second in improved performance
through new technology can translate into millions of dollars in revenue for a team. Some
motorsport regulations do not allow for certain manipulations of car controls through the use
of sensors, such as the use of antilock braking system (ABS) or manipulating ECUs in other
ways to gain a competitive edge. Motorsport regulations may allow teams to manipulate the
ECUs in only limited ways such as providing fuel information or traction control. However,
motorsport regulations typically do not restrict the teams from gathering, logging, and
analyzing all the information available with existing car sensors.                    Further, motorsport
regulations typically do not restrict the type of or amount of sensors available on a car. Thus,
teams can add more sensors to the car if more information about performance is desired.
            [0029]              The regulations allow      for the driver to receive available     sensor
information, including receiving the information in real time. In fact, many types of real time
information are already relayed to the driver such as speed, sector times, RPM, flag signals,
gear selection, and other messages such as auditory messages from the pit crew. Teams have
researched how to increase the types of real time information delivered to the driver. For
instance, teams have attempted to deliver to the driver optimum shift points by either visual
cues, such as green, yellow, red flashes, or similarly indicative auditory cues. This research
has shown that not only are the visual and auditory cues competing with other signals for the
driver' s mental bandwidth, the signals can be filtered out by the driver during periods
requiring hand eye coordination. Yet, the extra information to optimize performance can be
vitally important to improve lap times, reduce testing costs, extend tire wear, and enhance pit
stop procedures.                Teams that can effectively deliver the needed performance information to
all team members, including the driver, can increase performance leading to increased team
revenues while reducing team long term costs. Delivering real time information through
tactile cues can reduce or eliminate the need for a user of a tactile apparatus to view or listen
to the performance information in a post event analysis.
                                                          -10
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

Delivering Real Time Information
            [0030]              Figure 1 illustrates an embodiment of a tactile apparatus 101, in which a
driver-worn vest 114 is linked to a car' spreexisting CAN bus 102 via a controller 110. The
CAN bus 102 is the car' s central information system that links the car' s electronic
components such as an ECM (Engine Control Module) 104, ECUs (Electronic Control Units)
 105, sensors 106, and a data logger 108. The ECM 104 can control engine functions such as
fuel injection and rev control limits. The car sensors 106 can detect car movements such as
wheel spin while the ECUs 105 can control, within certain limits, the wheel spin based on
signals from the sensors 106 to provide, for example, traction control.                    While a car may
already have many sensors 106, teams can add additional car sensors 106 as needed
depending on data that is desired to be collected. For example, a team may add a sensor 106
to measure brake line pressure if a car does not already have a sensor 106 monitoring this
variable. The data logger 108 can log data from the ECM 104, ECUs 105, and/or sensors 106
that is transmitted through the CAN bus 102.
            [0031]              As discussed for Figure 2, the driver can later analyze his or her
performance by extracting the information from the data logger 108 and performing the steps
described for blocks 216 to 222.                  To avoid or mitigate the need to rely on the post event
analysis discussed for blocks 216 to 222, the performance information (and/or associated
cues, feedback messages, etc.) can be communicated to the driver in real time using a tactile
apparatus 101.               In an embodiment, the performance information is communicated using a
tactile apparatus 101 such as a tactile vest 114. A tactile vest 114 can have a plurality of
activators 116 (e.g., tactile devices) that are arranged and controlled such that different types
of messages can be conveyed to the driver through different stimulation sequences and
patterns.
            [0032]              The controller 110 can receive sensor signals from the CAN bus 102
through a wired transceiver 111 and/or a wireless transceiver 112 using any appropriate
signal interface(s) and protocol(s).               Preferably, the controller acts as a passive node on the
CAN bus, meaning that it monitors signals on the CAN bus but does take any action that
directly affects the vehicle' s operation.                  The controller 110 can determine the tactile
sequences to be delivered to the driver based on the data received from the CAN bus and
                                                           -11
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

based on various programmatic criteria. In some cases, the controller 110 may also use other
sources of information (other than the CAN bus) to select tactile stimulation to apply. For
example, the controller 110 may include a GPS device that uses both GPS signals and local
beacons to accurately determine the car' s real time location; in such embodiments, the
controller 110 may use this additional source of information to, for example, select shifting
related tactile signals to apply to the driver.
            [0033]              In embodiments in which a wireless transceiver 112 is provided, the
controller 110 can also receive a tactile message to be communicated to the driver through
the wireless transceiver 112.                  For example, a team member may send a known or
predetermined tactile message to the driver instead of communicating through a radio. The
wireless transceiver 112 can be part of the controller 110 or any other part of the system
depicted in Figure 1 such as being directly connected to the CAN bus 102. In some cases, the
wireless transceiver 112 may be capable of communicating with a device that is external to
the vehicle; where this is the case, another team member or another controller outside the
system depicted in Figure 1 can determine and send a tactile message to the driver through
the wireless transceiver 112.
            [0034]              The tactile vest 114 can communicate information to the driver via the
tactile sense comprising a plurality of activators 116 for generating and transmitting a tactile
sequence or message.                  The activators 116 can provide any suitable output that may be
perceived by the exteroceptive sense, including the tactile sense such as awareness of
stimulation to the outer surface of the body from any external source. The tactile sense of the
driver thus includes, but is not limited to mechanoreceptors,                      nocioreceptors,  and
thermoreceptors.                The tactile sequences discussed herein may be translated by the driver's
ability to sense vibration, touch, stress, pressure, temperature, pain, etc. The activators 116
can include tactors,                 transducers,  electromechanical  vibrating motors, piezo-buzzers,
vibrotactile activators, pressure activators, and/or other tactile devices. Although a vest 114
is shown, other embodiments can communicate the tactile message using other tactile
apparatuses that can incorporate haptic activators 116 such as a belt, a headband, an arm or
wristband, a forearm band, a thigh band, and/or other parts of the driver' s body as loig as the
driver can discern the tactile messages. In yet other embodiments, the haptic activators 116
                                                          -12
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

can be incorporated into the racecar itself such as attaching haptic activators to the steering
wheel, steering wheel paddles, brake pedal, accelerator pedal, driver seat, and/or other racecar
parts such that the driver is able to discern the tactile message.
            [0035]              In one embodiment, to deliver a tactile message, the haptic activators 116
may vibrate at a varying frequency, wavelength, and/or intensity in a particular location on
the driver' s body                 The activators 116 or can be lined vertically or horizontally to, for
instance, convey a gradient. For example, the brake line pressure can be conveyed to the
driver depending on how far up the driver' s tors> the activators 116 are activated. For low
brake line pressure, the activators 116 can vibrate near the abdomen. For high or increasing
brake line pressure, the activators 116 closer to the driver' s chest can be activated mimicking
a gradient. As the brake line pressure decreases, the activators 116 near the driver' s chest can
be deactivated. In other embodiments, a tactile message can move vertically downwards a
driver's body such as a first activator being activated near the chest and as the tactile message
changes or varies, a subsequent activator closer to the abdomen is activated.
            [0036]              In one embodiment, the activation of the haptic activators 116 is a linear
level indicator or gradient, where the activators 116 near the abdomen remain activated as the
activators 116 near the chest are subsequently activated. In other embodiments, the activators
 116 near the abdomen are sequentially deactivated as the activators 116 near the chest are
activated. In yet other embodiments, the combination of linear level indication or gradient
and sequential deactivation as well is used to convey different types of tactile messages. In
further embodiments, the gradient and/or sequential deactivation is conveyed horizontally
across the driver' s body such across tle abdomen and/or across the chest from left to right
and/or right to left. In yet further embodiments, the tactile message is communicated using a
diagonal tactile message cues such as moving from the driver' s left chest area to the right
abdomen area, right chest area to the left abdomen area, left abdomen area to the right chest
area, and/or right abdomen area to the left chest area. In some embodiments, other tactile
pattern variations can include activating a specific set of activators 116 such as two, three,
four, five, etc. activators 116 simultaneously or sequentially in a specific pattern such as a
triangle, square, and/or polygon.                The various types of activators and patterns discussed
herein can also be applied to the driver' s back. In certain embodiments, any combination of
                                                        -13
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

patterns discussed herein as well as other variations can be utilized to deliver a tactile
message.
            [0037]              Figure 3 is a block diagram showing elements of an exemplary
implementation of a tactile apparatus 101 with a controller 110. The controller 110 can be in
the form of any suitable computing device or board, and is typically a portable device that
attaches to the vest 114. In the illustrated embodiment, the controller 110 has a processor
302 and a computer readable memory 310 that stores program code 306. The program code
306 implements the algorithms and program logic for performing the various functions
described herein, including the analysis of vehicle-related information and the generation of
tactile messages to be applied via the vest.                The controller 110 may be controlled by a
dedicated battery or by the vehicle' s battery. The controller 110 can be integrated inside the
vest 114, or can be outside of and connected to the tactile vest 114. The processor 302 can
send information to and receive information from the tactile vest 114. The processor 302 can
be connected to a vehicle 301 to receive signals from an ECM 104, ECUs 105, and/or sensors
 106 within the vehicle 301.              In certain embodiments, the processor 302 can receive signals
from the vehicle 301, but cannot send signals to the vehicle 301 or otherwise directly control
the vehicle. The processor 302 is preferably a microprocessor or microcontroller, but may
alternatively be, for example, an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), FPGA, or
other device that includes application-specific circuitry. Although a single processor 302 is
shown, the controller 110 may include multiple distinct processors in some embodiments.
            [0038]              In one embodiment, the processor 302 can be connected to a GPS (global
positioning system) receiver 308 to receive GPS information as described herein.                   The
processor 302 can send information to and receive information from the GPS receiver 308.
The processor 302 can be connected to a user input device 310 to receive user input as
described herein. The processor 302 can send information to and receive information from
the user input device 310. The user input device can include, for example, a keypad and a
display, or a touchscreen, for enabling the driver or driver team to view and adjust various
configuration settings. The controller 110 could additionally or alternatively support voice
recognition, gesture recognition, and/or other types of user input. In embodiments where the
user input device 310 includes a software-based user interface, the user interface may display
                                                        -14
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

status information of the tactile apparatus 101 based on the information sent to the user
interface by the processer 302.
            [0039]              As illustrated, the processor 302 may be connected to a wireless
transceiver 112.                The wireless transceiver 112, if present, enables the processor 302 to
communicate wirelessly with the vehicle 301, the tactile vest 114, and/or a pit crew
computing device that is external to the vehicle. The wireless transceiver 112 can also enable
the processor 302 to wirelessly communicate with the GPS receiver 308 and/or the user input
device 310.                Although a single wireless transceiver 112 is shown, separate wireless
transceivers may be provided for communication with different systems or entities.                     The
wireless communications, if any, with the vehicle 301, vest 114, and/or different systems or
entities may either replace or supplement wired communications. In certain embodiments, the
GPS receiver 308, the user input device 310, and/or wireless transceiver 112 may be omitted
as illustrated by the dashed arrows of Figure 3.
            [0040]              Figure 4 illustrates one embodiment of a tactile vest 114. The tactile vest
 114 can have haptic activators 116 as illustrated in Figure 1. While the activators 116 in
Figure 4 are shown to be on one side of the tactile vest 114 for illustration purposes, the
activators 116 can be on both sides of the vest and can be located on one or both sides the
backside of the tactile vest 114. In one embodiment, the tactile vest 114 can have a slip layer
404 that covers the activators 116 in order to prevent snagging of the activators 116 against
other parts of the tactile vest 114, other garments of a driver, and/or bare skin of the driver.
The slip layer 404 can be fire retardant.                 The activators 116 can be connected to a haptic
activator driver circuit 402.                The controller 110 as described herein can have and/or be
connected to the haptic activator driver circuit 402. The driver circuit 402 can have batteries
to power the activators 116.                   In some embodiments, the driver circuit 402 can have a
connection to an external power source to power the activators 116.
            [0041]              The tactile vest 114 can have a built-in cooling system.     The cooling
system can have cooling tubes 406.                     In one embodiment, the cooling system is a self
contained cooling system that may utilize dry ice to help keep a driver cool in a racecar
cockpit, which can be a hot environment as engine heat dissipates. While the cooling tubes
406 in Figure 4 are shown to be on one side of the tactile vest 114 for illustration purposes,
                                                           -15
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

the cooling tubes 406 can be on both sides of the tactile vest 114 and can also be located on
the backside of the vest 114. In one embodiment, the tactile vest 114 is a S.A.F.E. Coolshirt
vest with activators 116 integrated into the S.A.F.E. Coolshirt vest.
            [0042]              In an embodiment, the controller 110 can be configured to receive input
information, which can include vehicle information, execution information, auxiliary
information, and/or user information. The classification of the input information does not
limit the functionality of the described embodiments of the inventions herein.                Rather the
classification of the input information is for discussion purposes. The vehicle information,
also referred to as signal sensor data or vehicle sensor information, can be based on signals
from car sensors. The execution information can be based on signals from car sensors and/or
signals from auxiliary sensors such as a global positioning system. The auxiliary information
can be based on signals from auxiliary sensors such as pit crew information.                    Vehicle
information can, for example, overlap with auxiliary information because, for instance, wheel
speed as determined by tire rotation may match the speed of the vehicle as determined by
movement of the vehicle itself. However, the wheel speed can be different from the vehicle
speed as determined by a global positioning system depending on the wheel slip relative to
the surface of travel. Execution information can be the same as auxiliary information such as
for acceleration.                 Acceleration can be execution information as determined by the
acceleration a driver achieves with reference to a maximum acceleration that could have been
achieved based on optimum balance of a vehicle weight on all four tires. Acceleration can
also be auxiliary information based on actual vehicle acceleration relative to the surface of
travel as determined by a global positioning system.
            [0043]              The vehicle information can include characteristics of vehicle operation
such as power use, fuel consumption, wheel speed as determined by tire rotation, wheel spin
relative to other wheels, wheel slip, revolutions per minute of the engine, gear selection,
accelerator pedal position, brake pedal position, brake pad position, brake line pressure,
steering angle, transitional input ramps, vehicle weight distribution, and vehicle momentum,
which can be used by the controller to generate tactile messages as described herein. The
execution information can include time gain or loss from reference laps, time gain or loss
from reference points, timing of gear selection, braking rate, acceleration, steering angle,
                                                        -16
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

entry and exit speeds, entry and exit lines, entry and exit decelerations and accelerations, and
grip use, which can be used by the controller to generate a tactile message as described
herein. The auxiliary information can include input from a global positioning system, vehicle
location, vehicle speed, tire wear, acceleration, deceleration, radius for approaching corner,
speed for approaching corner, pit crew information, and reference points including for
braking, steering angle, acceleration, and approaching corners, which can be used by the
controller to generate a tactile message as described herein.              Based on the received input
information, the controller 110 can generate a tactile message in real time or near real time, at
a predetermined time, and/or at particular time intervals, which may be identical or different.
In one embodiment, user(s) can query an input device for real time or near real time
information.
            [0044]              The user information can include information from a driver wearing a
tactile apparatus 101 and/or at least one other user able to communicate with the tactile
apparatus 101. In an embodiment, either a driver wearing a tactile apparatus 101 or another
user not wearing the tactile apparatus 101 can configure the tactile apparatus 101 with, for
example, an input device to generate or communicate a certain tactile message, or choose
from a list of tactile messages or profiles to determine the type of tactile messages to be
communicated. The another user not wearing the tactile apparatus 101 can choose from a list
of available tactile messages, using, for example, a pit crew computing device, to
communicate a message to a driver to avoid, for instance, auditory communication that can
lead to slower lap times.                In embodiments in which the controller 110 includes a GPS
receiver 308, the controller 110 can take into consideration vehicle' s current and last location
in determining whether and when to generate particular tactile signals. In some cases, the
GPS receiver 308 (or a separate wireless transceiver 112 provided on the controller 110) may
be configured to receive location-based signals transmitted by fixed beacons positioned along
the racetrack. These signals may enable the controller 110 to more accurately determine the
vehicle' s position than standard GPS signals.
            [0045]              In an embodiment, choosing from a list of profiles can allow a driver to
customize the types tactile messages generated. The profiles can include options to receive
only specific tactile messages, for example, such as receiving tactile messages regarding
                                                       -17
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

optimum gearshift points and optimum corner entry speeds, but not receiving tactile
messages regarding reference points for braking, acceleration, and steering angle.                  Other
profiles can include options to receive tactile messages that are more relevant depending on
the driving conditions such a wet or dry conditions and/or practice run versus an actual race.
In one embodiment, the driver can change profiles in real time or near real time, at a
predetermined time, or at particular time intervals, which may be identical or different.
Profiles can help improve performance by, for instance, providing an augmented feel of the
car movements during wet conditions when actual feedback of the car' s movements is
subdued or reduced due to slippery conditions. A wet condition profile can help a driver
perform or repeat body controls more accurately and consistently as if driving during dry
conditions. In some embodiments, the controller can also be placed into a "learn" mode in
which it observes the driver' s performance over several laps and then determines (or
recommends) the types of cues and other signals to be generated.
            [0046]              In one embodiment, the controller 110 can adaptively fine tune the tactile
messages based on an automated assessment of the driver' s strength and/or weaknesses. For
example, if the controller detects that the driver is consistently late at performing a particular
action (e.g., braking or shifting), the controller may start generating associated tactile cues for
performing this action, or may adjust the timing and/or intensity of such cues.                 Adaptive
learning can emphasize certain aspects of training or mitigate a driver' s weaknessesduring a
race. The profiles discussed herein can also include profiles ranging from novice to expert
drivers, such as novice, intermediate, advanced, or expert. In one embodiment, a novice
profile can include most if not all tactile messages described herein to be communicated to a
driver. An expert profile can include counterintuitive tactile messages or tactile messages
that help to counteract the particular weaknesses of a driver.                       An example of a
counterintuitive tactile message can be approaching a corner on the racetrack at a slower
speed in order to be able to accelerate faster into the following straightaway due to, for
instance, more equal weight distribution of a vehicle on all four tires.
                                                        -18
9997062_1(GHMaters) P98525.AU.3

Improving performance
            [0047]              The communication of tactile messages as described herein allows for a
driver to learn through conditioning rather than negative reinforcement. In an embodiment
illustrated in Figure 5, a learning cycle is quicker with, for example, a cycle time of 20
milliseconds when compared to the 10 to 20 minute learning cycle time discussed for Figure
2. At block 502 of Figure 5, the driver is driving a racecar on a track. At block 504, the
driver uses physical body movements or control inputs to maneuver and control the car
around the track, particularly during cornering and momentum changes of the racecar such as
acceleration and braking.                At block 506, the sensors register the movement of the car as
induced by the body controls.                  At block 508, the sensor signals are sent to the electronic
control units (ECU) or engine control module (ECM) to control various functions of the car.
The sensor, ECU, and/or ECM data is sent on the CAN bus at block 510. At block 512, the
controller uses the data being sent on the CAN bus to determine and communicate a tactile
message to the driver at block 514. The driver receives the tactile message at block 516 and
may in real time change the body control input at block 518 to improve performance. The
driver can then immediately repeat the learning cycle starting at block 502 without stopping
the racecar and performing the analysis and memory recollection steps described for the
blocks 214-226 of Figure 2.
            [0048]              By sending real time data, a driver can learn and self-correct more
accurately and quickly. The driver can immediately respond to a tactile message and quickly
learn the effects of changing particular body movements or control inputs on the response of
the racecar. The human performance factor of motorsports is still preserved while providing
a hypersensitive "feel" of the racecar. As a driver learns and improves over time, the driver
may need tactile cues on a less frequent basis.
            [0049]              Figure 6 illustrates a process that may be implemented by the controller
110 to generate tactile feedback signals to notify the driver when certain actions were
performed too early or too late. Like the other processes described herein, this process may,
for example, be implemented in software or firmware executed by the controller' s processor
302. At block 602, the controller 110 detects a driver-initiated event, such as a shifting event,
braking event, or acceleration event. At block 604, the controller 110 compares the timing of
                                                           -19
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

this event to the "optimum" timing calculated by the controller 110. This optimum timing
may be calculated by the controller 110 prior to the event (in which case it may optionally be
the basis for a tactile cue signal applied to the driver), or during or after the event. As shown
in parenthesis at block 604 and subsequent blocks, the controller may alternatively compare
the vehicle' s actual location to the calculated opimum location.
            [0050]              As discussed for blocks 606 and 608, if the event was late by more than a
selected threshold time (or distance), the controller 110 generates and outputs a "late" tactile
stimulation pattern to notify the driver that the action was performed too late. As discussed
for blocks 610 and 612, if the event was early by more than a selected threshold time (or
distance), the controller 110 generates and outputs an "early" tactile stimulation pattern to
notify the driver that the action was performed too early. The controller 110 may vary the
magnitudes (or other parameters) of the "early" and "late" signals to convey to the driver the
degree to which the action was early or late. As one example, the controller 110 could output
a single tactile pulse to represent "early," and two successive tactile pulses to represent "late,"
with the magnitudes of the pulses being directly proportional to the extent to which the event
was early or late. Although not shown in the drawing, the controller 110 could also output a
positive feedback signal (e.g., three successive tactile pulses) when the event is performed at
the right time. The tactile feedback signals generated through the process of Figure 6 are
typically applied to the driver (e.g., via the vest 114) substantially immediately (e.g., within
about 1 second, and more typically within a half second) of the associated driver action.
            [0051]              The threshold or thresholds used for blocks 606 and 610 of Figure 6 may
be programmable by the driver or driver' s team viaa user interface of the controller 110. The
controller' s user interface may also enable the drier or driver team to enable and disable
various types of feedback signals.
            [0052]              Figure 7 illustrates a process that may be implemented by the controller
 110 to generate tactile signals or messages based on occurrences of certain events. Like other
processes, this process may, for example, be implemented in software or firmware executed
by the controller' s processor 302. At block 702, data is collected as described herein. For
example, the data can be car sensor signal data, or equivalently vehicle sensor information,
collected through the CAN bus. The data can include GPS and/or beacon data. The data can
                                                           -20
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

also include external sources data, such as, for example, a message from another team
member.             At block 704, the controller 110 analyzes the collected data to determine
appropriate action at decision points 708, 712, and/or 716. At block 706, the controller 110
logs data collected and detected from the sensor signals corresponding to events associated
with vehicle information, execution information, and/or auxiliary information as described
herein, such as, for example, braking, acceleration, shifting, wheel spin, etc.
            [0053]              At decision point 708, the controller 110 determines whether any cue
trigger conditions are met. Cue trigger events can include information relating to real time
performance, such as, for example, timing of braking, accelerating, shifting, and cornering,
wheel slip, speed, wheel angle, and/or other cue events as described herein.
            [0054]              When a cue trigger condition is met, the controller 110, at block 710, can
generate a signal for the tactile apparatus 101 to output as a tactile cue signal corresponding
to the cue trigger event.                The cue trigger event can be logged in the memory 304 of the
controller 110. The cue trigger conditions can be determined based on current sensor signal
data, including what the driver is doing in real time, and logged events, at block 706. For
example, when the controller 110, based on current sensor signal data, determines that the
driver should be braking, but the driver has already braked based on logged event data, the
controller 110 can proceed to decision point 712 and determine whether to generate a post
event feedback signal as described herein such as, for example, to let the driver know that the
braking was performed too early. As another example, when the controller 110, based on
current sensor signal data, determines that the driver should be increasing (or decreasing)
acceleration, the controller 110 can determine whether to increase (or decrease) the output of
the acceleration tactile cue signal based on the previously generated and logged intensity of
acceleration tactile cue signal at block 710. Described differently, as the controller 110
generates and logs an acceleration tactile cue signal, the controller 110 then determines at
decision point 708 whether to increase (or decrease) the intensity of the acceleration tactile
cue signal based on current sensor data and the logged intensity of the previous or still
continuous acceleration tactile cue.
            [0055]              After block 710, or when a cue trigger condition is not met at decision
point 708, the controller 110 can determine whether a post-event feedback condition is met at
                                                         -21
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

decision point 712.                 Post-event feedback conditions can include post-event feedback as
discussed herein and for Figure 6.                  When a post-event feedback condition is met, the
controller 110, at block 714, can generate a signal for the tactile apparatus 101 to output as a
tactile feedback signal corresponding to the post-event feedback. The feedback event can be
logged in the memory 304 of the controller 110.                 The controller 110 can use logged post
event feedback and current sensor single data to determine, for example, whether generate a
tactile post-event feedback signal if an event is continually occurring. When the controller
 110 determines that it has already generated post-event feedback based on current sensor
data, the controller 110 can instead generate a tactile cue signal to change driver behavior.
Accordingly, the controller can use current sensor signal data, logged tactile cue signal events
at block 710, and/or logged post-event feedback at block 714 to determine what type of
tactile message to deliver. For example, based on a logged tactile cue signal event at block
710, the controller 110 can switch the tactile message to be a post-event feedback signal after
determination that the tactile cue signal has already been generated.
            [0056]              After block 714, or when a post-event feedback condition is not met at
decision point 712, the controller 110 can determine if a message from an external source has
been received at decision point 716. Messages can include a tactile message sent by another
member of the racing team and as described herein. When a message from an external source
has been received, the controller 110, at block 718, can generate a signal for the tactile
apparatus to output a tactile message signal corresponding to the external message.                The
external message event can be logged in the memory 304 of the controller 110.                      The
controller 110 can use logged external message events to determine when a repeated external
message is being received within a predetermined timeframe and suppress the repeated
external message to minimize distractions to the driver or prioritize the repeated tactile
messages to be later generated again. After block 718, or when an external message has not
been received as determined at decision point 712, the process is repeated indefinitely.
            [0057]              The process steps of Figure 7 do not have to be performed sequentially.
The process steps can be carried out in parallel with other steps. The process steps can be
carried out by multiple processors in parallel.                For example, the controller 110 can be
continuously collecting data at block 702 while performing any of the process steps at blocks
                                                         -22
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

704 to 718 such as, for example, while generating any tactile messages at blocks 710, 714,
and/or 718. Similarly, the controller 110 can be continuously analyzing collected data while
performing any of the process steps at blocks 702 and 706 to 718. The controller 110 can be
continuously logging detected events at block 706 while performing any of the process steps
at blocks 702 to 704 and 708 to 718.
            [0058]              Accordingly, the controller 110 can make determinations at decision
points 708, 712, and 716 at any step in the process described in Figure 7. The controller 110
can prioritize some tactile messages over others to be generated and delivered to the driver at
blocks 710, 714, and 718 based on message type. For example, a tactile cue condition for
braking, acceleration, shifting, wheel spin, etc. may be more time critical to the driver than a
post-event feedback condition regarding the performance of the tactile cue conditions
braking, acceleration, shifting, wheel spin, etc. Thus, the controller 110 can prioritize cue
trigger messaging to take place before any post-event feedback messaging when both types of
tactile messages are present. (Lower-priority messages that are postponed in this manner can
be queued or buffered by the controller, and can be outputted to the driver once no higher
priority messages are pending.) Similarly, an external message may be less time critical to the
driver than a tactile cue condition and/or post-event feedback condition. The controller 110
can prioritize an external message to be delivered after generating and outputting any tactile
cue signals and/or post-event feedback signals.                Some postponed messages may become
unimportant or irrelevant as a result of the delay, in which case they may be deleted from the
queue without being outputted to the driver. In some embodiments, the controller may be
capable of outputting two or more concurrent or overlapping tactile messages to the driver, in
which case message postponement may be unnecessary. Thus, the controller can use the log
of events corresponding to driver action and the log of tactile signal events to determine what
type of tactile message to deliver and the priority of the tactile message.
            [0059]              The tactile messages can be prioritized differently. For example, the
driver may desire to the first try a racecar maneuver and then receive a tactile post-event
feedback message at block 714 based on the performance. The controller 110 can prioritize
post-event feedback messages at block 714 over tactile cue messages at block 710 and/or
external messages at block 718. The controller 110 can use the logged event data for logged
                                                        -23
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

cue signal, post-event feedback signals, and/or external message signals to determine when to
deliver the next tactile message. For example, after determining based on logged event data
that a post-event feedback message has been generated at block 714, the controller can
generate an external message tactile signal at block 718.                The controller 110 can suppress
tactile cue messages at 710 altogether when the driver desires to receive only post-event
feedback at block 714 when trying a racecar maneuver. Accordingly, some process steps
described in Figure 7 can be omitted. For example, the driver may desire not to receive any
external messages at block 716, and the controller 110 can prevent the output of any external
messages at block 718.
            [0060]              The following are examples of the types of information that can be
conveyed to the driver in some embodiments of the system, and of the associated
performance improvements that can be achieved. As will be apparent, only a subset of these
features may be implemented in some embodiments, and numerous additional types of
information can be conveyed beyond those described below.
Wheel Slip/Grip and Related Information Messaging
            [0061]              The vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can include the
measurement of the relationship between the front and rear wheel speeds, which the
controller 110 can use to generate a tactile message. The tactile message can create a sense
of feel for the relative wheel speeds based on a driver' s control input when attemptingto
maximize acceleration of a car through optimum wheel slip. Control inputs of the driver can
include adjusting the relationship between clutch and accelerator positions manually with a
real time augmented sense of the effect on the wheel speeds. For example, drivers may feel a
gradient cue with varying intensity on their abdomen and/or chest relating to the front wheel
speeds. In addition, the drivers may feel a vertical gradient with varying intensity on their
back relating to the back wheel speeds. Based on a tactile comparison of the two or more
vertical gradient cues relating to the front and back wheel speeds, drivers can optimize wheel
slip based on the relative front and back wheel speeds for better acceleration.
            [0062]              Drivers can receive a gradient cue with varying intensity on their right and
left torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) with, for example, the right relating to the front
                                                          -24
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

wheel speeds and the left relating to the rear wheel speeds. Based on a tactile comparison of
the two or more gradient cues with varying intensity relating to the front and back wheel
speeds, drivers can optimize wheel slip based on the relative front and back wheel speeds for
better acceleration. In other embodiments, a tactile message can be a square pattern, with the
four corners of the square relating to a particular wheel speed that is communicated through
varying intensity or frequency of the vibration.
            [0063]              In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message until the
relative speed between the front and back wheels is such that wheel slip is optimum or
alternatively, not optimum. A tactile message can, for example, consist of a particular one or
a combination (such as a square pattern) of activators 116 vibrating when optimum wheel slip
is present or not present. Thus, drivers can be notified when maximum acceleration can be
achieved or not achieved. Not receiving a tactile message until the point in time of maximum
acceleration (or lack thereof) can increase the ability to communicate other tactile messages
that may be more relevant during certain driving situations.
            [0064]              The vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can include
wheel slip relative to the surface of travel. A car can have an optimum wheel slip point
during braking and/or deceleration such that the wheels rotating slower than the surface they
are travelling over maximizes the deceleration of the car.                   Similarly, a car can have an
optimum wheel slip point during acceleration such that the wheels rotating faster than the
surface they are traveling over maximize the acceleration of the car. Further, a car can have
an optimum wheel slip or grip point in cornering situations such that wheels slip slightly at
the corner to maximize grip and cornering ability. A tactile message can communicate to the
driver an optimum wheel slip or grip being achieved in real time and the driver can
immediately adjust the car' s controls accordingly. For example, drivers can receive a
gradient cue with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to
the wheel slip relative to the surface of travel. The wheel slip for each individual wheel can
be communicated through a tactile message to different parts of the torso as described for
front and back wheel speeds, such as front, back, left, and/or right parts of the torso relating
to a slip of a particular wheel of a vehicle. The gradient level and/or intensity of the tactile
message can increase as a particular wheel slips more relative to the surface of travel.
                                                         -25
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

            [0065]              Based on a tactile cue indicating the wheel slip, drivers can adjust control
inputs to optimize the wheel slip for more grip of the tire during deceleration, acceleration,
and/or cornering. In other embodiments, a tactile message can be a square pattern, with the
four corners of the square relating to a particular wheel slip that is communicated through
varying intensity or frequency of the vibration.
            [0066]              In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message until the
relative speed between the front and back wheels is such that wheel slip is optimum or
alternatively, not optimum. A tactile message can, for example, consist of a particular one or
a particular combination (such as a square pattern with corners relating to particular tires) of
activators 116 vibrating when optimum wheel slip is present or is not present. Thus, drivers
can be notified when maximum deceleration, acceleration, and/or cornering can be achieved
or not achieved.                 Not receiving a tactile message until the point in time of maximum
deceleration, acceleration, and/or cornering (or lack thereof) can increase the ability to
communicate other tactile messages that may be more relevant during certain driving
situations.
            [0067]              The vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can include brake
line pressure to further maximize deceleration through the achievement of optimum wheel
slip. Brake line pressure achieved through the effort applied to the brake pedal can be the
primary means of decelerating a vehicle. An optimum brake line pressure can be at a point
right up to which a wheel lock up would be likely. Brake line pressure achieving the point
right before wheel lock up can help optimize wheel slip during deceleration as described
herein. A tactile message can communicate to the driver the optimum possible brake line
pressure and real time feedback about how quickly it is achieved. Furthermore, the brake line
pressure can waver under braking when, for instance, "heel to toe" braking can be required to
match engine RPM while downshifting gears as described herein. The changing brake line
pressure can be communicated to the driver in real time with, for example, a gradient cue
with varying intensity on a driver' s torso abdomenq chest, and/or back). The changing brake
line pressure can replace or supplement the wheel slip tactile messages for each individual
wheel described herein.
                                                          -26
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

            [0068]              Based on a tactile cue indicating brake line pressure, drivers can adjust
control inputs to optimize the brake line pressure for more grip of the tire during deceleration
and/or cornering. In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message until the
brake line pressure is optimum or alternatively, not optimum. When the tactile messages are
communicating optimum brake line conditions, drivers can maintain the current optimum
brake line achieved. Not receiving a tactile message until the point in time of optimum brake
line pressure (or lack thereof) can increase the ability to communicate other tactile messages
that may be more relevant during certain driving situations.
            [0069]              The vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can include
transitional input ramps. To maximize grip of the vehicle tires on the track, a driver can
make relatively small transitional inputs into the steering, acceleration, and/or braking
controls. The transitional inputs to the controls can result in "ramps" between zero and 100%
of utilization of the available tire grip. The ramps resulting from the control inputs can
mitigate jolts from the vehicle changing direction. A tactile message can communicate to the
driver the ramps between zero and 100% and augment any resulting jolts of the car. The
amplification of jolts can aid the driver in correcting control inputs for a smoother transition
from zero to 100% utilization of available tire grip under, for instance, braking and/or
cornering. Better utilization of the available tire grip can result in better direction changes
and reduced cornering times. For example, drivers can receive a gradient cue with varying
intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to the ramps between zero and
 100%. The ramps tactile messages can replace or supplement the wheel slip tactile messages
for each individual wheel described herein. In certain embodiments, a tactile message can be
a square pattern, with the four corners of the square relating to a particular ramp for each
wheel that is communicated through varying intensity or frequency of the vibration.
            [0070]              In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message until the
ramps are no longer smooth and/or results in jolts of the car. A tactile message can, for
example, consist of a particular one or a particular combination (such as a square pattern with
corners relating to particular tires) of activators 116 vibrating when optimum wheel grip is
lost based on the ramp input, resulting in jolts of the car. Thus, drivers can be provided
feedback on their ramp inputs to help condition optimum use of the tire grip. Not receiving a
                                                         -27
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

tactile message until the point in time of unsmooth ramps and/or resulting jolts of the car can
increase the ability to communicate other tactile messages that may be more relevant during
certain driving situations.
            [0071]              The auxiliary information monitored by the controller 110 can include tire
wear. A driver should balance short term performance of the tire against long term benefits
of prolonging tire life to match a race strategy. The race strategy can include plan to minimize
pit stops by prolonging tire life. Certain driving techniques can sacrifice immediate speed in
order to prolong tire life, which can lead to time saved over an entire race when any time lost
due to slower speeds is less than the time that would have been lost with extra pit stops to
change tires. Thus, the optimum wheel slip and grip points described herein can be balanced
with tire life to achieve an overall better race result, not just an immediate improvement of
acceleration, deceleration, and/or cornering. A tactile message can communicate to the driver
re-affirming cues based on certain driving techniques by, for instance, placing a predictive
value on the remaining tire life. For example, drivers can receive a gradient cue with varying
intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to the remaining tire life. The
gradient can increase, decrease, or change in intensity as the remaining tire life changes
throughout racing or training. The tire life tactile message can either be a constant tactile cue,
or communicated at certain time intervals or reference points during racing or training. The
tire life for each individual wheel can be communicated through a gradient cue with varying
intensity to different parts of the torso as described for front and back wheel speeds, such as
front, back, left, and/or right parts of the torso. The tactile message can be a square pattern,
with the four corners of the square relating to a particular tire life that is communicated
through varying intensity or frequency of the vibration.
            [0072]              Based on a tactile cue indicating the tire life, drivers can adjust control
inputs to optimize the wheel slip for more grip of the tire during deceleration, acceleration,
and/or cornering to prolong the tire life if such a race strategy is desired. Conversely, a tactile
message toward the end of racing or training indicating that more tire life remains than
anticipated, the driver may drive more aggressively toward the latter part of the race or
training session.
                                                         -28
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

            [0073]              In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message until the
tire life is below a predetermined threshold, communicating to the driver an approximate run
time before a pit stop is required. Further, drivers can receive a tactile message providing
feedback when the driver maneuvers the car to decrease tire life beyond a predetermined
threshold for a completed lap, a particular segment of the racetrack, and/or a particular
maneuver such as at a particular corner. Not receiving a tactile message until the point in
time of deviation of the remaining tire life from a predetermined tire life can increase the
ability to communicate other tactile messages that may be more relevant during certain
driving situations.
            [0074]              The vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can include fuel
consumption, which along with tire life information, can be utilized to match a race strategy.
A driver should balance short term car performance that possibly consumes more fuel against
long term benefits of decreasing fuel consumption to match a race strategy of, for example,
minimizing pit stops. Even small changes in steering angle and throttle position can affect
the fuel consumption. Steering angle and throttle position can replace or supplement wheel
slip/grip and/or transitional input ramps information described herein to determine immediate
or long term fuel consumption.                   A tactile message can communicate to a driver when
deteriorating fuel consumption control inputs are detected and help reinforce more fuel
efficient control inputs.                For example, drivers can receive a gradient cue with varying
intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to the remaining fuel. The
gradient can increase, decrease, or change in intensity as the remaining fuel changes
throughout racing or training. The remaining fuel tactile message can either be a constant
tactile cue, or communicated at certain time intervals or reference points during racing or
training.
            [0075]              A tactile message can communicate feedback to the driver when the
steering angle and throttle position is not optimum, resulting in excessive fuel consumption.
Based on the tactile cue indicating fuel consumption in real time, such as an increasing
gradient level as fuel consumption increases during a maneuver, drivers can adjust control
inputs to optimize the steering angle, throttle position, wheel slip/grip, and/or transitional
input ramps to decrease fuel consumption if such a race strategy is desired. Conversely, a
                                                          -29
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

tactile message toward the end of racing or training indicating that more fuel remains than
anticipated, the driver may drive more aggressively toward the latter part of the race or
training session.
            [0076]              In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message until the
fuel is below a predetermined threshold, communicating to the driver an approximate run
time before a pit stop is required. Further, drivers can receive a tactile message providing
feedback when the driver maneuvers the car to increase fuel consumption beyond a
predetermined threshold for a completed lap, a particular segment of the racetrack, and/or a
particular maneuver such as at a particular corner. Not receiving a tactile message until the
point in time of deviation of the remaining fuel from a predetermined fuel life can increase
the ability to communicate other tactile messages that may be more relevant during certain
driving situations. In other embodiments, a tactile apparatus 101 directed to minimizing fuel
consumption as described herein can be utilized in everyday commuter transportation or other
professional driving fields, such as cargo transportation with large trucks.
Gearshift Messaging
            [0077]              The monitored vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can
include the engine revolutions per minute (RPM). To utilize all available engine power for
maximum acceleration, a driver can manually shift gears at the latest point. If the driver
selects a gear too late, the rev limit engages, which limits the RPMs of the engine. With the
rev limit engaged, acceleration is reduced. If the driver selects a gear too early, acceleration
is also compromised by less than optimum use of available engine torque. A tactile message
about the optimum gearshift points can replace or supplement the visual or auditory cues a
driver normally uses for gear shifting. The tactile message can, for instance, utilize a tactile
cue conveying a gradient sense up and down the driver' s body as described herein For
example, drivers may feel a gradient cue with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen,
chest, and/or back).                Once the gradient reaches a predetermined level and/or intensity, the
drivers are notified of the optimum gearshift point. In certain embodiments, drivers will not
receive a tactile message until the optimum gearshift point is present. Not receiving a tactile
message until the point in time of an optimum gearshift can increase the ability to
                                                         -30
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

communicate other tactile messages that may be more relevant during certain driving
situations.
            [0078]              A tactile message can communicate feedback to drivers on whether an
optimum gearshift point was executed. For example, the tactile message may communicate a
gradient cue with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) with the
gradient level being higher or more intense as a driver performs a gearshift farther away from
an optimum gearshift point. Thus, achievement of an optimum gearshift point may be a
single activator 116 vibrating after the gearshift, confirming the achievement of the optimum
gearshift point to the driver.
            [0079]              Optimum gearshift points can also be utilized during deceleration.
Maximizing the engine RPMs while downshifting gears in braking situations can help
decelerate a car. The selected gear should match the wheel speed of the car with the optimum
engine RPM to help avoid compression lock up and engine damage through excessive engine
RPM that can be generated by an imposed high wheel speed.                     A tactile message can
communicate to the driver an optimum relationship between the wheel speed, engine RPM,
and gear to be selected. For example, drivers may feel a gradient cue with varying intensity
on their abdomen and/or chest relating to the wheel speeds. In addition, the drivers may feel
a vertical gradient with varying intensity on their back relating to the current RPMs.           At
another place on their torso, the drivers can be notified of an optimum engine RPM based on
a gradient cue with varying intensity along with what gear will achieve the optimum engine
RPM relative to the present wheel speed(s).                 The choice of gear can be communicated
through a sequential vibration of the activators 116 in a linear fashion along the torso, with
the first activator 116 indicating the first gear, the second activator 116 indicating the second
gear, etc.
            [0080]              Based on a tactile comparison of the two or more gradient cues with
varying intensity relating to the RPMs and the wheel speed(s), drivers can optimize
deceleration by matching wheel speeds with optimum RPM through a selection of a tactilely
indicated optimum gear. In certain embodiments, drivers will not receive a tactile message
until the relative wheel speed(s) matches an optimum engine RPM that would be achieved
based on a next gearshift down (e.g., from fourth to third gear). A tactile message can, for
                                                        -31
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

example, consist of a particular one or a particular combination (such as a square pattern) of
activators 116 vibrating when optimum RPMs relative to the wheel speed(s) is present.
Thus, drivers can be notified when maximum deceleration can be achieved. Not receiving a
tactile message until the point in time of maximum deceleration or optimum match of wheel
speeds to RPM can increase the ability to communicate other tactile messages that may be
more relevant during certain driving situations.
            [0081]              The controller 110 can monitor actual RPM and rate of RPM change to
provide a tactile message that indicates rate of approach to a gear shift point as well as the
gear shift point itself. The controller 110 can monitor wheel speed from all four wheels to
identify wheel spin and provide a tactile message that assists with power management (e.g.,
braking, deceleration, acceleration, etc.) during starts and exits from turns and/or corners.
Reference Points Messaging
            [0082]              The auxiliary information can include reference points on a racetrack
including for braking (deceleration), steering angle, acceleration, wheel slip/grip, tire life,
and/or fuel consumption, and vehicle location, which can be based on input from a global
positioning system. A driver can learn a racetrack and can look for visual markers on where,
for instance, a latest or optimum braking point is on the racetrack. A tactile message can
communicate the same visual cues more precisely as reference points based on vehicle
location. A tactile system can be configured based on an input of known GPS coordinates of
optimum reference points. In other embodiments, the tactile system may support the ability
for a driver to inform the system of particular locations to be used for generating certain types
of cues. The system can be placed into a configuration mode in which the driver circles the
track and marks specific locations (such as by pressing a button on the vest). The controller
 110 can log the coordinates (GPS and/or field sensor/beacon based) to be used for generating
reference point tactile messages as described herein.               The coordinates can be adjusted as
needed if, for instance, the driver may have been mistimed entering an optimum reference
point. Further, the tactile system can shift those reference points based on a desired race or
training strategy as described herein such as prolonging or decreasing tire life and/or fuel
consumption. The shift in race strategy can occur in real time during racing or training such
                                                        -32
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

as when the tactile system determines that more tire life and fuel remains than needed at a
particular reference point.
            [0083]              In some embodiments, a tactile message can communicate progressive
information to help the driver anticipate an approaching reference point. A tactile message
can also communicate to the driver an optimum point to release the brake and/or release the
gas pedal. For example, drivers can receive a gradient cue with varying intensity on their
torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to an approaching reference point. The gradient
can increase, decrease, or change in intensity as the reference point approaches or passes
based on vehicle location.
            [0084]              A tactile message can communicate feedback to the driver whether the
optimum braking (deceleration), steering angle, acceleration, wheel slip/grip, tire life, and/or
fuel consumption at a particular reference point was achieved. For instance, particular set of
activators 116 may be activated in a linear fashion to indicate by how many fractions of a
second or whole seconds that driver missed the reference point to make the optimum control
input.
            [0085]              When the auxiliary information can include reference points on a racetrack
for a steering angle, a driver can learn a racetrack and can look for visual markers on where,
for instance, to take a particular steering angle into a corner.                  A tactile message can
communicate the same visual cues on when to take a steering angle more precisely as
reference points based on vehicle location. A tactile message can also communicate if the
driver is under steering or over steering at a particular reference point. A tactile message
communicating reference points for a steering angle and/or over or under steering can help
optimize cornering abilities and save time. For example, drivers can receive a gradient cue
with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to an approaching
reference point and an optimum steering angle.                  The gradient can increase, decrease, or
change in intensity as the reference point approaches or passes based on vehicle location.
Further, a different tactile gradient cue can increase, decrease, or change in intensity as the
driver turns the steering wheel in a particular direction communicating any deviation from an
optimum steering angle.
                                                         -33
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

            [0086]              A tactile message can communicate feedback to the driver whether the
optimum steering angle at a particular reference point was achieved. For instance, particular
set of activators 116 may activate in a linear fashion to indicate by how many degrees the
driver missed the desired steering angle.
            [0087]              When the auxiliary information can include reference points on a racetrack
for acceleration, a driver can learn a racetrack and can look for visual markers on where, for
instance, an earliest or optimum acceleration point is on the racetrack. A tactile message can
communicate the same visual cues for acceleration more precisely as reference points based
on vehicle location. In some embodiments, a tactile message can communicate progressive
information to help the driver anticipate an approaching reference point for acceleration. A
tactile message can also communicate to the driver an optimum point to stop accelerating.
For example, a tactile gradient cue can increase, decrease, or change in intensity as the driver
changes or maintains a certain acceleration at a particular reference point, communicating any
deviation from optimum acceleration.
            [0088]              A tactile message can communicate feedback to the driver whether the
optimum acceleration at a particular reference point was achieved. For instance, particular
set of activators 116 may activate in a linear fashion to indicate by how much the actual
speed of the car is different from an optimum speed that could have been achieved based on
an optimum acceleration                   from a particular reference point.        The tactile message
communicates to the driver whether acceleration was too high or too low from the particular
reference point.
            [0089]              The auxiliary information can include reference points on a racetrack to
notify a driver of an approaching corner. A tactile message can communicate a reference
points for approaching corners by surveying a course before a race event and configuring the
tactile system as described herein.               Notifying the driver of an approaching corner can be
useful for blind corners, long stage races such as a Road Rally race where a driver' s memory
is inaccurate, and/or nighttime racing where visibility can be poor. For example, drivers can
receive a gradient cue with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back)
relating to an approaching corner. The gradient can increase, decrease, or change in intensity
as the car nears the approaching corner. Another gradient cue with varying intensity on the
                                                         -34
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

torso can communicate the angle of the approaching corner by increasing the gradient cue in
length or intensity.               In certain embodiments, the tactile system can combine approaching
corners information with reference point information for braking (deceleration), steering
angle, acceleration, wheel slip/grip, tire life, fuel consumption, and/or weight distribution to
improve and optimize performance.
            [0090]              The execution information can include time gain or loss from reference
laps and/or from reference points. Data available in a data logger and/or input available from
a global positioning system can be utilized to log a reference lap or sector time. Sectors can
be reference markers placed along a racetrack, splitting the racetrack into predetermined
segments. A tactile message can communicate to a driver time gain or loss from reference
laps and/or from reference points in real time.              The tactile message can allow a driver to
know in real time how a self-correction or a new technique affects a lap or sector time.
Either with or without GPS input, the controller 110 can monitor distance traveled from a
reference point and/or start line to determine the position of the car to, for example, compare
a reference lap to a new lap. For example, drivers can receive a gradient cue with varying
intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to a reference time at a
particular reference point. A particular set of activators 116 may be activated in a linear
fashion to indicate by how many fractions of a second, whole seconds, and/or minutes that
driver is ahead or behind on time at a reference point.
Messaging Regarding Relative Positions of Nearby Cars
            [0091]              A racecar can include sensors that can sense the relative position and
change in position (trajectory) of a nearby racecar on the track. Sensors can be located on the
front, back, or sides of the racecar. In some embodiments, the controller 110 can determine
the position and change in position of a nearby racecar(s) based on data received from GPS
and/or beacons configured to track movements of the racecars.
            [0092]              The controller 110 can be configured to receive the sensor signal data
corresponding to the position and/or change in position of a nearby racecar and to convey this
message to the driver via one or more tactile messages.                 For example, when a racecar is
nearby, a particular tactor in the tactile apparatus 101 can activate. When the nearby racecar
                                                        -35
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

changes position relative to the driver's racecar, the tactile signal may increase in intensity as
the nearby racecar approaches or may decrease in intensity as the nearby racecar moves away.
            [0093]              For example, the driver may feel a gradient cue with varying intensity on
their abdomen and/or chest relating to nearby racecars in front of the driver' s racecar The
driver may feel a vertical gradient with varying intensity on their back relating to the nearby
racecars in back of the driver' s racecar Similar principles can be applied regarding nearby
racecars on the sides of the driver' s racecar. The controller 110 may additionally or
alternatively detect that a nearby racecar is attempting to pass and may immediately convey
this information to the driver.
            [0094]              The controller 110 can alter performance-related tactile messages as
described herein based on the position of a nearby racecar. For example, when the nearby
racecar is in front of the driver' s racecar, the cuatroller 110 can alter the tactile cue message
regarding optimum acceleration such as decreasing the rate of acceleration.                    As another
example, the controller 110 can determine the optimum steering angle and acceleration to
maximize the possibility of passing the nearby racecar.                 Similarly, the controller 110 can
determine how to alter optimum braking, timing of gear selection, entry and exit speeds,
and/or entry and exit lines tactile messages based on the position and change in position of
the nearby racecar. The altered tactile messages can, for example, help avoid an accident if
the unmodified queued tactile message was communicating a trajectory that would have
caused the driver to collide with the nearby car.
            [0095]              The controller 110 can alter the post-event feedback messages based on
position and change in position of a nearby racecar. For example, the controller 110 can
generate a post-event feedback message indicating whether the driver took proper action to
pass the nearby racecar.
Other Racecar Tactile Messaging and Uses
            [0096]              The vehicle information monitored by the controller 110 can include a
weight distribution across four tires of the car. Acceleration can be optimized when the
weight distribution of a vehicle is more equal across four wheels of the vehicle. A tactile
message can communicate to the driver an augmented sense of the weight distribution of the
                                                         -36
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

vehicle across the four wheels to replace or supplement a sense of weight distribution the
driver may already have based on a roll of the vehicle.                     Communication of the weight
distribution of the vehicle can help correct any driver tendency to not value the weight
distribution in vehicle performance.                For example, drivers can receive a varying intensity
tactile cue on their torso in the shape of a square with each corner correlating to the weight
distributed on a particular wheel. The intensity can increase, decrease, or change as weight
placed on each wheel changes.                    Weight distribution can also be communicated with a
gradient cue with varying intensity on the torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to the
weight placed on each wheel. There can be four gradient cues correlating to each wheel of
the car that increase, decrease, or change in intensity as the weight placed on each wheel
changes.
            [0097]              The weight distribution tactile message can either be a constant tactile cue,
communicated at certain time intervals or reference points during racing or training, and/or
communicated when the weight distribution on a particular wheel exceeds a predetermined
amount. Not receiving a tactile message until the point in time of deviation of the weight
distribution from a predetermined weight distribution can increase the ability to communicate
other tactile messages that may be more relevant during certain driving situations. In another
embodiment, the tactile message communicating the weight distribution as described herein
can be reproduced on a training simulator to replace or supplement throwing the driver
around to mimic steering into a corner.
            [0098]              The controller 110 can utilize a control theory concept of observability to
estimate data that cannot be sensed directly from sensors on a car because of regulations or
cost of direct sensors.              The control theory concept of observability can be a mathematical
software model of the vehicle. The observer model of the vehicle can be used to estimate the
optimal steering angle in a turn and/or a corner from GPS location data, wheel speeds, and/or
accelerometer data with or without a gyro. The observer model of the vehicle can predict
impending wheel lock up during braking (before the wheels actually lock) to allow the driver
an opportunity to modulate braking forces for optimal performance. The observer model of
the vehicle can also incorporate environmental data such as track maps, rain sensors, and/or
temperature probes to adjust the tactile cues for the current race conditions.
                                                          -37
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

            [0099]              The tactile message can relate to a quality of the data being communicated.
For example, left rear wheel spin can appear on the left side of the driver's back. A gear shift
point (for a left hand drive vehicle) can rise along the driver's right side as the RPM
approaches the optimum shift point. Lap time gain or loss can appear on the driver's back or
front (respectively) at multiple points around the track.                      The tactile device 101 can
communicate a spatial cue by changing the physical location of the tactile message.                      The
tactile device 101 can communicate different channels of data (similar to different tones or
colors) and/or magnitude or urgency by changing a frequency and/or rate of the tactile
message.
            [0100]              A tactile vest or other tactile apparatus 101 can be worn by a passenger,
such as a student, as a training tool. While a driver or instructor is maneuvering a vehicle,
the passenger can experience an augmented sense of the vehicle movements and operating
parameters as described herein in response to the instructor' s control input, which can be
useful to demonstrate a technique the instructor is teaching.                      As another example, the
passenger can be an engineer assessing the vehicle' s movements based on the driver' s control
inputs. The engineer can use tactile messages as described herein to, for instance, fine tune
and/or customize the vehicle' s responses to a drive' s input or test an effect on the vehicle' s
response based on a mechanical and/or electronic modification to the vehicle. Further, the
driver can use a tactile apparatus when reviewing data in a simulator or on a screen to aid in
improvement analysis as described for Figure 2. The engineer can use a tactile apparatus
when reviewing data in a simulator or on a screen to aid in corrective engineering. Wearing a
tactile apparatus while reviewing data in the data logger can aid the driver in remembering
the vehicle' s response based on the driver' &ontrol inputs.                     Similarly, wearing a tactile
apparatus can aid the engineer in understanding the vehicle' s response based on te driver' s
control inputs and any vehicle mechanical and/or electronic modifications. A tactile vest or
other tactile apparatus 101 can be worn by engineers and other team members (e.g., other
team drivers) at a remote location (e.g., team garage) to receive the same tactile messages
wirelessly in real time as being received by the driver of the car on the racetrack. Engineers
and other team drivers receiving the same tactile message in real time can further help
develop engineering solutions, such as during time critical testing, and also can allow the
                                                           -38
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

other team drivers to simultaneously experience the behavior of the car to offer an informed
alternative opinion for performance improvement.
            [0101]              The auxiliary information can include pit crew information.      Pit crew
information includes information that optimizes pit stop efficiency and improves pit stop
safety with tactile apparatuses worn by pit crew members.                        A tactile message can
communicate to individual pit crew members the status of the other pit members' functions
such as when will the vehicle' s fut tank be full in order to properly time changing of the tires
to be ready at the same time.                   Correspondingly, a tactile message can communicate to
individual pit crew members the status of their own functions such as fuel feed or tension on
an air gun when tightening a wheel. For example, pit crew members can receive a gradient
cue with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to a particular
pit crew function such as the gradient increasing as the fuel tank fills with fuel or as tension
on an air gun increases. A plurality of gradients on the torso can correspond to the different
pit crew functions being communicated in real time.                     A specific activator 116 can be
correlated with a particular pit crew function and activated depending on the function being
communicated to the pit crew member. The pit crew members can receive tactile messages
relating all pit function available or can toggle through the available tactile messages with,
for example, a switch attached to the tactile apparatus. A tactile message can also assist the
car' s controller tosafely and efficiently release the car into a pit lane.
Yacht Racing Applications
            [0102]              A tactile apparatus 101 can be used to improve yacht racing performance.
Yachts can include any boat or vessel for traveling on water, including vessels ranging from a
dinghy class through a large yacht used for events such as America' s (hp match races. The
yacht can be a single or multi-hulled vessel. The yacht can be propelled by wind, such as
when sailing. The capture of wind energy can be by sail, wing sail, and/or wing. A tactile
apparatus 101 can be used to improve performance, including provide cues related to what
tasks are to performed, provide cues related to adjustments of yacht control inputs, provide
cues related the order of tasks to be performed, warn of in an impending event, provide
information related to the position of nearby yachts, provide information related to sailing
                                                          -39
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

conditions, act as a safety aid, and/or other suitable uses that can be conveyed via a tactile
message.
            [0103]              The tactile apparatus 101 for a yacht racing can function substantially the
same and have substantially the same components as described herein for motorsports. A
tactile apparatus 101 can have substantially the same controller 110 and control schemes as
described herein. The controller 110 can have a memory 304. The memory 304 can have
program code 306 that the controller 110 can draw upon as a database of for specific tactile
outputs based on the yacht-related information. The program code 306 can implement the
algorithms and program logic for performing the various functions described herein,
including the analyzing of yacht-related information and the generating of tactile messages to
be conveyed via a vest worn by a user. The tactile apparatus 101 can have a wired and/or
wireless transceiver to receive information related to the yacht' s operation aul sailing
condition. Any one or more crewmembers on the yacht can wear a tactile vest (or other
tactile device) that can include a wireless transceiver to, for example, receive messages over a
wireless network and/or broadcast the vest' sposition. The tactile apparatus 101 can have a
user-interface for selecting when and what types of tactile messages are to be delivered. The
user-interface can allow for a selection of certain crewmember to receive a selection of
certain types of tactile messages.
            [0104]              In competitive sailing or yacht racing, a crew comprising crewmembers,
such as a skipper and sailor(s), maneuvers the yacht to maximize performance given certain
sailing conditions.               Sailing conditions can include wind direction, wind strength, sea state
(e.g., waves and swell), and/or tide (e.g., currents induced by the rise and fall of sea level).
The crew will maneuver the yacht to convert available wind energy into momentum in a
desired direction.                Control inputs to control the progress and direction of the yacht can
include tiller/wheel position, sail trim (e.g., outhaul, Cunningham, boom vang, sail sheet
positions), disposition of the yacht (e.g., amount of lean), and/or position of the crew (e.g.,
weight distribution on the yacht). Once the yacht is moving in a desired direction, the crew
can manipulate control inputs to maximize the use of the available wind energy while
minimizing losses that can result from, for example, incorrect yacht and/or sail angle.
                                                          -40
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

            [0105]              During competitive sailing or yacht racing, a sailor can be subjected to
environmental elements and movement of the boat, which can make it difficult to concentrate
on data readers.                  Data readers can provide sailing information such as performance
indications of the yacht during sailing. A tactile apparatus 101 can be used to convey to a
sailor messages related to the data readers to help optimize yacht performance as described
herein.
            [0106]              A crewmember can be expected to perform or may be responsible for
multiple tasks.               In particular, a skipper and a tactician may have the most performance
indicators received via tactile messages to continuously yacht performance.               The controller
 101 can be configured to allow a sailor to group the tactile cues into groups (or categories).
For example, the sailor may choose to receive group(s) of information via tactile messages
while continuing to monitor other group(s) of information through data readers.                       In
competitions with a limited number of crewmembers (e.g., a racing team can consist of a
single person on board the yacht during competition), the sailor can alternate between single
or groups of tactile messages depending on the sailing conditions, yacht direction, yacht
location on the course, etc.
            [0107]              The controller 101 can be configured to group sailors into groups. For
example, a skipper and a tactician can be one group that receives most or all of the tactile
messages available to improve the performance of the yacht, such as, for example, warning of
in an impending event, cues regarding the order of tasks to be performed, information related
to the position of nearby yachts, and/or information related to sailing conditions. The skipper
can choose to receive tactile messages related to direction of the yacht, yacht speed, lay line
(most efficient point to make a turn), and/or course/field out of bounds warnings. Other
groups of sailors can receive a specific group, category, and/or type of information related to
performance, such as, for example, cues regarding the order of tasks to be performed. For
example, the main trimmer can receive tactile messages related to lean of the yacht. Yacht
lean can be particularly useful information in boat racing events such as America's Cup where
the objective can be to have one hull of the yacht out of the water, but not tip the yacht over.
            [0108]              The controller 110 can include a master switch that stops or suppresses
some or all tactile messages. The master switch can be used to stop all tactile messages when
                                                         -41
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

the tactile messages could distract crewmembers from their tasks. For example, the yacht
may end up in the position where it will not make a turning point if the yacht operation is
continued in an efficient matter. The crew may have a choice of putting in an extra two tacks
or to drive the boat at a sub optimal speed to gain enough distance around the turning point
without making extra tacks. The momentum of the yacht may be sufficient that continuing in
a less efficient direction, but avoiding extra tacks, may be a faster course path than the
optimal direction.               During this procedure (may be known as "pinching"), tactile messages
related to optimal operation of the yacht may be distracting and unnecessary since the
crewmembers will be consciously driving the yacht in a suboptimal manner.
            [0109]              The master switch can be used to have the controller 110 stop or suppress
some or all of the tactile messages.                Some tactile messages that the crewmembers may
continue to receive even with the master switch activated to suppress tactile message can
include information related to safety as described herein. The master switch can be manually
activated and/or deactivated.                In some embodiments, the master switch can be manually
activated and automatically deactivate after the yacht passing a specific reference point or
after a predetermined amount of time has elapsed. In some embodiments, the master switch
can automatically activate when the controller 110 determines that a procedure such as
"pinching" is being performed.
            [0110]              The controller 110 can monitor sensors that may already exist on the
yacht. The data readers displaying information from sensors can include sailing information,
such as, for example, yacht speed, yacht direction, yacht location, disposition of the yacht,
tiller/wheel position, and/or sail trim. Sail trim can include, for example, sail position of the
outhaul, Cunningham, boom vang, and/or sail sheet position. Disposition of the yacht can
include, for example, lean of the yacht. In operation, the captain will set a course and the
crew will then aim to maximize the yacht speed by adjusting the trim of the sails. For a given
wind speed and direction with a particular yacht heading (direction of progress), the
controller 101 can generate a tactile message to convey an ideal sail trim for a particular tiller
position. The controller 101 can alter a tactile message related to ideal sail trim based on the
sea state.           The controller 101 can adjust the tactile message to be delivered based on
parameter inputs related to yacht design. For example, yacht designs may make trade-offs
                                                        -42
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

such as designing the yacht to be faster in a particular sailing direction. A yacht can be
designed to be faster downwind than upwind. As another example, a yacht design may
dictate how closely to the wind line the yacht can sail upwind.
            [0111]              The controller 110 can monitor the progress of the tasks of each
crewmember through the yacht sensor data indicating the current settings (e.g., tiller, sail
trim). If a crewmember omits a step in the process and/or fails to complete the process to
optimize the performance of the yacht as described herein, the controller 110 can generate a
tactile message as a reminder to the crewmember to complete the step in the process in real
time before the crewmember moves onto the next step and/or to complete the task in progress
before proceeding to the next task (e.g., next duty to be performed by the crewmember).
            [0112]              The tactile apparatus can be used to silently communicate to the entire
crew a change in sailing strategy. In competitions where the yachts are in close quarters and
commands from the skipper can be overheard by a competing team, the skipper can use the
tactile apparatus to command the controller 110 to generate a tactile message that silently
indicates either a series of commands or a change in strategy to all crewmembers or a selector
group(s) of crewmembers.
Examples of Yacht Racing Applications-Helmsman Messages
            [0113]              Similar to applications to motorsport racing, a tactile apparatus can be
used to optimize the performance of a yacht' s crew during training, racing, or other
competitions. All or some of the crewmembers can wear a tactile apparatus 101. The tactile
apparatus 101 can replace or supplement the base instrumentation that may be installed on
the yacht. Base instrumentation may provide information about yacht speed, yacht direction,
yacht location, disposition of the yacht, tiller/wheel position, sail trim, wind speed, wind
direction, etc. The base information can be displayed on data readers. In the event that data
readers on the yacht fail, the tactile apparatus 101 can replace or supplement the data readers
to help ensure optimal performance of the yacht even during yacht equipment malfunction.
The tactile apparatus 101 can also serve as a warning device when base instrumentation or
other equipment on the yacht fails. For example, the skipper can be alerted when any base
                                                          -43
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

instrumentation has malfunctioned such as, for example, when a base instrument stops
outputting a signal.
            [0114]              The controller 110 can monitor sensor data such as, for example, wind
direction, wind strength, location of course markers (e.g., buoys), current position of the
yacht. The controller 110 can monitor sea state, tide, and rig selection (numbers 1, 2, 3, etc.).
The controller 110 can determine an optimal heading or optimal plan of progress for the
yacht based on the monitored data and communicate the optimal heading to a helmsman
wearing the tactile apparatus 101, including, for example, a tactile vest. The controller 110
can generate a tactile message conveying to the helmsman when there is an opportunity, for
example, to take advantage of a temporary or permanent change in sailing conditions. The
change in sailing conditions can be change in wind speed and/or direction.                   The tactile
apparatus 101 can help a helmsman realize the change in sailing conditions in real time. The
controller 110, using observer algorithms as described herein, can collect data when the sail
trim and/or yacht direction was optimum in the past. The collected data can be stored in
memory 304. Using the collected data for optimum sail trim and/or yacht direction, the
controller 110 can determine the theoretically optimum sail trim and/or yacht direction based
on the sailing conditions.               The helmsman can initially set sail trim and/or yacht direction
using base instrumentation (e.g., data readers) and receive tactile messages that help fine tune
or make final adjustments to the sail trim and/or tiller/wheel position.               For example, the
helmsman may feel a gradient cue with varying intensity on his/her abdomen and/or chest
relating to the front sail trim-the further away the sail trim is away from optimum, the larger
the gradient and/or intensity. In addition, the helmsman may feel a vertical gradient with
varying intensity on his/her back relating yacht direction (related to the tiller/wheel
position)-the further away the yacht direction is away from optimum, the larger the gradient
and/or intensity.
            [0115]              As another example, the helmsman can receive a tactile message that can
help further optimize yacht course. When the goal of the crew is to end up at a specific point
faster, the controller 110 can determine if the theoretical optimum sail trim and/or yacht
direction can be changed to better suit the sailing conditions. The theoretical course line
discussed herein as theoretical optimum sail trim and/or yacht direction can be the fastest
                                                        -44
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

approach to getting to a specific point. However, the controller 110 may determine that the
theoretical optimum sail trim and/or yacht direction may not be the fastest approach to getting
to a specific point. For example, the controller 110 can determine that the yacht may gain
more speed at a different sail trim and/or yacht direction than the theoretical optimum sail
trim and/or yacht direction.                 The controller 110 can generate a tactile message to the
helmsman that conveys a different sail trim and/or yacht direction from the theoretical
optimum sail trim and/or yacht direction along with the potential performance improvement,
such as increased speed. The tactile messaging patterns related to sail trim and/or yacht
course can be as described herein. In some embodiments, the controller 110 can generate a
gradient cue on a different part of the vest conveying tactile messages related to the
difference between the theoretical optimum sail trim and/or yacht direction and the
potentially faster sail trim and/or yacht direction-the larger the difference, the larger the
gradient and/or intensity of the tactile message.
            [0116]              The controller 110 can continuously monitor the yacht speed, and convey
in real time any change in yacht speed. The helmsman can make adjustments to sail trim
and/or yacht direction to either maximize speed gain or minimize speed loss. The real time
effect of the adjustments on yacht speed can be conveyed to the helmsman via a tactile
message. For example, the helmsman may feel a gradient cue on a predetermined part of the
vest that changes in gradient and/or intensity as yacht speed changes. The helmsman may
feel a downwardly gradient cue with varying intensity if adjustments decreased yacht speed.
Conversely, the helmsman may feel an upwardly gradient cue with varying intensity if the
adjustments increase yacht speed. The tactile message communicating the yacht speed and/or
change in yacht speed can replace or supplement the base instruments conveying yacht speed
and/or change in yacht speed.
            [0117]              To further optimize yacht performance, the controller 110 can monitor the
performance of a nearby yacht, including position and change in position of the nearby yacht.
For example, the controller 110 can receive information related to the position and change in
position of the nearby yacht from yacht sensors and/or a global positioning system.                  The
system can alter or re-prioritize tactile messages based on position and change in position of
the nearby yacht. For example, depending on the position and change in position (trajectory)
                                                         -45
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

of the nearby yacht, the system may modify the tactile messages relating to tiller/wheel
position, sail trim, yacht direction, and/or the like.
            [0118]              The controller 110 can assess whether the nearby yacht performs better or
worse than the helmsman's yacht. For example, the controller 110 can determine when the
nearby yacht performs better or worse based on a comparison of one or more tacks performed
by both the helmsman' s yacht and the nearby yacht. The controller 110 can determine the
cause of the differences in the one or more tack performances and generate an exception
report that can be conveyed to the helmsman via a tactile message.                     For example, the
controller 110 may determine that the setting of a sail sheet pulley on the deck is not
optimized based on a time difference of tack performances.                   The helmsman may send a
message to a crewmember communicating any adjustments to be made to, for example, the
sheet pulley. In some embodiments, the exception report can also be conveyed directly to a
crewmember to adjust the setting of the sheet pulley.                  The crewmember may then either
adjust the settings of the sheet pulley, or wait for further instructions from the helmsman to
do so. When the crewmember simultaneously (with the helmsman) receives the exception
report, the crewmember is given a forewarning to a possible adjustment about to be
commanded by the helmsman. The helmsman can then monitor the next tack to see if the
adjustments improved yacht performance (or tack performance) in comparison with the
nearby yacht.
            [0119]              As another example, the helmsman may receive a tactile message that
conveys lay lines and/or course boundaries. A lay line can be the point where a yacht should
make a turn to optimize its progress to the next specific point (i.e., a buoy). The controller
110 can monitor the yacht' s current position and caavey to the helmsman when the lay line is
approaching or convey the point when the yacht reaches the lay line. For example, the
helmsman may feel an increasing gradient cue with varying intensity at a predetermined spot
on the vest as the yacht approaches closer to a lay line and/or course boundary. As another
example, the gradient cue may increase toward a tactile reference point on the vest as the
yacht approaches closer to the lay line and/or course boundary. When the helmsman receives
information regarding the lay line in real time, the helmsman can more fully concentrate on
optimally controlling the yacht, such as turning (tacking) procedures, to help maintain yacht
                                                         -46
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

speed. Receiving information regarding the lay line in real time can help the helmsman bring
the yacht as close as possible to the lay line.
            [0120]              The controller 110 can generate a tactile message conveying when a yacht
is approaching course boundary lines. Receiving information regarding the course boundary
lines in real time can help alert the helmsman when the yacht is approaching too close to a
boundary line. Yachts may have a system of lights to warn a helmsman when the yacht is
approaching course boundaries, but as discussed herein, a tactile apparatus 101 can either
replace or supplement any visual or auditory system provided on the yacht.
            [0121]              As another example, the rate of turning around a specific point (i.e., a
buoy) may be optimized, similar to as discussed herein for motorsport racing regarding entry
and exit speeds around a corner. The controller 110 can monitor tiller/wheel position, sail
trim, yacht direction, location of the yacht, location of the buoy, wind strength, wind
direction, sea state, and/or sea tide to determine an optimum speed approaching the buoy,
coming around the buoy, and/or moving away from the buoy. For example, based on the
sailing conditions, yacht performance may be optimized by approaching the buoy at a slower
speed such that coming around buoy and/or moving away from the buoy may be
accomplished more efficiently such that the overall performance (speed) of the yacht is
optimized. The controller 110 can generate a tactile message conveying to the helmsman the
optimum tiller setting to get around the buoy as quickly as possible.                   For example, the
helmsman may feel a tactile gradient cue at a predetermined spot on the tactile vest that
increases in gradient and/or intensity as the actual tiller setting is moved further away from
the optimum tiller setting.
            [0122]              During some sailing competitions, the (least) distance between the yacht
and the buoy may be regulated. Similar to lay line and/or course boundary tactile messages,
the controller 110 can generate a tactile message conveying to helmsman when the yacht is
too close and/or approaching too close to the buoy.                      The controller 110 can monitor
tiller/wheel position, sail trim, yacht direction, location of the yacht, location of the buoy,
wind strength, wind direction, sea state, and/or sea tide to determine an optimum entry and
exit path around the buoy as discussed herein. For example, based on sailing conditions,
variables being monitored by the controller 110, and/or the regulated distance between the
                                                         -47
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

yacht and buoy, an optimum entry line may initially place the yacht further away from the
buoy than the regulated distance such that the yacht may turn at a slower rate and maintain
more speed (overall momentum) coming around the buoy. The controller 110 can generate a
tactile message communicating to the helmsman deviation of the yacht path from the
optimum entry and exit line as described herein.                     As another example, if the sailing
conditions are light (i.e., slow wind speed), the helmsman may desire to keep the yacht
balanced (more upright). An upright yacht can be more easily controlled by subtle changes to
the control inputs. More subtle changes in control inputs can result in smoother changes in
yacht progress that can help maintain yacht speed.
            [0123]              As another example, the controller 110 can monitor the location of the
crewmembers on the boat.                   For example, each crewmember vest may include a position
locator circuit which monitors and broadcasts the vest' sposition relative to a stationary
beacon mounted on the yacht. When a crewmember is overboard, the controller 110 can
convey a tactile message indicating to the other crewmembers                         or select group of
crewmembers that a crewmember is overboard. The controller 110 can determine optimum
yacht performance as described herein to change course and pick up the overboard
crewmember. In some boat racing competitions, a yacht team may continue without picking
up an overboard crewmember in exchange for taking a penalty.                      The controller 110 can
determine based on sailing conditions an estimated loss in time to pick up the overboard
crewmember and communicate this information to the helmsman and/or skipper via a tactile
message. The helmsman may use this information to determine how overall performance or
standing in the race would be affected by either turning around to pick up the crewmember or
continuing with the race while taking the penalty. In some embodiments, the controller 110
can determine a predicted change in race standing based on either picking up or leaving
behind the overboard crewmember and convey the prediction to the helmsman via a tactile
message.
            [0124]              The controller 110 can determine the desired location on the yacht of each
crewmember based on sailing conditions and, for example, each crewmembers weight and/or
duties to be performed. For example, during yacht lean, it may be desirable for some or all of
the crewmembers to be at a particular location and/or side of the yacht to help prevent further
                                                         -48
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

lean. The controller 110 can generate a tactile message to convey to each crewmember the
desired position for the crewmember. For example, the controller 110 can generate a tactile
cue at a predetermined spot on the vest corresponding to a particular location on the yacht.
The controller 110 may determine that some crewmembers will have to remain mobile based
on the crewmember' s function and communicate to sont crewmembers, but not others, an
optimal location and/or side of the yacht to optimize yacht lean.
            [0125]              In some embodiments, each tactile vest may also serve as a life vest. For
example, the tactile vest may include a sufficient quantity of an appropriate high buoyancy
material to serve as a regulation-compliant life vest, and/or may include one or more
inflatable bladders.
Examples of Yacht Racing Applications-Trimmer Messages
            [0126]              A trimmer controls the trim of the sails. Similar to the tactile messages
received by the helmsman, the trimmer can receive tactile messages generated by the
controller 110 that communicate current sail trim versus optimum sail trim. For example, the
trimmer may feel an increasing gradient cue with varying intensity at a predetermined spot on
the vest-the larger the difference between the actual versus optimum sail trim, the larger the
gradient and/or intensity. The optimum sail trim tactile message can include information
regarding theoretical optimum sail trim and a potentially faster yacht speed sail trim. The
controller 110 can monitor yacht lean and/or other yacht performance variables to determine,
for example, the likelihood of the yacht tipping and/or the likelihood of the windward hull
dropping into the water and communicate to the trimmer via tactile message the likelihood.
For example, a gradient cue with varying intensity at a predetermined spot on the vest that
increases as the likelihood increases.
            [0127]              For a particular wind speed and direction with a particular yacht heading
(direction of progress), there can be an optimum sail trim for a particular tiller position.
Under certain yacht and sailing conditions, a change in the tiller position can fail to change
the direction of the yacht.                This is known as "weather helm" and can happen when the
trimmer fails to adjust the sail trim based on a wind gust. Thus, sail trim can influence the
effectiveness of the tiller' s ability to control the yadat.             The controller 110 can monitor
                                                         -49
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

changes in wind speeds to communicate to the trimmer via tactile message when action is
required to adjust the sail trim to help avoid "weather helm".
            [0128]              In some multiwall yachts with wingsails, wings, and/or foils, the trimmer
can follow a sequence of base adjustments and then use a prime control input to make finer
adjustments as required. The controller 110 can communicate to the trimmer via a tactile
message the optimal base adjustment sequence and/or optimal prime control adjustments to
achieve desired sail trim as described herein.
            [0129]              As another example, the controller 110 can monitor indicators on the sails
that warn when the sails are not efficiently trimmed, resulting in, for example, luffing.
Luffing indicators on the sails may not always be easily visible to the trimmer. The controller
 110 can monitor the luffing indicators and determine optimal sail trim. The controller 110
can communicate to the trimmer via a tactile message the optimal sail trim as described
herein.         In some embodiments, the controller 110 can communicate via a tactile message
luffing indicator information. For example, the trimmer may feel a gradient cue with varying
intensity that increases in gradient and/or intensity as the luffing indicators send signals
indicating a higher likelihood of luffing or actual luffing taking place. The tactile message
can be at a predetermined spot on the vest correlated to a particular sail of the yacht.
            [0130]              As another example, the controller 110 can monitor when the sail sheets
get caught in a wench. When the sail sheets are caught in a wench, the sail sheets cannot be
readily adjusted. The controller 110 can determine when the sail sheets cannot be readily
adjusted to communicate to the crewmember via a tactile message in real time the possibility
that a sail sheet is caught. For example, a particular tactor may activate that is correlated to a
particular wench, communicating to the trimmer to check the wench. Early detection by the
crewmembers of a problem such as caught sheets can help increase the ability to quickly and
easily fix the problem.
Other Sports or Applications
            [0131]              A tactile apparatus 101 can be used in Freestyle Moto X and other extreme
sports that could benefit from an augmented sense of feel of the control inputs and resulting
reactions based on those control inputs. A tactile apparatus 101 can deliver a tactile message
                                                          -50
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

about spatial information through a global positioning system, gyro, and/or accelerometer that
can be built into the tactile apparatus 101 and monitored by the controller 110. For example,
in Freestyle Moto X, a tactile message can augment a driver' s sense of locationin relation to
a landing point to safely maximize performance. The tactile message can be a gradient cue
with varying intensity on the driver' s torso (abdonen, chest, and/or back) relating to a
driver' s orientation relative to the ground. The gadient can increase, decrease, or change in
intensity as the driver rotates, twists, and/or spins through a trick.           The position tactile
message can either be a constant tactile cue, or communicated at certain time intervals or
reference points during the trick. The tactile apparatus 101 can utilize reference points and
location of the driver to communicate to the driver if the driver has over or under rotated,
twisted, and/or spun relative to a predetermined driver position at a particular reference point.
The tactile message can increase, decrease, or change in intensity based on any over or under
rotation, twisting, and/or spinning. The tactile message can either be a constant tactile cue, or
communicated at certain time intervals or reference points when any over or under rotation,
twisting, and/or spinning is detected.
            [0132]              As another example, a tactile message can communicate if speed of the
vehicle is above or below a certain threshold needed to perform a particular maneuver. The
tactile message can be a gradient cue with varying intensity that decreases in level or intensity
or ceases altogether when the speed is between a minimum and maximum threshold needed
for a particular maneuver. The tactile message can also increase in level and/or intensity to a
certain point at which the driver knows that the speed is optimum to perform a particular
maneuver. The tactile message can be activation of a particular activator 116 at which point
alerting the driver that optimum speed is being achieved.
            [0133]              A tactile apparatus can be used in speed performance sports without
vehicles such as downhill skiing. A tactile apparatus can be utilized with a global positioning
system to communicate a tactile message about time gain or loss from reference laps, time
gain or loss from reference points on a racecourse. The auxiliary information monitored by
the controller 110 can include momentum and speed. A tactile message can communicate in
real time to a user the effects of, for example, a downhill ski technique on the momentum
and/or speed. A slow entry to a gate that results in greater exit speed over a longer distance
                                                        -51
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

would be immediately reinforced to a user through a tactile message such as a gradient cue
with varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) relating to the real time
momentum and/or speed-the greater the momentum and/or speed, the greater the gradient
and/or intensity. A tactile message can also communicate threshold information, such as an
activator 116 associated with momentum and/or speed is above a certain threshold, letting the
athlete know that optimum speed was or is being achieved.                  The immediate feedback can
allow an athlete to identify a superior technique as soon as it is used.
            [0134]              A tactile message can communicate if speed of the athlete is above or
below a certain threshold needed to perform a particular maneuver. The tactile message can
be a gradient cue with varying intensity that decreases in level or intensity or ceases
altogether when the speed is between a minimum and maximum threshold needed for a
particular maneuver.                The tactile message can also increase in level and/or intensity to a
certain point at which the athlete knows that the speed is optimum to perform a particular
maneuver. The tactile message can be activation of a particular activator 116 at which point
alerting the athlete that optimum speed is being achieved.
            [0135]              In other embodiments, a tactile apparatus can be utilized in non-motor
vehicles such as locomotives to communicate a tactile message about reference points, power
use, fuel consumption, wheel speed as determined by wheel rotation, wheel spin relative to
other wheels, wheel slip, revolution per minute of the engine, brake line pressure, transitional
input ramps, vehicle weight distribution, and vehicle momentum as described herein. As an
example, a tactile system may receive locomotive location data that is monitored by a
controller 110. Based on the locomotive location, a locomotive operator can be reminded by
a tactile message to sound a locomotive horn at various positions on the track, such as at
grade crossings. A tactile message can be activation of a particular activator 116 correlated
with the locomotive horn, letting the operator know it is time to sound the horn.                   The
activator 116 can also remain activated for the duration of needing to sound the horn.
Alternatively, the activator 116 may vibrate again when it is time to deactivate the horn after
the first vibration letting the operator know when to activate the horn.
            [0136]              The tactile system can also use reference point data monitored by the
controller 110 to communicate to the operator if the train is traveling at an optimum speed
                                                        -52
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

based on an approaching corner. For example, the operator can receive a gradient cue with
varying intensity on their torso (abdomen, chest, and/or back) which increases in level or
intensity based on how much the speed of the locomotive is outside an optimum range for a
particular approaching corner. If the speed is too high, the tactile message may increase in
gradient level and/or intensity moving up the operator' s torso (abdomen 6 chest). If the
speed is too low, the tactile message may increase in gradient level and/or intensity moving
down the operator' s torso (chest to abdomen).
Terminology
            [0137]              Conditional language used herein, such as, among others, "can," "might,"
"may," "e.g.," and the like, unless specifically stated otherwise, or otherwise understood
within the context as used, is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include,
while other embodiments do not include, certain features, elements and/or states. Thus, such
conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features, elements and/or states
are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments
necessarily include logic for deciding, with or without author input or prompting, whether
these features, elements and/or states are included or are to be performed in any particular
embodiment.
            [0138]              Depending on the embodiment, certain acts, events, or functions of any of
the algorithms described herein can be performed in a different sequence, can be added,
merged, or left out altogether (e.g., not all described acts or events are necessary for the
practice of the algorithms).                Moreover, in certain embodiments, acts or events can be
performed concurrently, e.g., through multi-threaded processing, interrupt processing, or
multiple processors or processor cores or on other parallel architectures, rather than
sequentially.
            [0139]              Although these inventions have been disclosed in the context of certain
preferred embodiments and examples, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the
present inventions extend beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative
embodiments and/or uses of the inventions and obvious modifications and equivalents
thereof.          In addition, while several variations of the inventions have been shown and
                                                        -53
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

described in detail, other modifications, which are within the scope of these inventions, will
be readily apparent to those of skill in the art based upon this disclosure.               It is also
contemplated that various combination or sub-combinations of the specific features and
aspects of the embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the inventions. It
should be understood that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be
combined with or substituted for one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed
inventions.           Thus, it is intended that the scope of at least some of the present inventions
herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described
above.
            [0140]              In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used
in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                       -54
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.         A system for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising:
            a tactile stimulation device capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and
            a controller that controls the tactile stimulation device to communicate performance
related information to the driver during movement of a racecar, the controller configured to
receive vehicle information, including vehicle information collected by vehicle sensors of the
racecar, and configured to use the vehicle information to select a tactile message to
communicate to the driver via the tactile stimulation device, the tactile message including a
stimulation pattern that notifies the driver of an optimum timing for performing a driver
action corresponding to controlling the racecar.
2.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the driver action is at least one of a braking
action, a vehicle acceleration action, a gear shift action, or a steering action.
3.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optimum timing is based at least partly
on a weight of the racecar distributed on a particular wheel of the racecar.
4.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optimum timing is based at least partly
on an optimum tire slip relative to a surface of travel of a tire of the racecar on a racetrack.
5.          A system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the optimum tire slip is based at least partly
on spin of the tire relative to the surface of travel on the racetrack.
6.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the stimulation pattern notifies the driver of
a transitional input ramp associated with steering the racecar to achieve the optimum timing.
7.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to:
            calculate the optimum timing based at least partly on the vehicle information
collected by the vehicle sensors;
            compare the optimum timing to an actual time of the driver action; and
                                                    -55
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

            determine whether to output the stimulation pattern based on a result of the
comparison.
8.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine the
optimum timing at least by comparing a vehicle location to a predetermined location on a
racetrack.
9.          A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optimum timing corresponds to a
maximum of at least one of acceleration, deceleration, or cornering of the racecar.
 10.        A system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the maximum of at least one of acceleration,
deceleration, or cornering for the racecar is based at least partly on a reference location on a
racetrack.
 11.        A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a user interface for selecting a
type of tactile messages conveyed to the driver.
 12.        A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to adaptively
modify a selection of tactile messages conveyed to the driver based on performance data
collected by the controller.
 13.        A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to prioritize
messages for tactile delivery to the driver based at least partly on message type.
 14.        A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an other tactile stimulation device
capable of communicating tactile signals to a person, wherein an other controller associated
with the other tactile stimulation device is configured to select a tactile message to convey to
the person, the tactile message including the stimulation pattern that notifies the person of the
optimum timing for performing the driver action corresponding to controlling the racecar.
 15.        A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the optimum timing for performing the
driver action is based at least partly on at least one of a position or a change in position of a
                                                 -56
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

nearby racecar, and wherein the controller is further configured to receive information related
to the nearby racecar based at least partly on data received from the vehicle sensors, the
vehicle sensors configured to detect the position and the change in position of the nearby
racecar during movement of the racecar, based at least partly on data received from a Global
Positioning System (GPS) configured to track the position and the change in position of the
nearby racecar, or based at least partly on both data from the vehicle sensors and the data
from the GPS.
 16.        A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of a vest, a belt, a headband, an
armband, a wristband, a forearm band, a thigh band, a steering wheel, a steering wheel
paddle, a brake pedal, an accelerator pedal, or a driver seat comprises the tactile stimulation
device.
 17.        A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tactile stimulation device comprises at
least one of a vest, a belt, a headband, an armband, a wristband, a forearm band, a thigh band,
a steering wheel, a steering wheel paddle, a brake pedal, an accelerator pedal, or a driver seat.
 18.        A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a tactile apparatus having at least
a portion in physical contact with the driver, the tactile apparatus comprising a plurality of
tactile stimulation devices capable of communicating tactile signals to the driver, the plurality
of tactile stimulation devices including the tactile stimulation device.
 19.        A system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of tactile stimulation
devices that include the tactile stimulation device, the plurality of tactile stimulation devices
capable of communicating the stimulation pattern to the driver.
20.         A system for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising:
            a tactile stimulation device capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and
            a controller that controls the tactile stimulation device to communicate performance
related information to the driver during movement of a racecar, the controller configured to
receive vehicle information, including vehicle information collected by vehicle sensors of the
racecar, and configured to use the vehicle information to select a tactile message to
                                                    -57
9997062_1(GHMatter) P98525.AU.3

communicate to the driver via the tactile stimulation device, the tactile message including a
stimulation pattern that notifies the driver of an optimum wheel slip of a wheel of the racecar
for performing a driver action corresponding to controlling the racecar, wherein the optimum
wheel slip is relative to a surface of travel for the racecar.
21.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the optimum wheel slip is based at least
partly on a weight of the racecar distributed on a particular wheel of the racecar.
22.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the optimum wheel slip is based at least
partly on spin of a tire of the wheel relative to the surface of travel.
23.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the stimulation pattern notifies the driver of
a transitional input ramp associated with steering the racecar to achieve the optimum wheel
slip.
24.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the optimum wheel slip corresponds to a
maximum of at least one of acceleration, deceleration, or cornering of the racecar.
25.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the controller is further configured to:
            detect an actual wheel slip of the wheel of the racecar relative to the surface of travel
for the racecar;
            determine the optimum wheel slip of the wheel based at least partly on collected
sensor data;
            compare the actual wheel slip to the optimum wheel slip; and
            determine whether to communicate to the driver the tactile message based at least
partly on a result of the comparison of the actual wheel slip to the optimum wheel slip.
26.         A system as claimed in claim 20, further comprising an other tactile stimulation
device capable of communicating tactile signals to a person, wherein an other controller
associated with the other tactile stimulation device is configured to convey to the person the
tactile message including the stimulation pattern that notifies the person of the optimum
wheel slip for performing the driver action corresponding to controlling the racecar.
                                                  -58
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

27.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the tactile stimulation device comprises at
least one of a vest, a belt, a headband, an armband, a wristband, a forearm band, a thigh band,
a steering wheel, a steering wheel paddle, a brake pedal, an accelerator pedal, or a driver seat.
28.         A system as claimed in claim 20, further comprising a plurality of tactile stimulation
devices that include the tactile stimulation device, the plurality of tactile stimulation devices
capable of communicating the stimulation pattern to the driver.
29.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the optimum wheel slip is based at least
partly on rotation of the wheel being slower relative to a speed of travel over the surface of
travel of the racecar.
30.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the controller is further configured to
determine the optimum wheel slip to maximize grip of a tire of the wheel on the surface of
travel.
31.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the controller is further configured to
determine an optimum steering angle based at least partly on the optimum wheel slip to
maximize grip of a tire of the wheel on the surface of travel.
32.         A system as claimed in claim 20, wherein the controller is further configured to
determine the optimum wheel slip based at least partly on spin of the wheel relative to other
wheels of the racecar.
33.         A system for improving racecar driver performance, the system comprising:
            a tactile stimulation device capable of communicating tactile signals to a driver; and
            a controller that controls the tactile stimulation device to communicate performance
related information to the driver during movement of a racecar, the controller configured to
receive vehicle information, and configured to use the vehicle information to communicate to
                                                    -59
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

the driver a tactile message that notifies the driver of an optimum timing for performing a
driver action corresponding to controlling the racecar.
                                              -60
9997062_1(GHMattem) P98525.AU.3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
