                                           ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a legal tender and bill of exchange dispensing and depositing
apparatus enclosure comprising a housing configured to be arranged within a hole defined in
a wall and affixed to the wall, the housing defining an internal volume dimensioned to at least
partially receive the apparatus, and the housing defining an aperture arranged, in use, to
allow access to the apparatus. A closure member is slidably arranged relative to the housing,
the closure member being configured to move between a closed position whereby the
aperture is occluded, and an open position whereby the aperture is uncovered, and wherein
in both positions the closure member is arranged within the internal volume. The enclosure
also includes a locking mechanism configured to secure the closure member to the housing in
at least the closed position thereby locking the closure member.

           zoz
                        7t7
               Figure 5
                                 2
toFu(g
  Figure 6                  Figure 7

                                              1
      "A legal tender and bill of exchange dispensing and depositing apparatus
                                        enclosure "
Technical Field
[0001]    The present disclosure relates to enclosures for legal tender and bill of
exchange dispensing and depositing apparatus, such as is commonly used in bank
branches by customers depositing and withdrawing funds. Such apparatus include coin
depositing machines, float dispensing machines, cash/cheque depositing machines, and
automated teller machines.
Background
[0002]    Apparatus for dispensing and/or depositing legal tender and/or bills of
exchange are located in various environments such as within bank branches, service
stations, and convenience stores. It is commonplace for such apparatus to be securely
installed within premises to prevent damage to the apparatus and decrease the
likelihood of theft of tender. However installing these apparatus within premises
occupies potentially commercially valuable floor space. This type of installation can
also prove inconvenient for customers seeking access to the apparatus outside of the
premises opening hours.
[0003]    Alternatively, such apparatus may be installed within a hole defined in an
external wall of the premises, commonly referred to as a "through-the-wall"
installation. This provides access to the apparatus for customers at any time of day
however means that the apparatus is exposed to potential damage, such as can be
caused by weather or vandalism.
[0004]    Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like
which has been included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission
that any or all of these matters form part of the common general knowledge in the field

                                              2
relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of
this application.
Summary
[0005]    According to some embodiments disclosed in this specification, there is
provided a legal tender and bill of exchange dispensing and depositing apparatus
enclosure comprising a housing configured to be arranged within a hole defined in a
wall and affixed to the wall, the housing defining an internal volume dimensioned to at
least partially receive the apparatus, and the housing defining an aperture arranged, in
use, to allow access to the apparatus. A closure member is slidably arranged relative to
the housing, the closure member being configured to move between a closed position
whereby the aperture is occluded, and an open position whereby the aperture is
uncovered, and wherein in both positions the closure member is arranged within the
internal volume. The enclosure also includes a locking mechanism configured to secure
the closure member to the housing in at least the closed position thereby locking the
closure member.
[0006]    The aperture may define a pair of opposed sides and the housing further
include a channel-defining member arranged at each of the sides, and wherein the
closure member is slidably engageable with both channel defining members. Also, the
closure member may comprise a plurality of linked sections, each section dimensioned
to extend between the channel defining members. Furthermore, the channel defining
members may extend within the housing above the aperture and to a rear portion of the
housing to provide a storage region to store the closure member in the open position.
[0007]    The locking mechanism may include at least one bar connected to the closure
member and configured to move from a locked position to an unlocked position, and
wherein the housing further defines at least one opening dimensioned to receive a
portion of the at least one bar when arranged in the locked position.

                                             3
[0008]    The locking mechanism may include a pair of oppositely extending bars
coupled to a rotatable cam, and wherein rotating the cam moves each bar between the
locked position and the unlocked position. The cam may be connected to a lock barrel
arranged at one side of the closure member, and wherein rotation of the cam is actuated
by inserting an authorised key into the lock barrel and rotating the key. Also, the
closure member may define opposed sides and further includes a guide arranged at each
of the sides, each guide configured to guide movement of the respective bar. In this
embodiment, each bar may be slidably engaged with the respective guide.
[0009]    The housing may also include a flange extending from a peripheral region and
which is configured to be affixed to the wall.
[0010]    Throughout this specification reference is made to legal tender. This will be
appreciated to include banknotes (paper currency) and coins within its scope. Further
reference is also made to bills of exchange, being a type of negotiable instrument. This
will be appreciated to include cheques and promissory notes, such as personal cheques
and bank cheques, within its scope.
[0011]    Throughout this specification the words "comprise", "include" and "have",
and variations such as "comprises", "comprising", "includes", "including", "has" and
"having", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element,
integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0012]    Embodiments of the disclosure are now described by way of example with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0013]    Figure 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a legal tender and bill of
exchange dispensing and depositing apparatus enclosure in a first configuration where a
closure member is arranged in an open position;

                                              4
[0014]    Figure 2 is a top view of the enclosure as shown in Figure 1;
[0015]    Figure 3 is a front view of the enclosure as shown in Figures 1 and 2;
[0016]    Figure 4 is a side view of the enclosure as shown in the previous figures;
[0017]    Figure 5 is a perspective view of the enclosure in a second configuration
where the closure member is arranged in a closed position;
[0018]    Figure 6 is a cross-sectional top view of the enclosure as shown in Figure 5;
[0019]    Figure 7 is a detailed view of the part of Figure 6 encircled by Circle D;
[0020]    Figure 8 is a front view of the enclosure as shown in Figures 5 to 7;
[0021]    Figure 9 is a detailed view of the part of Figure 8 encircled by Circle E;
[0022]    Figure 10 is a rear view of the enclosure as shown in Figures 5 to 9;
[0023]    Figure 11 is a detailed view of the part of Figure 10 encircled by Circle B; and
[0024]    Figure 12 is a detailed view of the part of Figure 10 encircled by Circle A.
[0025]    In the drawings, like reference numerals designate similar parts.
Description of Embodiments
[0026]    In the drawings reference numerI0 generally designates an embodiment of a
legal tender and bill of exchange dispensing and depositing apparatus enclosure 10.
The enclosure 10 includes a housing 12 configured to be arranged within a hole defined
in a wall and affixed to the wall. The housing 12 defines an internal volume 14
dimensioned to at least partially receive the apparatus, and also defines an aperture 16
arranged, in use, to allow access to the apparatus. The enclosure 10 includes a closure
member 18 which is slidably arranged relative to the housing 12. The closure member
18 is configured to move between a closed position whereby the aperture 16 is
occluded, and an open position whereby the aperture 16 is uncovered, and in both
positions the closure member 18 is arranged within the internal volume 14 of the
housing 12. The enclosure 10 also includes a locking mechanism 20 (shown most
clearly in Figure 9 of the drawings) configured to secure the closure member 18 to the
housing 12 in at least the closed position thereby locking the closure member 18.

                                              5
[0027]    In Figures 1 to 4, the enclosure 10 is shown in a first configuration where the
closure member 18 is arranged in the open position and concealed within the internal
volume 14 of the housing 12.
[0028]    The housing 12 is shaped and dimensioned to at least partially receive one of a
range of different dispensing and/or depositing apparatus. The embodiment shown in
the figures is configured to house a coin-deposit machine. The illustrated housing 12
embodiment includes panels 22 arranged to enclose a part of a front, sides, top and a
rear of the apparatus. The housing 12 is configured in this way to allow the apparatus
to extend outside of the enclosure 10, for example, to provide access to the rear of the
apparatus from within premises to which the apparatus is installed, and also allow
communication of cables/wiring to the apparatus. The type of apparatus which the
housing 12 is configured to enclose may also determine other features of the housing
12, such as defining a dispensing aperture 24 through which items and/or a receipt are
able to be dispensed. A cable aperture 25 defined in one of the side panels 22 is
dimensioned to allow a cable to pass through the housing 12 to connect to the
apparatus.
[0029]    The aperture 16 is defined in a front of the housing 12 to provide access to the
apparatus arranged within the internal volume 14 of the housing 12 when the closure
member 18 is in its open position. In the embodiment shown, the aperture 16 defines a
pair of opposed sides 26, 28. A channel defining member 30, 32, is attached to, or
otherwise formed at, and inwardly of, each of the sides 26, 28. The channel defining
members 30, 32 are arranged to guide the closure member 18 as the closure member 18
moves between the open and closed positions. Whilst the aperture 16 is shown as
defining a planar and rectilinear shape, it will be appreciated that the aperture 16,
surrounding panels 22 and channel defining members 30, 32 may be alternatively
configured to define other forms, for example, to fit to a curved wall.
[0030]    A flange 34 is arranged extending from a peripheral region of a front of the
housing 12. The flange 34 is configured to be affixed to the wall thereby securely
installing the enclosure 10 to the premises. The flange 34 is arranged extending around

                                              6
the entire peripheral region and away from adjacent panels 22 to substantially prevent
access to the panels 22 when the housing 12 is affixed within the hole in the wall. The
flange 34 is affixed to the wall by a plurality of brackets (not shown) secured to the
panels 22 of the housing 12 being arranged against and affixed to an inside surface of
the wall, thereby urging the flange 34 in a clamping arrangement with the other side of
the wall. The brackets are typically configured as L-shaped brackets which extend at
right angles to each side panel 22 and top panel 22 of the housing 12, and are mounted
to the inside surface of the wall using fasteners.
[0031]    The housing 12 is typically fabricated from sheet metal, whereby the panels 22
are secured to each other with fasteners, such as bolts. Alternatively, at least the flange
34 may be produced from one or more plastic mouldings to enable more complex
geometry housings 12.
[0032]    In Figures 5 to 12, the enclosure 10 is shown in a second configuration where
the closure member 18 is arranged in the closed position.
[0033]    The closure member 18 includes a plurality of linked sections, or slats, 36.
Each section 36 is typically pivotally connected to adjacent sections 36 thereby forming
a shutter or panel which is able to be rolled or otherwise stowed in a compact,
unobtrusive form when the closure member 18 is in its open position. Each section 36
defines a longitudinal length which is dimensioned to extend between the channel
defining members 30, 32. An end of each section 36 is also configured to be slidably
received within a channel of the associated channel defining member 30, 32. As best
shown in Figures 6 and 7, the slidable arrangement between the sections 36 and the
channel defining members 30, 32 is provided by a notch 39 defined in a front surface of
each section 36 slidably engaging an internal flange 35 defined by the housing 12.
Sliding each notch 39 along the internal flange 35 carries the closure member 18 when
moving between its closed position and open position.
[0034]    Returning to Figure 4, the channel defining members 30, 32 are shown
delineated in dashed lines extending into a top section of the housing 12 above the

                                             7
aperture 16, curving around an internal front and rear edge defined by the housing 12
and extending partially along a rear of the housing 12 into a pocket 37 formed at the
rear of the housing 12. The channel defining members 30, 32 and pocket 37 therefore
provide a storage region which the closure member 18 is moved into when arranged in
its open position. A latch mechanism (not illustrated) is connected to the pocket 37 to
allow the closure member 18 to be retained in the pocket 37 in its open position.
Whilst the channel defining members 30, 32 are shown extending from the opposed
sides 26, 28 of the aperture 16 towards the pocket 37 it will be appreciated that these
may be discontinuous and therefore also comprise additional channel defining members
to effectively define a continuous track along the sides 26, 28 and to the pocket 37.
[0035]    Figures 6 to 12 show features of the locking mechanism 20 in more detail.
The locking mechanism 20 includes at least one bar which is connected to the closure
member 16 and configured to move from a locked position to an unlocked position.
The housing 12 also defines at least one opening 38 dimensioned to receive a portion of
the at least one bar when arranged in the locked position. When the at least one bar is
arranged in the locked position the closure member 18 is locked which substantially
prevents the closure member 18 from moving relative to the housing 12.
[0036]    In the embodiment shown, the locking mechanism 20 includes a pair of
oppositely extending bars 40 coupled to a rotatable cam 42. Rotating the cam 40
causes each bar 38 to move between the locked position and the unlocked position. A
pair of the openings 38 are arranged at a bottom region of the aperture 16 to allow the
closure member 18 to be locked in the closed position. It will be appreciated that
another pair of openings 38 may be arranged at an upper region of the aperture 16, or
another appropriate location, to allow the closure member 18 to be locked in the open
position, or another position.
[0037]    The closure member 18 is connected to a lock barrel 44 which is accessible
from an external (wall) side of the closure member 18. Rotation of the cam 42 is
actuated by inserting an authorised key (not shown) into the lock barrel 44 and rotating
the key.

                                              8
[0038]    Best shown in Figure 11 is a guide 46 arranged adjacent each side of the
closure member 18, the guides 46being configured to guide movement of the bars 40
between the locked and unlocked positions. In the embodiment shown, each bar 40 is
slidably engaged with one of the guides 46.
[0039]    The enclosure 10 is typically installed into a hole defined in an external wall
of premises (not illustrated). This generally involves arranging the apparatus close to
the hole from inside the premises, fitting the enclosure 10 through the hole from outside
the premises, arranging the enclosure 10 around the apparatus, and then securing the
enclosure 10 to the wall by engaging the brackets with studs or fasteners mounted to
the wall. This may also involve sealing the flange 34 to the wall to substantially
prevent dust and/or moisture ingress into the hole.
[0040] Use of the enclosure 10 involves moving the closure member 18 from the
closed to the open position in order to access and operate the apparatus. The closure
member 18 is arranged and locked in the closed position during specified hours of the
day, for example, overnight, to prevent access to the apparatus. When access to the
apparatus is required, a user inserts the authorised key into the lock barrel 44, and
rotates the key to operate the locking mechanism 20. This causes the bars 40 to move
to the unlocked position and allows the closure member 18 to move relative to the
housing 12. The user then slides the closure member 18 towards a top edge of the
aperture 16 causing the linked sections 36 to slide along the channel defining members
30, 32 inside the housing 12 and into the pocket 37, storing the closure member 18
within the internal volume 14 defined by the housing 12. Moving the closure member
18 in this way progressively reveals the aperture 16 and then allows the user to access
the apparatus. When the closure member 18 is fully opened, it engages the latch
mechanism to retain the closure member 18 in its open position.
[0041]    The enclosure 10 is useful in many scenarios where damage could occur to the
housed apparatus due to climatic conditions and/or user interaction as the closure
member 18 can be readily deployed and locked to substantially prevent dust, moisture
and persons accessing the apparatus.

                                             9
[0042]    The enclosure 10 is also useful where space for installation of the apparatus
and enclosure is limited, as the housing 12 is configurable to closely fit around the
apparatus and arrange the closure member 18 within the internal volume 14 defined by
the housing 12, regardless of whether the closure member 18 is in the open position or
closed position. This therefore provides a compact enclosure 10 solution which is
compatible with and easy to install in a "through-the-wall" type installation.
[0043]    It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
and/or modifications may be made to the above-described embodiments, without
departing from the broad general scope of the present disclosure. The present
embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not
restrictive.

                                             10
CLAIMS:
1.        A legal tender and bill of exchange dispensing and depositing apparatus
enclosure comprising:
          a housing configured to be arranged within a hole defined in a wall and affixed
to the wall, the housing defining an internal volume dimensioned to at least partially
receive the apparatus, and the housing defining an aperture arranged, in use, to allow
access to the apparatus;
          a closure member slidably arranged relative to the housing, the closure
member configured to move between a closed position whereby the aperture is
occluded, and an open position whereby the aperture is uncovered, and wherein in both
positions the closure member is arranged within the internal volume; and
          a locking mechanism configured to secure the closure member to the housing
in at least the closed position thereby locking the closure member.
2.        The enclosure of claim 1, wherein the aperture defines a pair of opposed sides
and the housing further includes a channel-defining member arranged at each of the
sides, and wherein the closure member is slidably engageable with both channel
defining members.
3.        The enclosure of claim 2, wherein the closure member comprises a plurality of
linked sections, each section dimensioned to extend between the channel defining
members.
4.        The enclosure of claim 3, wherein the channel defining members extend
within the housing above the aperture and to a rear portion of the housing to provide a
storage region to store the closure member in the open position.
5.        The enclosure of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the locking
mechanism includes at least one bar connected to the closure member and configured to
move from a locked position to an unlocked position, and wherein the housing further

                                            11
defines at least one opening dimensioned to receive a portion of the at least one bar
when arranged in the locked position.
6.        The enclosure of claim 5, wherein the locking mechanism includes a pair of
oppositely extending bars coupled to a rotatable cam, and wherein rotating the cam
moves each bar between the locked position and the unlocked position.
7.        The enclosure of claim 6, wherein the cam is connected to a lock barrel
arranged at one side of the closure member, and wherein rotation of the cam is actuated
by inserting an authorised key into the lock barrel and rotating the key.
8.        The enclosure of claim 6 or 7, wherein the closure member defines opposed
sides and further includes a guide arranged at each of the sides, each guide configured
to guide movement of the respective bar.
9.        The enclosure of claim 8, wherein each bar is slidably engaged with the
respective guide.
10.       The enclosure of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the housing further
includes a flange extending from a peripheral region, the flange configured to be
affixed to the wall.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/5

