                                            1
                                      ABSTRACT
        Disclosed are prosthetic mitral valves as well as methods and devices suitable
for deploying prosthetic mitral valves.

                                                  I
                                 PROSTHETIC MITRAL VALVE
   RELATED APPLICATION
           This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC § 119(e) of U.S.
   Provisional Patent Application No. 61/649,319 filed May 20, 2012, the contents of
 5 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
   FIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to the field of cardiac surgery, and more
   particularly to the field of prosthetic mitral valves.
           The human heart is a muscular organ that pumps deoxygenated blood through
10 the lungs to oxygenate the blood and pumps oxygenated blood to the rest of the body by
   rhythmic contractions of four chambers.
           After having circulated in the body, deoxygenated blood from the body enters
   right atrium through the vena cava. The right atrium contracts, pumping the blood
   through a tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. The right ventricle contracts, pumping
15 the blood through a pulmonary semi-lunar valve into the pulmonary artery which splits
   to two branches, one for each lung. The blood is oxygenated while passing through the
   lungs, and reenters the heart via the left atrium. The left atrium contracts, pumping the
   oxygenated blood through the mitral valve into the left ventricle. The left ventricle
   contracts, pumping the oxygenated blood through the aortic valve into the aorta to be
20 distributed to the rest of the body. The mitral valve closes during left ventricle
   contraction, so that blood is prevented from backflow.
           In the mitral valve, an approximately circular mitral annulus defines a mitral
   valve orifice. Attached to the periphery of the mitral annulus are an anterior leaflet and
   a smaller posterior leaflet. The leaflets are connected to papillary muscles at the bottom
25 of left ventricle by chords. The typical area of the mitral lumen in a healthy adult is
   between 4 and 6 cm 2 , while the typical total surface area of leaflets is significantly
   larger, approximately 12 cm 2.
           During diastole (for example, atrial systole), the left atrium contracts to pump
   blood into the left ventricle through the mitral valve orifice. The blood flows through

                                                  2
   the orifice, pushing the leaflets apart and into the left ventricle with little resistance. The
   leaflets of the aortic valve are kept closed by blood pressure in the aorta.
            During ventricular systole, the left ventricle contracts to pump blood into the
   aorta through the aortic valve, the leaflets of which are pushed open by the blood flow
 5 with relatively little resistance. The mitral annulus contracts, pushing the leaflets
   inwards and reducing the area of the mitral valve orifice by about 20% to 30%. The
   papillary muscles contract, maintaining the tension of the chords and pulling the edges
   of the leaflets, preventing prolapse of the leaflets into the left atrium. The leaflets are
   curved into the left ventricle and coapt to accommodate the excess leaflet surface area,
10 producing a coaptation surface that constitutes a seal. The typical height of the
   coaptation surface in a healthy heart of an adult is approximately 7-8 mm. The pressure
   of blood in the left ventricle pushes against the ventricular surfaces of the leaflets,
   tightly pressing the leaflets together at the coaptation surface so that a tight, leak-proof
   seal is formed.
15          An effective seal of the mitral valve during ventricular systole depends on a
   sufficient degree of coaptation, in terms of length, area and continuity of coaptation
   surface. If coaptation surface is insufficient or non-existent, there is mitral valve
   insufficiency; that is, regurgitation of blood from the left ventricle into the left atrium
   during ventricular systole. A lack of sufficient coaptation may be caused by any number
20 of physical anomalies that allow leaflet prolapse (for example, elongated or ruptured
   chords, or weak papillary muscles) or prevent coaptation (for example, short chords, or
   small leaflets). There are also pathologies that lead to a mitral valve insufficiency,
   including collagen vascular disease, ischemic mitral regurgitation (resulting, for
   example, from myocardial infarction, chronic heart failure, or failed/unsuccessful
25 surgical or catheter revascularization), myxomatous degeneration of the leaflets, and
   rheumatic heart disease. Mitral valve insufficiency leads to many complications
   including arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, cardiac palpitations, chest pain, congestive heart
   failure, fainting, fatigue, low cardiac output, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea,
   pulmonary edema, shortness of breath, and sudden death.
30          Apart from humans, mammals that suffer from mitral valve insufficiency
   include horses, cats, dogs, cows, sheep and pigs.

                                                  3
            It is known to use open-heart surgical methods to treat mitral insufficiency, for
   example by modifying the subvalvular apparatus              (for example, lengthening or
   shortening chords) to improve leaflet coaptation, or by implanting an annuloplasty ring
   to force the mitral valve annulus into a normal shape.
 5          Aortic valves are known to suffer from aortic insufficiency or aortic stenosis. It
   is known to deploy a prosthetic aortic valve using minimally invasive surgery to replace
   a malfunctioning native aortic valve. Typically, an expandable frame (for example, a
   stent or a ring) supporting artificial aortic leaflets is positioned inside the orifice of an
   aortic valve, typically endovascularly with a catheter passing through the aorta, but also
10 transapically through a hole near the apex of the heart, passing into the left ventricle.
   The frame is expanded across the aortic annulus, folding and overlying the native aortic
   valve leaflets, and maintaining the prosthetic aortic valve in place by exertion of an
   axial force and by adopting an "hourglass" shape that distributes axial forces on the
   native aortic valve annulus and the surrounding tissue. Commercially available
15 prosthetic aortic valves include the LotusTm by Sadra Medical (Campbell, California,
   USA) and the CoreValveTM by Medtronic (Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA).
            A challenge to deployment of a prosthetic mitral valve, analogous to a prosthetic
   aortic valve, is retention of the prosthesis in place during ventricular systole. Unlike the
   aortic valve annulus that constitutes a stable anchoring feature, especially when
20 calcified, the mitral valve annulus is not a sufficiently stable anchoring feature (less
   than half of the mitral valve annulus is of fibrotic tissue) and is dynamic (changing size
   and shape as the heart beats). Further, unlike the aortic valve that is open during
   ventricular systole, the mitral valve must withstand the high pressures in the left
   ventricle caused by contraction of the left ventricle during ventricular systole, pressures
25 that tend to force a mitral valve prosthesis deployed across a mitral valve annulus into
   the left atrium.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention, in some embodiments thereof, relates to prosthetic heart
   valves, and in particular to prosthetic mitral valves. Some embodiments of the invention
30 relate to methods and devices suitable for deploying prosthetic heart valves and in
   particular prosthetic mitral valves.

                                                  4
            According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a prosthetic mitral
   valve suitable to be deployed in a mammalian heart, comprising: a valve frame; a frame
   aperture defined by the valve frame, said frame aperture sized to: circumferentially
   enclose a prosthetic heart valve mechanism and fit within the mitral valve aperture
 5 between the heart left ventricle and atrium; and at least one arm attached to the valve
   frame on the ventricular side of said frame aperture; said at least one arm having a
   chord receiving surface sized and shaped to deploy among a region of chords of the
   native mitral valve and deflect the shape of chords contacted, pulling least one native
   mitral valve leaflet at least partially around said frame aperture.
10          According to some embodiments of the invention, said chord receiving surface
   defines a chord capturing region, is shaped to guide encountered chords into said
   capturing region, and is shaped to bar chords entering said capturing region from
   exiting.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said chord receiving surface
15 is oriented with respect to a rotation direction and has at least one slope that guides
   chords encountered while moving in said rotation direction into said chord capturing
   region.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said chord receiving surface
   is oriented with respect to a rotation direction and has at least one hooked portion that
20 prevents chords moving in opposition to said rotation direction from exiting said chord
   capturing region.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said at least one native mitral
   valve leaflet prevents the flow of blood between itself and said valve frame, at least in
   the direction passing from the left ventricle to the left atrium.
25          According to some embodiments of the invention, a portion of said valve frame
   on the atrial side of said frame aperture is too wide to pass through the mitral valve
   aperture.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said deflection of the shape of
   at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing force generated
30 by contact of the frame with tissue of the heart on the atrial side of said frame aperture.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said deflection of the shape of
   at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing force generated

                                                 5
   by contact of the frame with tissue of the heart on the ventricular side of said frame
   aperture.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said deflection of the shape of
   at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing force generated
 5 by contact of the frame with at least one native mitral valve leaflet.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said deflection of the shape of
   at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing force generated
   by contact of the frame with at least one other chord which it deflects the shape of.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said valve frame comprises at
10 least two metal parts secured to one another by at least one suture.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said frame is in a compact
   configuration    upon delivery to the heart, and expands         at least radially during
   deployment.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said frame at least partially in
15 a compact configuration is at least partially crimped.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said valve frame in said
   compact configuration is less than 13 mm across at its largest profile diameter.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said valve frame in said
   compact configuration comprises least two mutually unattached parts.
20          According to some embodiments of the invention, one of said at least two
   mutually unattached parts comprises said at least one arm, and another of said at least
   two mutually unattached parts defines said frame aperture when deployed.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said at least two unattached
   parts are not overlapping in said compact configuration.
25          According to some embodiments of the invention, said at least two unattached
   parts are at least partially radially concentric in the deployed configuration of said
   valve.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, one of said at least two
   partially radially concentric parts presses outwardly against the other so that the two
30 said parts are constrained from moving over one another.

                                                   6
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said at least radial expanding
   is at least partially actuated by application of a radially outwards force to an inner
   surface of said frame.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said at least radial expanding
 5 is at least partially self-actuated by said frame.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said valve mechanism is held
   within said aperture of the frame, and, when the frame is deployed, restricts fluid flow
   through the frame aperture in the direction from said ventricular side to said atrial side.
            According     to some embodiments of the invention, said valve mechanism
10 comprises at least one prosthetic valve leaflet sized and positioned to restrict said fluid
   flow.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, said valve mechanism
   becomes functional to restrict said fluid flow while at least part of said valve frame
   remains in said compact configuration.
15          According to some embodiments of the invention, said frame conforms to the
   shape of the beating heart without restricting its contractions.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, native mitral valve leaflet is
   held between at least one member of said valve frame on both the ventricular and the
   atrial side of said native mitral valve leaflet.
20          According to some embodiments of the invention, at least one deployed arm of
   said at least one arms comprises: a basal region of attachment to said valve frame; and
   an extended member arising therefrom.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, at least one deployed arm of
   said at least one arms comprises: a plurality of separated basal regions of attachment to
25 said valve frame; a plurality of extended members arising therefrom and extending
   alongside one another; said members being joined at a region distal to said basal regions
   of attachment.
            According to some embodiments of the invention, at least one deployed arm of
   said at least one arms extends radially from said valve frame in its position.
30          According to some embodiments of the invention, said deployed arm has a
   concavely rounded leading edge facing in a circumferential direction.

                                                 7
           According to some embodiments of the invention, said concavely rounded
   leading edge curves through at least 90 degrees.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, said concavely rounded
   leading edge curves through at least 180 degrees.
 5         According to some embodiments of the invention, at least one deployed arm of
   said at least one arms comprises a branch point from which at least three member
   segments lead.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, at least one of said member
   segments has a free end which projects toward the base of said deployed arm from said
10 branch point.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, said free end of said basally
   projecting member segment is within 5 mm of said branch point.
           According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a catheter deployment
   system for deploying a prosthetic mitral valve comprising: a distal end with a central
15 axis; a prosthetic mitral valve in a compact configuration disposed around said central
   axis; said prosthetic valve including at least a ventricular frame part; and a deployment
   clamp attached to the ventricular part, the deployment clamp being actuatable to induce
   rotation at least in said ventricular frame part.
           According to some embodiments of the invention,        the   catheter   deployment
20 system comprises: a rotatable shaft; and a rotation actuator, coupled to the shaft at a
   distal end; said shaft being coupled at a distal end to said deployment clamp.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, the deployment clamp
   comprises at least one prong connected at the prong end to said ventricular frame part.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, said deployment clamp
25 comprises at least one command wire in threaded contact with said ventricular frame
   part.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, withdrawal of the at least one
   command wire from contact with the ventricular frame part releases said ventricular
   frame part.
30         According to some embodiments of the invention, said deployment clamp
   comprises at least one sleeve containing at least a portion of said ventricular frame part.

                                                 8
           According to some embodiments of the invention, said deployment clamp
   comprises at least one command wire connected to said at least one sleeve; and a
   relative motion of said command wire retracts the sleeve from over said contained
   portion of said ventricular frame part releases said ventricular frame part.
 5         According to some embodiments of the invention, in the catheter deployment
   system: a coupling mechanism couples said shaft to said rotation actuator; said coupling
   mechanism comprises a catch member and a detente; said catch member being caught
   by the detente; and one of said catch member and said detente being fixedly coupled to
   the rotation actuator, and the other of said catch member and said detente being fixedly
10 coupled to said shaft.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, said catch is removed from
   capture by said detente upon said rotation actuator exerting a torque on said coupling
   mechanism which exceeds a predetermined threshold.
           According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a method of deploying
15 a prosthetic mitral heart valve in a mammalian heart comprising: inserting a distal end
   of a prosthetic mitral heart valve catheter deployment system into the left heart
   ventricle; and extending arms attached to the prosthetic mitral valve into one or more
   regions occupied by chords of the native mitral valve leaflets.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, the method further comprises
20 rotating the extended arms.
           According to some embodiments of the invention, the method further comprises
   locking the extended arms into position.
           According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a valve frame of a
   prosthetic mitral valve comprising: at least two metal parts; a suture wire; and a
25 polymer insert; said parts being sutured together by said suture wire; said suture wire
   being held off the surface of said parts by said polymer insert.
           Unless otherwise defined, all technical and/or scientific terms used herein have
   the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which
   the invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
30 described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the invention,
   exemplary methods and/or materials are described below. In case of conflict, the patent

                                                 9
   specification, including definitions, will control. In addition, the materials, methods, and
   examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be necessarily limiting.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Some embodiments of the invention are herein described, by way of example
 5 only, with reference to the accompanying drawings. With specific reference now to the
   drawings in detail, it is stressed that the particulars shown are by way of example and
   for purposes of illustrative discussion of embodiments of the invention. In this regard,
   the description taken with the drawings makes apparent to those skilled in the art how
   embodiments of the invention may be practiced.
10         In the drawings:
           FIG. 1 schematically depicts the deployment of a prosthetic mitral valve of a
   normal adult human heart, to better help understand some embodiments of the
   invention;
           FIGs. 2A-2B schematically depict prosthetic mitral valves, in accordance with
15 an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 3A-3D schematically depict prosthetic mitral valves, in accordance with
   an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 4A-4B schematically depict prosthetic mitral valves, in accordance with
   an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
20         FIGs. 5A-5B schematically depict prosthetic mitral valves, in accordance with
   an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 6A-6B schematically depict prosthetic mitral valves, in accordance with
   an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 7A-7D schematically depict prosthetic mitral valves, in accordance with
25 an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIG. 8 schematically depicts an initial step in the deployment of a prosthetic
   mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIG. 9 schematically depicts a subsequent step in the deployment of a prosthetic
   mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
30         FIG. 10 schematically depicts an expansion step in the deployment of a
   prosthetic mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;

                                                10
           FIG. 11 schematically depicts a deployed prosthetic mitral valve, in accordance
   with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIG. 12 schematically depicts a part of a catheter deployment system, in
   accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
 5         FIGs. 13A-13F are schematics of some additional embodiments of the prosthetic
   mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIG. 14 is a schematic of the prosthetic mitral valve partially deployed in the
   native mitral valve annulus in an isometric view from the left ventricle, in accordance
   with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
10         FIGs. 15A-15D are schematics of the prosthetic mitral valve partially deployed
   in the native mitral valve annulus, in an isometric view from the left atrium, in
   accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIG. 16 is a schematic of the deployed prosthetic mitral valve, in accordance
   with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
15         FIG. 17 is a photograph/schematic of a deployed ventricular part of a prosthetic
   mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 18A-18B are schematic illustrations of an exemplary deployed ventricular
   part of a prosthetic mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention;
20         FIG. 19 is a schematic perspective illustration of portion of an exemplary
   catheter deployment system having a rotation component in functional association with
   a prosthetic mitral valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention;
           FIG. 20 is a schematic perspective illustration of an exemplary prong of a fork
25 which is part of catheter deployment system, in accordance with an exemplary
   embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 21A-21B are schematic perspective illustrations of an exemplary prong of
   a fork, which is part of a catheter deployment system, in accordance with an exemplary
   embodiment of the invention;
30         FIGs. 22A-22C are schematic perspective views showing exemplary barbed
   projections acting as attachment elements for the ventricular part and atrial part of a
   prosthetic atrial valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;

                                                 11
           FIGs. 23A-23D       are schematic     sectional views   showing a tissue safety
   mechanism comprised in a rotation component, in accordance with an exemplary
   embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 24A-24B are schematic perspective views showing a spring adaptor
 5 section portion of an atrial part, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention;
           FIGs. 25A-25B are schematic perspective views of an atrial part inserted into a
   ventricular part, with the atrial part prevented from rising distally out of the ventricular
   part by a spur member, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
10         FIGs. 26A-26D are schematic perspective views of a protective insert provided
   for use with ventricular part attachment structure and atrial part attachment structure, in
   accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 27A-27C are schematic perspective views of a screw and nut provided for
   use in attaching a ventricular part attachment structure to an atrial part attachment
15 structure, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 28A-28C are schematic perspective views of a ventricular part attachment
   structure and a atrial part attachment structure, suitable for attachment by suturing, in
   accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 29A-29B are schematic perspective view of prosthetic mitral valves, in
20 accordance with exemplary embodiments of the invention;
           FIGs. 30A-30E schematically illustrate the deployment of a prosthetic mitral
   valve, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention;
           FIGs. 31A-311 schematically illustrate the recruitment of native mitral valve
   chords for prosthetic mitral valve frame fixation, in accordance with an exemplary
25 embodiment of the invention; and
           FIG. 32 is a flowchart giving a sequence of steps for prosthetic mitral valve
   implantation, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
   DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention, in some embodiments thereof, relates to prosthetic heart
30 valves, and in particular to prosthetic mitral valves. Some embodiments of the invention

                                                12
   relate to methods and devices suitable for deploying prosthetic heart valves and in
   particular prosthetic mitral valves.
           The principles, uses and implementations of the teachings of the invention may
   be better understood with reference to the accompanying description and figures. Upon
 5 perusal of the description and figures present herein, one skilled in the art is able to
   implement the teachings of the invention without undue effort or experimentation.
     OVERVIEW
           An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to the fixation
   and functional deployment of a prosthetic mitral valve within a functioning heart using
10 tension applied to the chords of the mitral valve to recruit native valve leaflets into the
   fixating mechanism and/or functional characteristics of the valve.
           In some embodiments of the invention, the chords and/or leaflets of the native
   mitral valve are pulled into and maintained under tension by capturing arms of the
   prosthetic mitral valve frame. In some embodiments, arms are structures, attached to the
15 frame, which engage the native mitral valve chords and recruit them to a role in fixation
   of the prosthetic mitral valve. In some embodiments, arms are elongated structures
   deployed inside the ventricle. In some embodiments, arms are basally attached to
   portions of frame, and protrude outward from a core region of the frame to regions
   where they encounter the chords of the native mitral valve. In some embodiments,
20 tensioning of the chords is at least in part by their displacement and/or by deflection of
   their shape as arms extend to within regions traversed by the chords.
           In some embodiments, tensioning of the chords involves rotation of the arms
   with respect to the ventricle during frame deployment, by which chords encountered by
   the arms are captured (grasped). In some embodiments, tensioning of the chords
25 shortens the distance between their attachment points by, for example, 2 mm, 5 mm, 10
   mm, 15 mm, or another distance in between. In some embodiments, the percentage of
   chords captured is 10%, 20%, 40%, 80%, or 100%. In some embodiments, the
   independent percentage of chords captured in one or more of the primary, secondary,
   and tertiary chordae is 10%, 20%, 40%, 80%, or 100%.
30         In some embodiments of the invention, the movement of and/or development of
   tension in captured chords is assisted by protrusions on the arms and/or structures
   associated with the arms such supporting struts and/or rims. Potentially, protrusions, for

                                                 13
   example, restrain chords to the arms under tension by preventing their free movement;
   and/or assist in positioning the chord so that it pulls the native valve leaflets into
   position for use in frame fixation.
            In some embodiments, tension on the chords is transmitted through the frame of
 5 the prosthetic mitral valve to play a role in fixation at other locations on the frame. For
   example, in some embodiments members of the frame located in the atrium are pressed
   against the atrial wall by rotational and/or tension forces transmitted through the frame
   from captured and tensioned native valve chords.
            An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to trapping
10 and/or holding the leaflets of the native mitral valve in a partially closed configuration
   around an aperture of the implanted prosthetic valve. In some embodiments, the native
   leaflets are positioned to form an at least partial seal around the aperture of the
   implanted prosthetic valve which contains the valve mechanism. In some embodiments,
   tension on the chords is used to pull the native valve leaflets into a configuration which
15 is  at least partially closed around       the prosthetic   mitral valve frame.    In some
   embodiments, the length of close of axial association of the native valve leaflets along
   the prosthetic mitral valve frame is in a range between 2 mm and 40 mm; for example, 2
   mm to 40 mm, 2 mm to 10 mm, or 5 mm to 20 mm. In some embodiments, native valve
   leaflets are maintained in a partially closed position at least in part by continued tension
20 on the chords. In some embodiments, increased tension on the chords, for example
   during contraction of the left ventricle, acts to further close the native valve leaflets
   around the prosthetic mitral valve, and in particular, the prosthetic mitral valve
   mechanism.
            In some embodiments of the invention, native valve leaflets are maintained in a
25 partially closed position at least in part by direct interactions with frame components in
   the atrial and/or ventricular compartments of the heart. In some embodiments, the
   leaflets are pressed between atrial and ventricular frame parts. In some embodiments,
   the structural members of the frame press the leaflets against one or more layers of
   material, such as a fabric, which covers at least a portion of the frame. In some
30 embodiments, the atrial and ventricular mitral valve frame parts comprise projections
   which pierce the leaflets, thereby holding them in position.

                                              14
            An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to the
   deployment of a prosthetic mitral valve, and in particular the frame of a prosthetic
   mitral valve, where at least one frame component is rotated during deployment. In some
   embodiments, the frame is inserted into the heart in a compact (for example., crimped)
 5 condition, for example, contained within a catheter deployment system. In some
   embodiments, the frame is deployed in stages, for example, a ventricular stage and an
   atrial stage.
            In some embodiments of the invention, ventricular structures comprising
   grasping arms undergo a conformational change during deployment which moves them
10 to their functional position; for example by an expansion from a central core, or by
   assuming a curvature. In some embodiments, the conformational change is in response
   to a triggering motion and/or other deployment force exerted through the catheter
   deployment system. In some embodiments, expansion is triggered by the retraction of
   an overtube which otherwise maintains the compact configuration of the ventricular
15 part.
            In some embodiments of the invention, a rotation component of the catheter
   deployment system attaches to and rotates ventricular structures of the prosthetic mitral
   valve frame, including arms. In some embodiments, rotation recruits chords into frame
   fixation. In some embodiments, the catheter deployment system is configured to
20 maintain attachment, for example, through an attachment fork, even while the
   ventricular part structures undergo expansion. In some embodiments, the rotation
   component continues to exert force to maintain the rotated position while atrial part
   expansion and deployment occurs. In some embodiments, the fork of the rotation
   component is provided with a mechanism to allow release of the frame once
25 deployment of the mitral valve frame parts reaches a particular stage of completion.
   Optionally, rotation is confined to a rotational component subsystem of the catheter
   deployment system and the prosthetic mitral valve parts affixed to it.
            An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to safe
   deployment of a prosthetic mitral valve, and in particular limitation and control of
30 rotation of a prosthetic mitral valve frame component during deployment. In some
   embodiments of the invention, a rotation control is provided with a limited range of

                                                  15
   deployment available. In some embodiments, rotation of the prosthetic mitral valve
   frame is coupled to the rotation control through a device which does not transmit more
   than a limited maximum force and/or amount of rotation to the rotating prosthetic parts.
           An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to connecting
 5 the atrial   and ventricular parts of the prosthetic       mitral valve frame. In some
   embodiments parts are connected before deployment. In some embodiments., parts
   connect with one another as a part of deployment, for example during or as a result of
   part expansion or rotation. In some embodiments, parts are connected after deployment.
   In some embodiments where parts are connected during or after a phase of deployment,
10 only a part of the prosthetic mitral valve frame rotates during deployment.
           In some embodiments of the invention, parts are connected by shapes which
   interlock. For example, in some embodiments an atrial frame part expands inside a
   ventricle frame part, assuming a shape that forces the two parts to maintain a tight
   physical association. In some embodiments, shapes project from one or both parts, and
15 interfere with one or more structural or other members of the mating part. In some
   embodiments, deployment expansion is accompanied by movements and/or shape
   changes which create locking associations between frame parts.
           In some embodiments of the invention, parts comprise one or more connection
   apertures.  In some embodiments,         apertures are connected by suturing. In some
20 embodiments of the invention, parts are connected through apertures by one or more
   fitted pieces and/or piece assemblies such as screws and nuts. In some embodiments of
   the invention, regions of connecting contact between parts are protected by intervening
   soft material; for example, fabric, silicone elastomer, or a plastic polymer.
           An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to flexibility of
25 the frame of the implanted prosthetic mitral valve. In some embodiments, a portion of
   the frame, for example, a middle portion of the atrial part, is provided with elastic
   members which compress upon receiving a dynamic force-for example, due to the
   contraction of the atrium-and expand again when the force is no longer exerted.
   Potentially, dynamic adjustment in size helps maintain fixation contact and sealing
30 throughout the heartbeat cycle while permitting the heart a fuller range of its original
   dynamic pumping motion. Depending on the specific frame member and the forces it

                                                  16
   receives, elastic motion may be through a range, for example of 1 mm, 3 mm, 5mm or a
   range in between.
     OVERVIEW OF SOME EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
      Characteristicsof Environment and Operation
 5         An aspect of some embodiments of the present invention relates to a prosthetic
   mitral valve comprising two frame parts, an atrial part and a ventricular part. The frame
   parts are provided with multiple structural aspects directed toward maintaining fixation
   of the prosthetic mitral valve within the dynamic environment of the living heart.
   Knowledge of the relationship of the structures of the frame to the tissues of the heart
10 helps promote an understanding of the present invention.
           When the prosthetic mitral valve is properly deployed, the atrial part is deployed
   inside a left atrium surrounding the mitral valve annulus, with a proximal portion
   thereof passing into (and in some embodiments through) the mitral valve annulus. The
   ventricular part of the prosthetic mitral valve deploys inside the left ventricle and grasps
15 the chords and/or leaflets of the mitral valve.
           In some embodiments, the atrial part of the prosthetic mitral valve has a
   diameter larger than that of the native mitral valve orifice.
           In some embodiments, the ventricular part of the prosthetic mitral valve grasps
   the native mitral valve chords and/or leaflets by arms. Grasping recruits the native
20 chords, and leaflets are recruited to seal the space between the native and the prosthetic
   mitral valve. In some embodiments, chords and/or leaflets are rotated around the mitral
   valve axis by rotating at least a part of the prosthetic mitral valve.
           In some embodiments, the atrial and/or the ventricular parts exert axial forces
   preventing movement of the prosthetic mitral valve into the left atrium. In some
25 embodiments, the atrial and the ventricular parts exert axial forces preventing rotational
   movement of chords and leaflets.
           In some embodiments, at least the atrial part is at least partially sheathed in an
   expandable gripping sheath which the expanded atrial part presses against the native
   leaflets when deployed. Potentially, this provides an advantage for secure gripping of
30 the native leaflets. In some embodiments, one or more of the atrial part and the
   ventricular part are provided with barbs which partially or fully penetrate tissue, for

                                                  17
   example a native valve leaflet, when deployed. Potentially, this provides an advantage
   for secure positioning of the prosthetic valve.
       ProstheticMitral Valve Frame
           According to an aspect of some embodiments of the invention there is provided
 5 a prosthetic mitral valve suitable for deployment in a mammalian heart. The prosthetic
   mitral valve of these embodiments comprises a frame functionally associated with the
   valve mechanism. In some embodiments of the invention, the frame comprises two
   major structural parts, atrial and ventricular. In particular, there is provided:
           a.      an atrial part defining a prosthetic mitral valve lumen and having a
10 proximal portion; the atrial part having a deployed configuration configured for
   deployment inside a left atrium of a heart wherein its proximal portion passes into the
   mitral valve annulus of the heart; and
           b.      a ventricular part, configured for deployment in a left ventricle of a heart,
   including arms for grasping the chords and/or leaflets of the mitral valve.
15         The association of the two parts with each other and with the heart comprises a
   portion of their function.
           In some embodiments of the invention, in the deployed configuration the atrial
   part of the prosthetic mitral valve is shaped with an inverted shoulder, having a
   narrower (axial dimension) proximal portion and a wider (axial dimension) distal
20 portion. When properly deployed in a heart, the shoulder of the wider distal part rests
   against the inner walls of the left atrium in proximity of the native mitral valve annulus,
   preventing the prosthetic mitral valve from moving into the left ventricle. When
   deployed in a heart, the proximal portion passes into the mitral valve annulus, and in
   some embodiments into the left ventricle, and in some embodiments even past the edges
25 of the native mitral valve leaflets.
           In some embodiments of the invention, in the deployed configuration the
   ventricular part of the prosthetic mitral valve is torus-shaped and includes at least one
   arm stemming radially. In some embodiments, arms are the structural members which
   recruit the chords of the native mitral valve into association with the prosthetic mitral
30 valve, providing potential advantages as described herein.

                                                  18
            In some embodiments of the invention, deployed arms project radially outward
   from the ventricular part and are shaped to contact the native chords and/or leaflets of
   the mitral valve. When rotated, the arms further induce a torsion force on these parts of
   the mitral valve, securing them in a rotated position.
 5          In some embodiments, the arms are adapted to grasp the native chords so that
   the contact between arm and chord when deployed is near the radial periphery of the
   mitral valve annulus, for example within 5 mm, within 3 mm, or within 1 mm.
   Potentially, grasping at a further distance increases the moment arm exerting force to
   keep the prosthetic valve in position.
10          In some embodiments, the arms are adapted to grasp the native chords so that
   the region of contact between arm and chord is rotationally displaced from the place at
    which the chord joins the native valve leaflet, relative to an axis of rotation running
   perpendicularly through the mitral valve annulus. The relative angle of contact and
   juncture is, for example, at least 30 degrees, at least 45 degrees, at least 75 degrees, or at
15 least 125 degrees. Potentially, a larger angular distance between the grasping juncture
   and the attachment juncture of the chord assists in pulling the leaflet across a larger
    surface area of the mitral valve annulus. Potentially, this provides a better seal for the
   valve.
            It is a potential advantage for the ventricular part to have relatively small axial
20 dimensions in the deployed configuration. A low profile when deployed inside a left
   ventricle helps avoid interferences with left ventricle functioning such as, example,
   partial occluding or causing turbulence in the vicinity of the aortic valve.
         Connecting of the two frame parts
            In some embodiments, the atrial and ventricular parts of the prosthetic mitral
25 valve frame are part of single unit and are physically connected, for example by their
   proximal ends. In some embodiments, connections between frame parts play multiple
   roles in fixation; and, in particular, help achieve fixation which takes advantage of
    structures of the heart including the native valve leaflets and/or chords.
            Physical connection may be accomplished before and/or after deployment, for
30 example, by suture and/or screw; or during deployment, for example by the use of
   elements which interlock as a result of deployment expansion.

                                                 19
           In some embodiments, the distance between the peripheral (axial dimension)
   parts of the atrial and ventricular parts is predetermined to tightly seize the tissue (for
   example, leaflets and/or fibrous ring) in proximity of a native mitral by applying an
   axial force.
 5         In some embodiments, the atrial part and the ventricular part of the prosthetic
   mitral valve are two physically separate components.
           In some embodiments, the atrial part and the ventricular part are configured for
   mutual fixation in the deployed configurations. When each part is in a deployed
   configuration and the prosthetic mitral valve is properly deployed in a heart, the two
10 parts can be fixed one to the other. In some embodiments, the configuration comprises
   the presence of eyelets, gaps, tabs, or other apertures and/or protrusions allowing mutual
   fixation with the help of an additional component of a type including, for example,
   suture thread, screw-and-nut, attachment rings, and/or ties.
           In some embodiments, the atrial part and the ventricular part are mateable in the
15 deployed configuration; that is to say, the atrial part includes one or more mating
   features configured to engage one or more mating features in the ventricular part. In
   some such embodiments, at least one of the atrial part and the ventricular part includes
   bending mating features, configured to receive a bend upon mating of the atrial part and
   the ventricular part. In some embodiments, the atrial part and the ventricular part engage
20 one another with protrusions which restrict their relative movements.
        Valve mechanism
           In some embodiments, the atrial part of the prosthetic mitral valve includes a
   valve mechanism, comprising at least one or more valve members which restrict blood
   flow in so that it is one-way through the valve in the direction from the heart left atrium
25 to the heart left ventricle. The valve mechanism is functionally associated with the
   prosthetic mitral valve lumen so that the one or more valve members operate. In some
   embodiments,. association is by, for example: suturing, gluing, dip molding, and/or
   crimping. In some embodiments, the ventricular part and/or the atrial part are provided
   with attachment structures adapted to participate in securing the valve mechanism.
30         The valve mechanism is suitable for functioning as a mitral valve. As such, it
   prevents flow of blood from the left ventricle to the left atrium through the prosthetic

                                                 20
   mitral valve lumen during ventricular systole but allows flow of blood from the left
   atrium to the left ventricle during diastole (for example, atrial systole).
           In some embodiments, the prosthetic valve is a mechanical valve designed to be
   deployed by open heart surgery. Not necessarily limiting examples of mechanical
 5 values include a bileaflet-mechanism (St. Jude mechanism), a caged-ball mechanism
   (for example, Starr-Edwards mechanism), or a tilting-disc mechanism (for example,
   Bjork-Shiley mechanism). In some embodiments, for example, for minimally invasive
   deployment, the valve mechanism is a leaflet-valve mechanism known in the art
   including at least two leaflets, or least three leaflets, for example, LotusTM or
10 CoreValveTM mentioned above. In some embodiments, the valve mechanism is inside
   the prosthetic mitral valve lumen. In some embodiments, the valve mechanism is more
   particularly in the prosthetic mitral valve lumen of the connecting part such that, when
   deployed, the valve mechanism is located across the native mitral valve annulus and/or
   inside the left heart ventricle. Optionally, for example when deployed during an open
15 heart surgical procedure, the valve mechanism is secured to the valve frame after the
   frame is deployed.
           Typically, artificial valve mechanisms, including leaflet-valve mechanisms are
   configured so as not to be subject to prolapse into a left atrium as can happen with
   native mitral valve leaflets. In some embodiments where a valve mechanism includes
20 leaflets that are potentially subject to prolapse, the prosthetic mitral valve optionally
   includes a prolapse-preventing component, for example as described in U.S. Patent
   Publication No. 2002/0065554 and U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004/0138745 or as
   implemented in the EndovalveTM (Endovalve Inc., Princeton, New Jersey, USA). In
   some embodiments where a valve mechanism includes leaflets that are potentially
25 subject to prolapse, the prosthetic mitral valve optionally includes a prolapse-preventing
   component that is substantially an artificial chord, for example as described in
   International Application Publication No. 2009/134701.
           As noted above, pericardial trileaflet valve mechanism can be disposed inside
   lumen of prosthetic mitral valve. The valve mechanism is oriented in a direction so that
30 when the atrial part is in a deployed configuration, the valve mechanism is functional. A
   functional valve mechanism allows the flow of blood from distal end to proximal end
   through the lumen, and blocks the retrograde flow of blood from proximal end to distal

                                                21
   end through the lumen. In such a way, valve mechanism is functionally associated with
   lumen in a manner suitable for functioning as a mitral valve.
        Dynamic conformation
           In some embodiments, the atrial part of the prosthetic mitral valve is configured,
 5 in the deployed configuration, to dynamically conform to the native mitral valve
   annulus and to the atrial walls in proximity of a native mitral valve of a heart in which
   deployed. Dynamic conformation provides potential advantages for maintaining fixation
   mechanisms which rely on connections to structures of the pumping heart.
           In some embodiments, in an unconfined environment, the expanded part is
10 slightly wider in the radial dimension than the native mitral valve annulus and/or atrial
   walls of the heart against which it presses when implanted. In some embodiments, the
   implanted atrial part radially expands to press against the atrial walls and the native
   mitral valve annulus.
           As the heart beats, the shape and dimensions of the atrial walls and of the native
15 mitral valve annulus change. In some embodiments, the atrial part dynamically
   conforms to these changes. Dynamic conformation potentially provides an advantage by
   permitting less impeded natural movement of the heart.
           In some embodiments, the atrial part is provided with one or more elastic
   structures, such as springs, adapted to resiliently conform to the atrial walls and/or
20 native mitral valve annulus. A potential advantage of such elastic structures is to allow
   pressing contact between the prosthetic valve and native structures, without impeding
   natural pumping motions of the heart.
        Expandable upper and lower parts
           In some embodiments, the atrial and ventricular parts are outwardly radially
25 expandable    from   a compact      delivery   configuration, for example,     a crimped
   configuration, to the deployed configuration. In some embodiments, compact delivery
   allows minimally invasive entry to the heart. In some embodiments, expansion
   following compact delivery is functions as part of the implantation procedures which
   establish good device fixation.
30         In some embodiments, the atrial and ventricular parts have a larger outer radius
   in the deployed configuration than in the delivery configuration. A potential advantage

                                                22
   of post-delivery expansion is compatibility with minimally-invasive deployment of the
   prosthetic mitral valve, for example, transapically, transfemorally, or transseptally. In
   some embodiments, delivery is with the use of a catheter deployment system such as a
   delivery catheter or similar.
 5         In some such embodiments, the parts are expandable from the delivery
   configuration to the deployed configuration by application of a radially outwards force
   to an inner surface thereof, for example, with a catheter-mounted balloon.
           In some embodiments,        the parts   are self-expanding     from the delivery
   configuration to the deployed configuration.
10       Arms
           In some embodiments, the arms are outwardly radially expandable from a
   compact delivery configuration to the deployed configuration. In some embodiments,
   arms are self-expanding from a delivery configuration to a deployed configuration. In
   some embodiments, deployment of arms after insertion into the vicinity of the native
15 mitral heart valve allows the arms to insert in among the native chords of the heart. One
   potential advantage of this is to place the arms in a position to recruit chords for device
   fixation.
           Optionally, the arms expand as part of the expanding ventricular part.
   Additionally or alternatively, the arms deploy at least in part independently of the
20 expanding ventricular part; for example, by bending around the axis of the ventricular
   part.
           In some embodiments, the arms protrude outward from a core region of the
   frame to regions where they encounter the chords of the native mitral valve. In some
   embodiments, they are shaped to grasp the native chords and/or leaflets of the mitral
25 valve, for example by being shaped with hooks and/or protrusions.
           According to some exemplary embodiments of the invention, the grasping
   shapes of the arms are engaged with the native chords and/or leaflets of the mitral valve
   by a rotation of the ventricular part. When the ventricular part is rotated, arms grasp the
   native chords and leaflets, causing at least portions of them to rotate around the mitral
30 valve axis.

                                                23
            In some embodiments, in a deployed configuration, arms are connected to the
   proximal end of the ventricular part by spokes. In some embodiments, the arms and
   spokes are supported by an annular rim. Potentially, the use of a spoked rim allows arms
   to be shorter. A shorter arm is potentially reduced in susceptibility to bending forces. A
 5 less flexible arm potentially provides firmer control of chords that it grasps. Potentially,
   the rim may serve as a limit on the movement of captured chords along the length of the
   arm. In some embodiments, the base end of an arm is held close to the chords when the
   frame is deployed, for example by a rim with a sufficiently wide deployed diameter.
   Optionally, such an arm is just long enough to form a chord- catching protrusion; for
10 example 1 mm long, 3 mm long, or 5 mm long.
            In some embodiments of the invention, arms have a shape which assists in
   producing and/or maintaining tension on the chords. In some embodiments, arms are
   provided with one or more protruding members and/or other interruptions along their
   length. A potential advantage of a protruding member and/or other interruption along
15 the length of an arm is to prevent a chord from slipping freely along the arm body to
   lower its tension as the arm is rotated against it during deployment, and/or after
   deployment. In some embodiments of the invention, arms are provided with a hook,
   which includes a terminal projection optionally reaching back in the central radial
   direction, the length of the back projection being, for example 1 mm, 3 mm, or 5 mm. In
20 some embodiments, a surface of the hook is sloped away from a direction of rotation
   toward the open end of the hook, with a slope that is, for example, less than 60 degrees
   off the tangent of the circumference of the direction of rotation.
            In some embodiments, the arm body itself is shaped so that tension in the chords
   is developed and/or maintained. A potential advantage of such a design is to increase
25 the locking force on the support components of the prosthetic valve, for example, by
   transmitting rotational force to atrial components so that they are pushed into closer
   contact with the atrial wall.
            According to the embodiment, arms have, for example, a T shape, an L shape, a
   curved shape, or a hook shape. One description common to these shapes is of having a
30 body, which in some embodiments serves to "sweep" a region of chords, particularly as
   it rotates, and at least one cross-member, which in some embodiments serves to control
   the position of contact with the arm. It should be noted that in some embodiments, even

                                                  24
   the static extension of the arm into a region of chords is sufficient to encompass a wide
   angle of chords in the shadow of the arm. In some embodiments, the arm angles across,
   for example, 10 degrees, 30 degrees, 40 degrees, or 60 degrees from its base to its point
   of maximum extension, around an axis passing through the native mitral valve aperture.
 5     Delivery Device for a ProstheticMitral Valve
           According to an aspect of some embodiments of the invention, the prosthetic
   mitral valve is deployed using, for example, open-heart surgery or minimally-invasive
   surgery. In some embodiments, a catheter deployment system is used such as a flexible
   catheter that enters the left ventricle through the vasculature and the aorta. In some
10 embodiments, the catheter deployment system comprises a catheter that enters the left
   atrium through the roof of the left atrium. In some embodiments, a catheter deployment
   system is used comprising a catheter that approaches the left atrium through the
   pulmonary vein, as in EndovalveTM by Micro Interventional Devices, Inc. (Bethlehem,
   PA, USA) and described in U.S. Patent Nos. 7,621,948; 7,753,949; 8,070,802 B2; and
15 U.S. Patent Application No. 12/582,986.
           In some embodiments, two part construction of the frame of the prosthetic mitral
   valve is reflected in the catheter deployment system; for example, by the provision of
   separate controls, deployment structures, and/or restraint structures for each part. Two
   part construction is potentially an advantage during deployment; for example, allowing
20 in-heart assembly and deployment steps which promote closer association with and/or
   fixation to the supporting tissue of the heart, as described herein.
           In some embodiments, a catheter deployment system is used comprising a
   transapical catheter that enters the left ventricle through the cardiac apex.
           According to an aspect of some embodiments of the invention, there is provided
25 a catheter deployment system for transapically deploying a prosthetic mitral valve
   contained therein, comprising some or all of the following:
           a.      a substantially tubular delivery housing including a delivery lumen
   having an opening at a distal end thereof;
            b.     inside the delivery lumen, a prosthetic mitral valve including at least an
30 atrial part and a ventricular part, in a compact--for example, crimped--delivery
   configuration,   the prosthetic mitral valve being outwardly radially          expandable
   subsequent to release from the delivery housing to a deployed configuration;

                                                25
           c.       a ventricular-part release mechanism allowing release of the ventricular
   part through the distal end of the delivery housing;
           d.       a rotation component functionally associated with the ventricular part,
   the rotation component configured to induce rotation to at least a part of the ventricular
 5 part when actuated;
           e.       an atrial-part release mechanism allowing release of the atrial part
   through the distal end of the delivery housing; and
           f.       a delivery device release mechanism allowing detachment of the delivery
   device from the delivered mitral valve.
10         In some embodiments, the atrial part includes a valve mechanism functionally
   associated with the prosthetic mitral valve lumen, the valve mechanism being suitable
   for functioning as a mitral valve.
        Balloon-expandable atrial part
           In some embodiments, the catheter deployment system comprises an upper-part
15 expansion assembly, configured to apply a radially outwards force to an inner surface of
   the atrial part subsequent to release from the delivery housing. The expansion assembly
   radially expands the atrial part from the delivery configuration to the deployed
   configuration. In some embodiments, the upper-part expansion assembly includes a
   catheter-mounted balloon catheter.
20         In some embodiments, the atrial part and the upper-part expansion assembly are
   together configured so that in the deployed configuration, the atrial part conforms to an
   atrial contour near the native mitral valve. In some embodiments, in which the upper
   part expansion assembly is a catheter-mounted balloon, the balloon has an inflated
   shape similar to the atrial contour near the native mitral valve. In some embodiments,
25 the balloon is a compliant balloon that adopts the shape of the atrial contour near the
   native mitral valve when inflated.
        Self-expanding atrial part
           In some embodiments, the upper part is self-expanding from the delivery
   configuration to the deployed configuration subsequent to release from the delivery
30 housing. In some such embodiments, the upper part is configured so that in the
   deployed configuration, the atrial part dynamically conforms to a mitral valve annulus

                                                 26
   and to the atrial walls in proximity of the mitral valve of the heart in which it is
   deployed.
        Balloon-expandable ventricular part
           In some embodiments, the catheter deployment system comprises a lower-part
 5 expansion assembly, configured to apply a radially outwards force to an inner surface of
   the lower part subsequent to release from the delivery housing. The lower-part
   expansion    assembly    radially   expands    the ventricular part from   the   delivery
   configuration to the deployed configuration. In some embodiments, the lower-part
   expansion assembly includes a catheter-mounted balloon catheter.
10      Self-expanding ventricular part
           In some embodiments, the lower part is self-expanding from the delivery
   configuration to the deployed configuration subsequent to release from the delivery
   housing.
        Self-expanding arms
15         In some embodiments, the grasping part of the ventricular part is self-expanding
   from the delivery configuration to the deployed configuration subsequent to release
   from the delivery housing.
        Rotation component
           As noted above, in some embodiments, at least a part of the prosthetic mitral
20 valve is associated with a rotation component, configured to induce rotation to at least
   one arm of the ventricular part when actuated.
           In some embodiments, the rotation component includes a sensor measuring the
   torque force being applied to chords and leaflets. In some embodiments, the rotation
   component includes a stopper mechanism, impeding applying torque forces above a
25 predetermined value to chords and leaflets.
           In some embodiments, the rotation component imparts a predetermined angle of
   rotation as a step in prosthetic mitral valve deployment.
        Fixation component
           In some embodiments, a fixation component is functionally associated with at
30 least the atrial part of the prosthetic mitral valve, the fixation component being

                                                  27
   configured to regulate the distance between the peripheral (axial dimension) parts of the
   atrial and the ventricular parts after their deployment.
            Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be
   understood that the invention is not necessarily limited in its application to the details of
 5 construction and the arrangement of the components and/or methods set forth in the
   following description and/or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of
   other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways.
     VALVE EMBODIMENTS
            Parts of an embodiment of a prosthetic mitral valve are schematically depicted
10 in the following figures.
            Reference is now made to Figures 29A-B, which schematically depict a
   prosthetic mitral valve 10, according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
   These figures overview the main components of prosthetic mitral valve embodiments,
   as related to herein.
15          In some embodiments of the invention, prosthetic mitral valve 10 comprises
   frame parts including ventricular part 32, and an atrial part 35. In some embodiments,
   the ventricular part 32 surrounds the proximal (lower) end of the atrial part 35. In some
   exemplary embodiments of the invention, these parts 32, 35 provide the superstructure
   which anchors the prosthetic mitral valve 10 within the heart; for example, according to
20 principles and details described herein.
            In some embodiments of the invention, ventricular part 32 comprises one or
   more arms 34 which are sized, shaped, and positioned to engage with the chords of the
   native mitral valve when deployed. In some embodiments, chord engagement by the
   arms 34 is encouraged by rotational movement of at least the ventricular part 32 during
25 deployment. Potentially, at least a portion of the chords which the arms 34 engage with
   are captured and recruited into fixation of the prosthetic mitral valve, for example, by
   pulling the native valve leaflets into closer association with the prosthetic valve.
            Shown held within the lumen of the atrial and/or ventricular parts is the
   prosthetic valve mechanism 49, comprising at least the valve member that restricts
30 blood flow from the ventricle to the atrium. The valve member is, for example, a

                                                28
   plurality of valve leaflets. In some embodiments of the invention, valve mechanism 49
   replaces the valve function of the native atrial valve leaflets.
           In some embodiments of the invention, ventricular part 32 is provided with a
   ventricular part skirt 48. In some embodiments, ventricular part skirt 48 is made of an
 5 appropriate biocompatible material, for example PET, a fixing bovine or porcine
   pericardium, and/or other biocompatible polymer. In some embodiments, a polymer
   such as PET is combined with a fixing bovine or porcine pericardium. In some
   embodiments, the skirt is attached to the ventricular part by suturing. In some
   embodiments, a skirt is attached by polymer dipping and/or spattering on the frame. In
10 some embodiments, the thickness of polymer sections of the skirt is, for example, in the
   range of 0.01 mm - 0.03 mm, or thicker.           In some embodiments, the thickness of
   pericardium-derived sections of the skirt is, for example, in the range of 0.2 mm - 035
   mm, or a range including thinner or thicker values.
           In some embodiments, the ventricular part skirt 48 expands along with the
15 ventricular part during deployment. Potentially, the ventricular part skirt 48 provides an
   advantage in use by acting as a protective barrier between tissue and the metal of the
   ventricular part. Potentially, the ventricular part skirt 48 has advantages listed in
   connection with the atrial skirt 47, below.
           In some embodiments of the invention, atrial part 35 is provided with an atrial
20 part skirt 47 (skirt 47 is suppressed in Figure29B in so that valve mechanism 49 may be
   more clearly seen). In some embodiments, atrial part skirt 47 is made of an appropriate
   biocompatible material, for example, from among those listed for the ventricular part
   skirt 48. In some embodiments, atrial part skirt 47 is constructed and/or attached, for
   example, as described for ventricular skirt 48.
25         In some embodiments, the atrial part skirt 47 expands along with the atrial part
   during deployment. Potentially, the atrial part skirt 47 provides an advantage by acting
   as a protective barrier between tissue and the metal of the atrial part. Potentially, the
   atrial part skirt 47 provides additional friction, which assists with native valve leaflet
   capture and/or preservation of capture. Potentially, and particularly in embodiments in
30 which it is constructed of pericardium, the atrial part skirt 47 provides a substrate
   promoting ingrowth of, for example, the native leaflets of the mitral valve, promoting a
   stronger attachment. Potentially, the atrial skirt 47 provides an advantage for extra

                                                29
   sealing against the retrograde flow of blood in the region of the native mitral valve
   annulus.
       Valve Embodiment with Ventricle PartBand
           Reference is now made to Figure 1, which schematically depicts an exemplary
 5 prosthetic mitral valve 10 in unexpanded and deployed configurations positioned inside
   the native mitral valve annulus 20, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention.
           Atrial part 35A is shown still unexpanded, in the configuration it has when it is
   inserted to the heart. Ventricle part 32 is shown already expanded. Atrial part 35 is
10 shown in its expanded configuration, as assumed after full deployment of prosthetic
   mitral valve 10.
           In some embodiments, atrial part 35 and ventricular part 32 are physically
   connected via a connecting part 54. In some embodiments, atrial and ventricular parts
   are one part. Arms 34 grasp native chords 22 and/or leaflets of native mitral valve 24
15 when rotated. In some embodiments, the rotation pulls the leaflets into a position that
   closes the gaps between the native mitral valve and prosthesis 10. In an exemplary
   embodiment of the invention, mitral valve annulus 20 is seized between atrial part 35
   and ventricular part 32 of prosthetic mitral valve.
           Reference is now made to Figures 2A-2B, which depict two different views of
20 an exemplary atrial part 35 and a ventricular part 32 including arms 34, together
   comprised in a prosthetic mitral valve frame in a compact delivery configuration,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
           In some embodiments of the invention, parts 35, 34 and/or 32 are fashioned of
   self-expanding nitinol, biased to a larger outer radius deployed configuration.
25 Optionally, parts 35, 32, and/or 34 are laser-cut from a tube of nitinol. Optionally, the
   tube has an outer diameter with an outer diameter of 8 mm, 10 mm, 12 mm, or another
   outer diameter larger or smaller, or any diameter in between. Optionally, the tube has a
   wall thickness of 0.25 mm, 0.35 mm, 0.5 mm, 0.8 mm, or another thickness larger or
   smaller, or any thickness in between.
30         Parts 35 and 32 are depicted in a compact delivery configuration, for example,
   as if held inside a delivery lumen of a delivery housing of a catheter deployment system
   such as a valve-deployment catheter. Optionally, parts 35 and 32 are in a crimped

                                               30
   configuration. In some embodiments, the unit comprising the delivery configuration of
   parts 35 and 32 has a total length which is 23 mm, 25 mm, 28 mm, 30 mm, 32 mm, or
   another longer or shorter length, or any length in between. In some embodiments, the
   delivery configuration of parts 35 and 32 packages them separately, and they are
 5 brought together during deployment. The atrial part 35 defines a prosthetic mitral valve
   lumen 31 between a proximal end 30 and a distal end 33.
           Optionally, one or more arms 34 are curved with the interior facing in the
   direction of rotation during deployment of the valve in the native mitral valve annulus.
   Optionally, rotation of the arms 34 recruits the chords into the fixation of the valve.
10 Optionally chord recruitment pulls the native valve leaflets into a sealing relationship
   with the prosthetic valve. Optionally, the rotation is imparted, for example, by the
   rotation device as used from outside the body when using the apex approach.
           Atrial part 35 is divided into two portions between proximal end 30 and distal
   end 33: a proximal portion 37 and a distal portion 38. The atrial part 35 is comprised of
15 struts.
           Reference is now made to Figures 3A-3D, which depict four different views of
   an exemplary prosthetic mitral valve frame (which may correspond, for example, to the
   compact frame shown in Figures 2A-2B) with its ventricular part 32 in a deployed
   configuration, according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. The ventricular
20 part 32 is physically connected to the atrial part 35 by its proximal end 36. In a
   deployed   configuration, arms 34 expand radially from the proximal part of the
   ventricular part to physically engage with native chords and leaflets. Arms 34 are
   connected to the proximal end 34 by spokes 39, and are also supported by an annular
   rim 40. In some embodiments, the partially deployed configuration of Figures 3A-3D is
25 the configuration in which chord-capturing rotation is applied to engage the arms 34 of
   the frame with the native mitral valve chords.
           Reference is now made to Figures 4A-4B, which depict two views of an
   exemplary prosthetic mitral valve with its atrial part 35 and ventricular part 32
   unconstrained and adopting a deployed configuration, according to an exemplary
30 embodiment of the invention.
           In some embodiments corresponding to the deployed configuration depicted in
   Figures 4A-4B, atrial part 35 adopts the shape of an inverted shoulder. In some

                                                 31
   embodiments, the wide end of the shoulder has an outer diameter at distal end 33 which
   is 38 mm, 40 mm, 42 mm, 44 mm, any diameter in between, or a greater or lesser
   diameter. In some embodiments, the narrow end has an outer diameter at proximal end
   30 which is 23 mm, 25 mm, 27 mm, 29 mm, 31 mm, any diameter in between, or a
 5 greater or lesser diameter. In some embodiments, the atrial part has total length which is
   24 mm, 26 mm, 28 mm, 30 mm, 32 mm, any length in between, or a greater or lesser
   length.
           In some embodiments, the size and shape of atrial part 35 are adapted for
   deployment inside a left atrium of a heart wherein proximal portion 37 passes into a
10 mitral valve annulus, while the outer surface of distal portion 38, larger in diameter than
   the mitral valve annulus, rests against the inner walls of the left atrium in proximity of
   the mitral valve annulus.
           In some embodiments, deployment of atrial part 35 occurs after a rotation of at
   least a portion of the mitral valve frame which recruits rotational tension by interactions
15 with the mitral valve chords. In some embodiments, deployment of atrial part presses
   against and/or penetrates portions of the native heart tissue and/or ventricular part 32,
   locking the rotational tension into place.
       Valve Embodiment with Independent Arm Mounts
           Reference is now made to Figures 13A-13F, which schematically illustrate an
20 exemplary     embodiment    of a prosthetic     valve  100, according    to an exemplary
   embodiment of the invention. For clarity, the prosthetic mitral valve leaflets (and other
   blood flow control elements) have been omitted from the figures.
           Figure 13A depicts a side view of valve 100 in which ventricular part 132 is in
   the deployed (or expanded) state and atrial part 135 is in the compressed state.
25         Figure 13B depicts a top view of valve 100 of Figure 13A.
           Figure 13C depicts a magnified view of Figure 13A.
           Figure 13D depicts an isometric view of valve 100 of Figure 13A.
           Figure 13E depicts a side view of valve 100 in the fully deployed state. Both
   atrial part 135 and ventricular part 134 are fully expanded.
30         Figure 13F depicts an isometric view of valve 100 expanded as in Figure 13E.
           The depictions of Figures 13A-13F illustrate alternate embodiments of certain
   mechanisms of operation disclosed herein. Alternative embodiments include changes to

                                                32
   the relative attachment positions of the arms 134 to the structure of the overall valve
   100. In some embodiments of the invention, arms 134 are attached individually on
   separate struts 160A, 160B, instead of being basally mounted to a common ring
   structure. In some embodiments, independent mounting of the arms 134 allows
 5 individual determination of deployment characteristics such as their extending distance
   and extension angle.
           In some embodiments of the invention, one or more arms 134 are curved with
   the inner part of the curve facing the direction of rotation which is applied to recruit the
   chords of the native mitral valve. Rotation is imparted, for example, by the rotation
10 device as used from outside the body when using the apex approach.
           In an exemplary embodiment, arms 134 are attached to atrial part 135 without
   being attached to one another, for example, other than at atrial part 135. Optionally,
   arms 134 are attached to atrial part 135 by one or more struts (for example, two struts)
   160A, 160B. Optionally, struts 160A. 160B are integrated with struts forming atrial part
15 135, or are attached to struts of atrial part 135, for example, by welding, crimping, or
   other methods. Optionally or additionally, struts 160A, 160B are attached to atrial part
   135 away from the proximal end 162, for example, at least 1 mm, 3 mm, 5 mm, 7 mm,
   10 mm, or other smaller, intermediate or larger distances away.
           In some embodiments, each arm 134 radially expands to a potentially different
20 diameter and/or potentially different axial height. In some embodiments, differentially
   extending arms 134 are provided. Potentially, differential extension permits adjustment
   to anatomical variations of the mitral valve and/or to diseased mitral valves (for
   example, calcifications, loose chords, and/or rigid chords). Potentially, attachment of
   the arms to struts 160A, 160B which project distally from the proximal edge of the
25 ventricular part 132 helps to better grab hold of the leaflets between the atrial and
   ventricular parts, as the leaflet is anchored by pressure from arms 134, brought into
   close association with it by elevation from struts 160A and 160B. In some
   embodiments, an arm itself is only as long as needed to catch at a chord, for example,
   1mm , 3 mm, or 5 mm. This is possible, for example, if one or more supporting struts
30 present the arm far enough within the region of the chords that the arm is likely to
   encounter chords even near its attached base.

                                                33
           Reference is now made to Figure 17, which is a photograph supplemented by
   schematic lines of an exemplary deployed ventricular part 32 of a prosthetic mitral
   valve 10, according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
           (It should be noted that in the photograph, atrial part retaining tube 53 maintains
 5 hidden atrial part in its crimped position, while ventricular part 32 is expanded.)
           In some embodiments of the invention, the arms 34 of ventricular part 32
   comprise one or more side projections 60 protruding from the main body of the arm
   along its sides. In some embodiments of the invention, the projections are members
   have a length from their free end to their attached end of 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, or any
10 length in between, or a longer or shorter length. In some embodiments, the arms have a
   width which ranges, for example, between 2 mm and 6 mm. In some embodiments,
   projections are members which project toward the base of the arm. Potentially, the side
   projections 60 comprise an advantage for grasping the native chords 22 of the native
   mitral valve 24, by preventing them from sliding along the capturing arm 34 to a
15 position of lowered stretching. Potentially, backward-projecting side projections 60
   comprise an advantage by pushing chords aside as arm 34 extends into a region of
   chords, and blocking the escape of chords when there is relative movement in another
   direction. More fully stretched chords provide a potential advantage by exerting a
   stronger restraining force on the sealing of the native valve leaflets.
20         Reference is now made to Figures 18A-18B, which are schematic illustrations of
   an exemplary deployed ventricular part 32 of a prosthetic mitral valve 10, according to
   an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
           In some embodiments, the arms 34 of the ventricular part 32 are adapted to
   grasp the native chords 22 so that arms and chords contact near the radial periphery of
25 the mitral valve annulus, for example within 5 mm, within 3 mm, or within 1 mm.
   During deployment, rotation of ventricular part 32 is in the clockwise direction as seen
   from above. Chord capture is aided by a combination of design factors:
           a.      In some embodiments, arm 34 extends far enough to approach the radial
   periphery of the annulus.
30         b.      In some embodiments, arm 34 is provided with internal curl 67,
   including a hook 68. Potentially, this provides an advantage by allowing chords that
   have been guided to enter the interior area fewer directions of escape. Potentially, the

                                               34
   curl provides a degree of lateral strength to the structure of the arm, so that it resists
   bending in the opposite direction when it encounters the chords.
           It should be noted that in some deployments of the invention, the heart, and
   therefore the chords, continue to move. It is potentially beneficial to rotate the arms
 5 without delay once trapping begins, so that chords are tightened as they are caught, and
   have diminished opportunity to work free again.
       Two-component Valve Fixation Embodiment with Mutual Attachment Elements
           Reference is now made to Figures 5A-5B, which depict two views of a
   prosthetic mitral valve frame in a compact delivery configuration, wherein the atrial part
10 35 and the ventricular part 32 of the prosthetic mitral valve are two physically separate
   components, according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In some
   embodiments of the invention, separated valve frame parts allows, for example,
   independent rotation of the ventricular part 32 when recruiting the native mitral valve
   chords. Potentially, it is an advantage if atrial part 35 and/or components it contains,
15 such as a valve mechanism, remain stationary and/or undeployed during chord
   recruitment. For example, having atrial part 35 detached and undeployed during rotation
   of ventricular part 32 potentially reduces the possibility of interfering contacts with
   other portions of the heart. In some embodiments, attachment of ventricular part 32 and
   atrial part 35 is performed during operations to deploy the prosthetic mitral valve, for
20 example, through the use of attachment mechanisms described herein.
            Optionally, parts 35, 32, and/or 34 are laser-cut from a tube of nitinol.
   Optionally, the tube has an outer diameter with an outer diameter of 8 mm, 10 mm, 12
   mm, or another outer diameter larger or smaller, or any diameter in between.
   Optionally, the tube has a wall thickness of 0.25 mm, 0.35 mm, 0.5 mm, 1 mm, or
25 another thickness larger or smaller, or any thickness in between. Parts 35 and 32 are
   depicted in a compact delivery configuration, for example, as if held inside a delivery
   lumen of a delivery housing of a catheter deployment system such as a valve
   deployment catheter. In some embodiments,            the unit comprising the delivery
   configuration of parts 35 and 32 has a total length which is 23 mm, 25 mm, 28 mm, 30
30 mm, 32 mm, or another longer or shorter length, or any length in between. The atrial
   part 35 defines a prosthetic mitral valve lumen 31 between a proximal end 30 and a
   distal end 33.

                                                35
           In some embodiments, the atrial part 35 has a length, for example, of 34 mm, 36
   mm, 38 mm, 40 mm, 42 mm, any length in between, or a longer or shorter length. In
   some embodiments, the ventricular part 32 has a length, for example, of 10 mm, 11 mm,
   12 mm, 14 mm, any length in between, or a longer or shorter length.
 5         In some embodiments of the invention, attachment of the ventricular part 32 and
   the atrial part 35 is achieved by interlocking structures which are brought into contact
   and/or undergo a conformational change during prosthetic mitral valve deployment.
           In some embodiments of the invention, three perforated tabs 41 extend from the
   proximal end of atrial part 30. These tabs have a length of 5 mm, 7 mm, 9 mm, any
10 length in between, or a longer or shorter length. Amongst other potential functions, tabs
   41 serve in some embodiments for mutual fixation of atrial part 35 and ventricular part
   32. Lockers 42 extend from the proximal end of ventricular part 36. Amongst other
   potential functions, lockers 42 serve in some embodiments for mutual fixation of atrial
   part 35 and ventricular part 32 by interacting with tabs 41. Optionally, lockers 42 are
15 manufactured with a shape memory, and undergo a conformational change during
   deployment and/or manufacture which wraps them around a corresponding tab structure
   41.
           Reference is now made to Figures 25A-25B, which show schematic perspective
   views of an atrial part 35 inserted into a ventricular part 32, with the atrial part 35
20 prevented from moving distally out of the ventricular part 32 by a spur member 52,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. Figure 25B shows an
   expanded view of the lower left corner of Figure 25A.
           In some embodiments of the invention, spur member 52 protrudes from atrial
   part 35 of prosthetic mitral valve 100. In some embodiments, spur member 52 extends
25 in the direction of ventricular part 32 and into and/or beyond the space defined by the
   members of the ventricular part 32 frame. The interpenetration prevents atrial part 35
   from moving in at least one direction, for example the distal axial direction, by
   interference with one or more members 54 of the ventricular part 32. Optionally, spur
   member 52 is formed as a spring, and elastically interacts with one or more members 54
30 so that downward forces on the atrial part 35 persist over a range of relative axial
   positions of atrial part 35 and ventricular part 32; for example, an axial displacement of
   up to 1 mm, 2 mm, 5mm, or an intermediate range.

                                                36
             In some embodiments of the invention, spur member 52 expands during
   deployment, for example after release from a restraining tube, to interact with members
   54, for example after relative rotation of ventricular part 32.
             A potential advantage of spur member 52 is attachment of ventricular part 32
 5 and atrial part 35 to prevent relative motion without additional clamping or suturing. A
   particular advantage is potentially obtained by disposing spur member 52 to resist distal
   motion of the atrial part 35 during ventricular systole, where high pressures in the left
   ventricle are caused by contraction of the left ventricle, tends to force a prosthetic mitral
   valve into the left atrium.
10           It should be understood that a spur member is alternatively or additionally
   provided with connections and forces acting in other directions. In one example, it is in
   the reciprocal position, attached to ventricular part 32 and protruding inward, so that a
   member of atrial part 35 which is below (proximal) to it is caught and restrained from
   upward movement, for example during ventricular systole.
15           Reference is now made to Figures28A-28C, which show schematic perspective
   partial views of an atrial part 35 inserted into a ventricular part 32, with a ventricular
   part attachment structure 55 and atrial part attachment structure 61, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the invention. Figure 28B shows a magnified view of a
   portion of Figure 28A, at the proximal end of the mitral valve lumen 30.
20           In some embodiments of the invention, attachment structures 55, 61 are used to
   help ensure the connection between ventricular part 32 and atrial part 35. In some
   embodiments, continuous close relative positioning of the ventricular part 32 and the
   atrial part 35 helps ensure good prosthetic atrial valve fixation; for example, secure
   capture of the native atrial valve leaflets, which in some embodiments is pulled in
25 between them during operations which recruits and pulls on the chords attached to the
   leaflets.
             In some embodiments, attachment structures 55, 61 are provided with one or
   more apertures for securing together with sutures and/or securing hardware such as a
   bolt screw and matching nut. In some embodiments, a plurality of apertures is provided.
30 In some embodiments, the apertures are oval. In some embodiments, the apertures are
   rectangular. This provides a potential advantage, for example, in alignment before
   securing, so that the parts do not need to be perfectly matched in order for there to be a

                                                37
   clear pathway through a shared aperture. In some embodiments, apertures used for
   attachment are provided on facing surfaces that can be brought into close contact, so
   that the apertures can be secured tightly to each other.
           Figure 28C shows exemplary suturing 74 connecting attachment structures 55,
 5 61 of the ventricular part 32 and the atrial part 35 of a prosthetic mitral valve frame.
   Optionally, suturing is performed, for example, using heart valve industry standard size
   3/0 wires and standard size 12 beading needles.
           Reference is now made to Figures 26A-26D, which show schematic perspective
   partial views of an atrial part 35 inserted into a ventricular part 32, with a protective
10 insert 56 provided for use with ventricular part attachment structure 55 and atrial part
   attachment structure 61, according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. A
   protective insert 56 provides a potential advantage for preventing scratching by with
   wire suture material.
           In Figure 26A, unprotected attachment structures 55, 61 are shown. Figure 26B
15 shows protective insert 56 in detail. In some embodiments, protective insert 56 is
   comprised of a yielding and/or non-conductive material, such as silicone elastomer or
   plastic polymer. In some embodiments, insert 56 is shaped to be inserted into one or
   more apertures of attachment structures 55, 61, covering the metal. Figures 26C and
   26D show the insert in position, viewed from the outside- and inside-facing sides of
20 insert 56, respectively.
           Potentially, insert 56 provides an advantage against wear of the underlying
   metal, such as scratching, by suturing material, particularly suturing material comprised
   of metal wire. Scratches and other surface damage are potential contributors to galvanic
   corrosion; preventing them provides a potential advantage for device durability.
25         Reference is now made to Figures27A-27C, which show schematic perspective
   views of a screw 58 and nut 59 provided for use in attaching ventricular part attachment
   structure 55 and atrial part attachment structure 61, according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments, the ventricular part and the atrial
   part are attached to each other using screw-and-nut prior to insertion.
30         Figure 27C shows the screw 58 and nut 59 part in exploded perspective view.
   Figures 27A and 27B show the screw 58 and nut 59 assembled through apertures of the

                                                 38
   attachment structures 55, 61 from the outside- and inside-facing sides of the attachment
   structures 55, 61, respectively.
           Potentially, a screw and nut may be used to secure attachment between the
   ventricular part and the atrial part with a tighter association than is provided, for
 5 example, by suturing wire.
           Reference is now made to Figures 6A-6B, which depict two views of a
   prosthetic mitral valve unconstrained, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention. In some embodiments, the size and shape of atrial part 35 are adapted for
   deployment inside a left atrium of a heart. In deployment, proximal portion 37 passes
10 into a mitral valve annulus, while the outer surface of distal portion 38 snugly rests
   against the inner walls of the left atrium in proximity of the mitral valve annulus.
           In some embodiments corresponding to the deployed configuration depicted in
   Figure 6B, ventricular part 32 comprises a ring. In some embodiments, the ring has an
   outer diameter at ventricular part distal end 43 of 34 mm, 36 mm, 38 mm, 40 mm, 42
15 mm, any diameter in between, or a longer or shorter diameter. In some embodiments,
   the outer diameter at proximal end 44 is 28 mm, 30 mm, 32 mm, 34 mm, any diameter
   in between, or a longer or shorter diameter. In some embodiments, the length of
   ventricular part 32 is 8 mm, 9 mm, 10 mm, 12 mm, any length in between, or a longer
   or shorter length. In some embodiments, lockers 42 enclose tabs 41 creating an
20 attachment between atrial part 35 and ventricular part 32.
           Reference is now made to Figures 7A-7D, which depict four views of an
   exemplary    prosthetic  mitral valve unconstrained      in a deployment       configuration,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. The size and shape of
   ventricular part 32 is such that when atrial part 35 is deployed inside a left atrium of a
25 heart as described above, ventricular part 32 can be placed so as to encircle a part of the
   proximal portion 37 of atrial part 35 and the native mitral valve leaflets of the heart. In
   some embodiments, atrial part 35 is biased to self-expand to a diameter which presses
   against the interior of ventricular part 32. Potentially, pressing between the two parts
   creates a frictional association which aids in fixation. In particular, a tighter association
30 between the two parts potentially serves to entrap a mitral valve leaflet which has been
   drawn between them.       In some embodiments, atrial part 35 protrudes proximally to

                                                 39
   ventricular part 32 when deployed, as well as distally. Optionally, atrial part 35 expands
   wider than ventricular part 32 in the protruding portions.        Potentially, this creates a
   shape-locking association between the two parts, so that ventricular part 32 is locked
   axially into place along the extent of atrial part 35. In a deployed configuration, lockers
 5 42 at least partially wrap around tabs 41, thus maintaining ventricular part 32 and atrial
   part 35 fixed one to the other.
     FIXATION OF THE PROSTHETIC MITRAL VALVE EMBODIMENTS
       Initial Insertion
            Reference is now made to Figures 8-11 and Figures30A-E. which schematically
10 illustrate an exemplary method for deploying a prosthetic mitral valve 10 as described
   herein, using a catheter deployment system 50, according to exemplary embodiments of
   the invention. Reference is also made to Figure32, 900-980 which is a flowchart listing
   exemplary steps in the surgical implantation of some exemplary embodiments of the
   invention.
15          In some embodiments of the invention, a prosthetic mitral valve 10 is implanted
   transapically using a catheter deployment system. In some embodiments, and according
   to medical indications, an open heart surgical procedure is used.
            After surgical preparation    900, and fluoroscopic      observation, apex 21 is
   punctured 905 and a catheter deployment system 50 is passed through the apex (Figure
20 8) 910. In some embodiments of the invention, catheter deployment system 50 is guided
   to the left ventricle 26 and then passed retrograde through the native mitral valve 24 to
   the left atrium 25, as depicted in Figure 9.
            Optionally, ventricular part 32 and atrial part 35 are held in the compressed state
   by one or more sheaths. Optionally or additionally, the sheaths are arranged around
25 parts 32 and 35 so that ventricular part 32 and atrial part 35 are separately expandable.
   Optionally, ventricular part 32 is expandable before atrial part 35.
            In some embodiments of the invention, there are at least three parts acting as
   sheaths in catheter deployment system 50, as shown in Figure 30A: an overtube 63, a
   nosecone 62, and an atrial part retaining tube 53. Overtube 63 contains the proximal
30 parts of prosthetic mitral valve 10. Nosecone 62 confines the distal parts of the
   prosthetic mitral valve 10, and in particular the distal end of the atrial part. In Figure

                                                 40
   30B, the overtube 63 is shown partially retracted, and partially transparent to reveal
   underlying detail. Underneath, retaining tube 53 (also shown transparent) overlies at
   least the proximal portion of atrial part 35.
           In some embodiments of the invention, ventricular part 32 is rotated during
 5 deployment, for example as detailed in the next section. Fork 70 is a deployment clamp
   which holds ventricular part 32 during this rotation. It is attached to the base of
   ventricular part 32 through prongs 71. Optionally, another sheath, shank tube 64, is
   provided between deployment clamp/fork 70 and atrial part 35 which prevents
   movement of the atrial part 35 during fork rotation.
10     Ventricle PartExpansion and Chord Capture
           In some embodiments, after passing the catheter deployment system through the
   native mitral valve 24, a proximal end 51 is retracted (for example, the sheath is pulled)
   proximally, as in Figure 10 to release ventricular part 32 from its compact containment
   915.
15         In some embodiments, ventricular part 32 is self-expanding 920, and then
   expands 930 to a properly deployed position in left ventricle 26. Non-self-expanding
   embodiments of the ventricular part may be expanded, for example, by an expansion
   mechanism acting on it from inside, for example, a balloon catheter 925. In some
   embodiments, arms 34 radially extend to a deployed position. In some embodiments,
20 the extended arms are inserted among the chords of the mitral valve.
           In some embodiments, as illustrated by Figure 30C, when the overtube 63 has
   been retracted sufficiently, the arms 34 of ventricular part 32 undergo a conformational
   change, and extend toward their deployed configuration. Figure 30D shows the
   overtube fully retracted. In some embodiments, fork 70 is a deployment clamp attached
25 to ventricular part 32, in order to manipulate it (and in particular, rotate it) after
   expansion. In some embodiments, it expands along ventricular part 32. Optionally, atrial
   part 35 is still held in place by nosecone 62 and atrial part retaining tube 53.
           In some embodiments, once arms 34 are in deployed position, catheter
   deployment system 50 or a part of it is rotated 935, thus inducing rotation of the arms of
30 ventricular part 32. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the rotation is induced by
   the conformational changes that put the arms in their deployed position. In some
   embodiments, arms 34 physically engage with native chords 22, pulling them around

                                                 41
   the mitral valve 10 axis. In some embodiments, the maximum moment exerted during
   rotation is 2 cNm, 5 cNm, 10 cNm, 15cNm, or any value in between, or a greater or
   lesser value, as determined to be appropriate for the conditions of deployment. In some
   embodiments, the rotation imparted is about 10 degrees, about 20 degrees, about 30
 5 degrees, about 60 degrees, about 120 degrees, or other smaller, intermediate or larger
   degrees of rotation.
            In some embodiments of the invention, arms 34 are first partially deployed, for
   example, by removing overtube 63 only partially. In some embodiments of the
   invention, arms 34 are designed to be smooth to at least a partially deployable point
10 along their length. Potentially, this allows the arms 34 to be repeatedly partially
   deployed, optionally rotated, and then retracted again; until the operator is satisfied that
   the arms 34 are deployed to a position which is sufficient to encounter the chords of the
   mitral valve and recruit them for prosthetic valve fixation. In some embodiments, full
   deployment of the arms follows, for example, by complete retraction of overtube 63. In
15 some embodiments, projections attached to the arms are exposed by full deployment,
   allowing their use in the final tensioning and recruitment of the chords of the mitral
   valve for prosthetic valve fixation.
            Reference is now made to Figures 31A-31I, which are schematic diagrams
   illustrating the recruitment of mitral valve chords during deployment of an arm 34,
20 according to exemplary embodiments of the invention. The view is from the atrial side
   of the deploying valve ("above" it).
            Corresponding to some embodiments of the invention, Figure 31A shows arms
   34 of an exemplary ventricular part 32, attached to a supporting rim 40. In some
   embodiments, arms 34 are provided with projections 60, for example as described in
25 Figure 17, and a hook 68.
            In Figures 31B, 31C, and 31D, one representative arm 34 is shown in three
   successive rotational positions. The dotted circles 84, represent potential undeflected
   positions of chords stretching perpendicular to the plane of the illustration, before arm
   deployment. Many positions are shown to illustrate what may occur in different
30 deployment configurations, and not as an illustration of actual anatomy.
            Filled circles 86 represent potential deflected positions of chords touching arm
   34, and filled circles surrounded by a dotted boundary 82 represent potential positions

                                                 42
   of undeflected chords. Deflected chords are further indicated by a line connecting the
   deflected and undeflected positions.
           As the arm undergoes a conformational change from its delivery configuration,
   it potentially passes between and/or interacts with chords in different positions along its
 5 extent. In Figure 31B, some chords 88 are in potentially captured contact with structures
   of the arm, while others are uncontacted 82, 87, or have been pushed aside 86 during
   deployment. During the conformational changes which lead to the position of Figure
   3B from an initially compacted form, some chords may have been transiently deflected
   (not shown). In some embodiments, the extension of an arm 34 into the region of the
10 chords of the mitral valve is itself generative of tensile forces within one or more chords
   acting on the prosthetic valve frame. For example, in Figure 31A, several chord
   positions, including deflected chord positions 88, 86, are displaced from their
   undeflected configuration as a result of fin 34 extension. Potentially (and whether or not
   insertion alone results in a net torque on ann 34 within the plane of the exemplary
15 drawing), a component of the tension forces acting on displaced chords acts, for
   example, to recruit the leaflets of the native mitral valve into closer association with the
   prosthetic valve frame.
           In Figure 31C, the arm 34 has been rotated clockwise. As a result, some
   previously captured chords 88 have stretched. Other chords 87 have been recruited. By
20 the rotational position of Figure 31D, several chords have been recruited. In some
   embodiments, forces exerted by these recruited chords are used to assist in the fixation
   of the prosthetic mitral valve, according, for example, to the mechanisms of interaction
   described herein.
           In some embodiments, the situation of Figure31C may also be achieved without
25 externally exerted rotational motion. Figure 31E illustrates an embodiment in which
   chord-recruiting motion is internally generated by the structure of the arm and/or its
   mounting. Optionally a self-expanding arm 34 may be preset to initially expand more
   radially, so that it inserts among the chords, for example to position 77. In some
   embodiments, as conformational changes continue, the arm receives an angular
30 displacement, so that it moves, for example, toward position 76. The difference in
   position illustrated is similar in size to the movement of arm 34 between Figure 31B

                                                43
   and Figure 31C, but may be larger or smaller depending on the particular design. This
   motion potentially plays a role in chord recruitment.
           In some embodiments of the invention, at least a portion of the tension generated
   on the chords through displacement by the arms 34 during deployment is maintained, in
 5 some deployment configurations, between two or more chords stretched in opposing
   directions. In Figures 31F, 31G, and 3H, one representative arm 34 is shown in three
   successive rotational positions where it interacts with at least two chords 90, 92. In
   Figure 31F, chord 90 has been captured during initial extension of arm 34 amongst the
   chords of the native mitral valve. It is slightly displaced from its resting position 91.
10 Chord 92 has not been captured, but is also displaced from its resting position 93.
           In the example, as arm 34 rotates through an angle 98 from the position of
   Figure 31F toward the position of Figure 31G, chord 92 is captured by arm 34 after
   chord 92 slips around hook portion 95 along a path relative to hook 95 indicated by
   arrow 94. As arm 34 continues to rotate toward the position of Figure 31G, chord 92
15 slips around projection 97 via a path indicated by arrow 96, and is captured again on an
   inner side of projection 97.
           At the position of the exemplary arm 34 shown in Figure 31G, chord 90 is
   displaced from undeflected position 91. Chord 92, in this example, is undeflected and
   has returned to undeflected position 93. If arm 34 is locked at this point-for example, by
20 further deployment of the prosthetic mitral valve frame-then chord 90 remains under
   tension and participates in valve frame fixation, while chord 92 is not under tension
   induced by valve frame deflection.
           In the exemplary deployment configuration shown, however, even if exemplary
   arm 34 is allowed to reach an equilibrium position without additional locking, at least
25 some tension in the captured chords will be retained. The position of Figure 31H, for
   example, reflects a rotational position assumed after rotating arm 34 through angle 99,
   which returns arm 34 partially from the position of Figure 31G toward the position of
   Figure 31F.
           At this position, both chords 90, 92 are deflected from their original positions
30 91, 93, in opposing directions. Because their deflections are in opposed directions, the
   net torque exerted by the two chords together is lower than the torque exerted by either
   alone, and is potentially zero. Nevertheless, each chord is under tension. In some

                                                44
   embodiments, this may serve, for example, to pull one or more leaflets of the native
   mitral valve into closer association with the mitral valve frame.
            Figure 311 exemplifies a similar sequence of positions to those just described
   with respect to Figures 31F-3H, with a larger portion of an exemplary ventricular part
 5 shown for clarity. Initial position of the ventricular part of the mitral valve frame 196
   and fully rotated position 198 are shown in dotted lines. Final position 197 is shown in
   solid lines. In initial position 196, an undeflected chord in position 191 is captured by
   hook 195. and protruding part 199 of hook 195. A chord in chord position 193 is not
   captured. During rotation from initial position 196 to fully-rotated position 198,
10 protruding part 199 transiently deflects a chord at chord position 193, then brushes past,
   so that the chord returns to its original position 193 and is captured within the region
   defined by the hook 195. In some embodiments, rotation to fully-rotated position 198 is
   under external force, such as from a rotating component of the catheter deployment
   system. Upon release of the external force, the displacement force of the chord captured
15 at 191 pulls the ventricular part back toward its first position. However, the chord
   captured at position 193, once the protruding part 199 of hook 195 contacts it, exerts an
   opposing force. The final ventricular part position 197 potentially represents a position
   of equilibrium between opposing forces. The force exerted by the chord captured at 191,
   and finally deflected to position 190, is counterbalanced by the force exerted by the
20 chord captured at 193 and finally deflected to position 192.
            It should be noted that the sequence of Figures 31F-31I shows that the
   development of tension in the chords which fixates the mitral valve frame may be
   enhanced by movements of the arms which work the chords into captured positions,
   with or without net rotation of the arms. In some embodiments of the invention, a
25 plurality of reciprocating rotation movements are applied in order to increase
   engagement of the chords so that they are recruited into fixation of the prosthetic valve.
            In the above descriptions, it is chords which are named as being recruited and
   tensioned by interactions with arms 34. It should be noted, however, that, optionally, the
   arms additionally or alternatively interact directly with one or more native valve
30 leaflets, to which the chords directly lead.

                                                 45
            Reference is now made to Figure 19, which is a schematic perspective
   illustration of portion of an exemplary catheter deployment system 50 having a rotation
   component 45 including a fork 70 attached to the prosthetic mitral valve 100, according
   to an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
 5          In some embodiments, for proper placement, rotation imparted to the ventricular
   part 32 during deployment is maintained until full deployment of the prosthetic mitral
   valve ensures that the leaflets of the native mitral valve 24 are captured. Potentially, this
   helps to ensure full participation of the chords in device fixation.
            In some embodiments fork 70 comprises a region of contact 73 with the
10 ventricular part 32 of the mitral valve 100. In some embodiments, fork 70 attaches to
   ventricular part 32, opens along with the expanding ventricular part, and maintains its
   attachment through the phase of atrial part deployment. In some embodiments, this
   association maintains the rotation of the ventricular part until deliberate detachment.
            In some embodiments of the invention, attachment is maintained until the atrial
15 part 35 is deployed. Figure 30E shows nosecone 62, atrial part retaining tube 53, and
   shank tube 64 all retracted 940 from atrial part 35. In some embodiments, atrial part 35
   self-expands 945 to its deployed configuration 953 as restraining parts are removed.
   Alternatively, atrial expansion may be driven by activating an expansion mechanism
   950 such as a balloon catheter.
20
            In some embodiments, the atrial part has elements 955 which attach to and/or
   interlock with 960 structural members of the ventricular part 32, for example, as herein
   described in relation to Figures 5A-7D, 22A-22C, and 25A-25B.
            In some embodiments, restraints on the expansion of the atrial part are
25 separately or partially removable: for example, advancement of just the nosecone 62,
   and/or only partial retraction of atrial part retaining tube 53. In some embodiments of
   the invention, partial removal of restraints on atrial part deployment results in functional
   deployment of the prosthetic valve mechanism in the still-beating heart, without
   attachment of the atrial part 35 to the ventricular part 32. Potentially, this allows a
30 longer period for deployment operations which manipulate the ventricular part; for
   example, to more thoroughly engage the arms with the chords. In some embodiments,

                                                46
   after the ventricular part is fully positioned, remaining restraints on the deployment of
   the atrial part 35 are removed.
            In some embodiments, separation of the prosthetic valve frame into a separate
   ventricular part 32 and atrial part 35 allows the parts to be packaged more compactly for
 5 delivery. For example the atrial part 35 can be packaged on a catheter deployment
   system distal to the ventricular part 32, so that the maximum diameter of the portion of
   the deployment system that enters the heart is not expanded by having the two parts
   overlap one another.
            In some embodiments, the atrial part 35 and ventricular part 32 are attached
10 prior to implantation; for example, as described herein in relation to Figures 5A-7D,
   26A-26D, 27A-27C, and 28A-28C.
       Control and Safety During Chord-capturingRotation
            Figure 12 depicts distal portions of a rotation component 45 incorporated in
   catheter deployment system 50. After deploying the ventricular part (not depicted here),
15 rotation initiated at a proximal end of the rotation component 45 induces rotation of at
   least the ventricular part around the mitral valve axis. In some embodiments of the
   invention, rotation component 45 includes a sensor measuring the torque force being
   applied to chords and leaflets. In some embodiments, rotation component 45 includes
   indexes of the rotation angle 46 and/or torque force 29 being applied. In some
20 embodiments, the rotation angle and torque force are predetermined by the design of the
   rotation component. In some embodiments, rotation itself is induced by direct
   manipulation of a rotating component (for example, a proximal end of rotation
   component 45). In some embodiments, rotation is induced by triggered coupling of an
   internal actuation energy source, for example, a tensioned spring, to rotation component
25 45.   Optionally, rotation to the preset angle occurs automatically when the operator
   performs a single triggering operation, such as pressing a button.
            Reference is now made to Figures 23A-23D. which are schematic sectional
   views showing tissue safety mechanism 700, comprised in rotation component 45,
   according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention.
30          In some embodiments of the invention, a tissue safety mechanism 700 is
   provided which transmits force only below a preset threshold. To protect against
   damage to tissue during deployment, it is potentially an advantage to provide a clutch

                                                 47
   mechanism which acts as a stopper to prevent the rotational force applied during capture
   of the valve chords from exceeding a predetermined limit.
           In some embodiments, force exerted above the threshold results in an internal
   slippage of the rotation component mechanism. In some embodiments, shaft 705 of the
 5 rotation component 45 is coupled to the ventricular part 32 of, for example, Figure 19,
   with the result that shaft 705 and ventricular part 32 rotate together. Optionally,
   coupling is through fork 70. In some embodiments, the rotation of shaft 705 is initiated
   by rotation of twisting control 710, for example, at the hands of a surgeon performing
   the deployment operation.
10         In some embodiments of the invention, coupling between shaft 705 and twist
   control 710 is mediated through twist safety spring 720, and twist adaptor 730. Twist
   safety spring 720 is fixedly connected to a part of twist control 710, and moves with it
   at the connected region. In some embodiments, twist control 710 has an interior lumen.
   Optionally, the connected region is on the wall of this interior lumen. In some
15 embodiments, at least a portion of twist adaptor 730 occupies the interior lumen of twist
   control 710 along with twist safety spring 720. In some embodiments, twisting adaptor
   730 is fixedly and/or fittingly connected to shaft 705, for example by glue and/or a
   pressure fit. In some embodiments, twisting adaptor 730 surrounds a portion of the
   length of shaft 705.
20         In some embodiments, at least a portion of twist adaptor 730 contacts an unfixed
   portion 724 of twist safety spring 720. Optionally, unfixed spring portion 724 presses
   toward twist adaptor 730 due to the elasticity of the spring. Optionally, the unfixed
   portion 724 is the free end of the spring.
           At the region of contact, twist adaptor 730 further comprises a section of one or
25 more d6tentes, for example, ratchet teeth, 740. Optionally, the section of ratchet teeth,
   740 is curved. At least a part of unfixed spring portion 724 inserts in between at least
   one pair of teeth in the section of ratchet teeth 740, or optionally into the holding region
   of another detente structure such as a notch.
           In some embodiments of the invention, when twisting control 710 is rotated, a
30 force is transmitted to ratchet teeth section 740 through the contact with twist safety
   spring 720. If the forces acting to oppose the rotation of twist adaptor 730 are
   sufficiently small, then twist adaptor 730 also rotates. As a consequence, connected

                                                 48
   components including, for example, shaft 705, fork 70, and ventricular part 32, also
   rotate. During successful deployment, this is the rotation that brings the arms 34 into
   contact with valve chords 22, grasping them, and thereby producing tension which
   potentially assists in maintaining the position of the fully deployed implanted valve.
 5         In some embodiments of the invention, as rotation continues, the opposing force
   acting back toward twist adaptor 730 increases, for example until a good contact is
   made between the leaflet and the wall of the valve. In some embodiments, if rotation
   continues, exerting force beyond a certain required threshold, the opposing force is
   sufficient to cause slippage at the detente mechanism. The stretching force intended
10 may be, for example, 2 cNm, 5 cNm, 10 cNm, 15cNm, or any value in between, or a
   greater or lesser value, as determined to be appropriate for the conditions of
   deployment. In some embodiments, ratchet teeth section 740 ceases to follow the
   movement of twist safety spring 720. Instead, unfixed portion 724 of the spring rises
   from between the teeth of ratchet teeth section 740 (Figure 23D). When it has risen far
15 enough, the teeth no longer restrain the spring, and the spring slips along, for example,
   to the next pair of teeth. Optionally, this produces an audible click and/or tactile
   vibration. Optionally, ratchet teeth are set next to one another in series so that more than
   one slip position is provided.
           Potentially, the sound and/or feel of the slipping spring serve as a warning to the
20 surgeon that control force beyond the preset threshold has been supplied. Optionally, a
   stop is provided which is encountered during rotation at a preset angle corresponding to
   a target level of rotation. When the stop is encountered, additional rotation force is
   transmitted to the stop, and is not transmitted to elements of the catheter deployment
   system in proximity to the heart.
25         It should be noted that operation of the safety mechanism does not depend on all
   specifics of the above-described embodiment. For example, the insertion of the twist
   adaptor 730 into a lumen of the twist control 710 could be inverted so that the twist
   control 710 instead inserts into a lumen of the twist adaptor 730. Similarly, curved
   section of ratchet teeth could be convex, as shown, but could also be arranged along the
30 inner wall of a lumen. The location of the twist safety spring attachment is optionally on
   an outer wall of an inner component. In some embodiments, the twist safety spring is
   replaced by another mechanism which holds a position within a detente with a

                                               49
   calibrated force, for example, a spring-loaded probe tip. For embodiments which
   include this safety mechanism, these and other variations in structural detail are
   contemplated as potential embodiments of the invention.
       Ventricle Part Release
 5          Reference is now made to Figure 20, which is a schematic perspective
   illustration of an exemplary prong 71 of fork 70, including portions of the region of
   contact 73 with the ventricular part 32, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention. In order to complete surgical implantation of the prosthetic mitral valve, it is
   necessary to detach the catheter deployment system 50 from the implanted valve 965.
10          Fork 70 is a portion of rotation component 45. In the configuration shown, the
   fork 70 and ventricular part 32 are undergoing detachment after deployment.
            In some embodiments of the invention, locking sleeve 75 covers the region of
   contact 73 during deployment, keeping ventricular part locking element 78 enclosed
   together with prong locking element 80. While enclosed, the two locking elements 78,
15 80 are unable to disengage.
            In some embodiments, command wire 83 is connected to locking sleeve 75.
   When the command wire 83 is retracted by an operation on the distal handle of the
   catheter deployment system, the locking sleeve 75 retracts along with it. This removes
   the enclosure keeping the locking elements 78, 80 together. Optionally, fork prong 71 is
20 disposed to return radially to the center axis once freed, for example, because of its
   elastic properties. Optionally, a slight restraining force exerted by fork prong 71 is
   overcome at the time of release, and ventricular part 32 undergoes sufficient additional
   expansion to break the locking contact. Optionally, the locking contact is broken when
   the proximal end 51 is returned to position in preparation for withdrawing the catheter
25 deployment system.
            Reference is now made to Figures 21A-21B, which are schematic perspective
   illustrations of an exemplary prong 171 of fork 170, including portions of the region of
   contact 173 with the ventricular part 32, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   invention. In some embodiments, fork 170 is a portion of rotation component 45, and is
30 an alternative embodiment of the functions, including rotation and detachment
   performed by fork 70. In the configuration shown, the fork 170 and ventricular part 32
   are still attached after deployment.

                                                50
            In some embodiments of the invention, ventricular part locking element 172
   comprises an extension which inserts through an aperture 174 in prong locking element
   175. Command wire 83 in turn passes through an aperture 176 in ventricular part
   locking element 172, on the side of locking element 172 which has passed through the
 5 aperture. The two locking elements are thereby held in association.
            When the command wire 83 is retracted by an operation on the distal handle of
   the catheter deployment system 50, it is removed from ventricular part locking element
   aperture 176. The locking elements 172, 175, are then free to separate. Separation itself
   occurs when the elements move apart, for example, due to one of the mechanisms
10 discussed in relation to locking elements 78, 80.
       Exemplary FixationMechanisms
            Reference is now made to Figure 14, which is a schematic diagram of
   exemplary valve 100 partially deployed in the native mitral valve annulus, in an
   isometric view from the left ventricle, according to an exemplary embodiment of the
15 invention.
            Ventricle part 132 is in the expanded state. In an exemplary embodiment, valve
   100 has been rotated so that arms 134 grab chords 204. Optionally, the rotation is
   sufficient to apply a rotational torque and/or tension to chords 204 that is strong enough
   to move mitral leaflets 206 around atrial part 135.
20          In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, the rotation applied to valve 100
   is, for example, about 10 degrees, about 20 degrees, about 30 degrees, about 60 degrees,
   about 120 degrees, or other smaller, intermediate or larger degrees of rotation.
   Optionally, the rotation is related to the size of the mitral valve annulus. For example,
   for an annulus with a relatively larger diameter (for example, dilated annulus, in an
25 adult as opposed to a child) relatively more rotation is used than for a smaller diameter
   annulus. Optionally, the rotation is determined considering the size of the heart, the size
   of the valve, the slack of the chords, and/or the desired force of sealing.
            Reference is now made to Figure 15A, which is a schematic diagram of
   exemplary valve 100 as in the partially deployed state of Figure 14, in an isometric
30 view from the left atrium, according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In
   an exemplary embodiment, the rotation applied to valve 100 is sufficient to bring
   anterior leaflet 208 and posterior leaflet 210 in close contact with atrial part 135.

                                                  51
   Optionally, the twisting is sufficient to overlap an edge of leaflet 208 and/or 210 with
   the surface of the opposite leaflet. Optionally, leaflets 208 and 210 form a seal against
   each other and/or together with annular part 135 so that regurgitation from the left
   ventricle to the left atrium during systole is not clinically significant.
 5          In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, the twisting motion of valve 100
   is sufficient to seal commissural points 212A and 212B (at junction of anterior leaflet
   208 and posterior leaflet 206 at the surrounding fibrous ring). Optionally, the edge of
   leaflet 208 and/or 206 near commissural point 212A or 212B overlaps the surface of the
   opposite leaflet. Potentially, the sealing at the commissural points is good enough so
10 that regurgitation is not clinically significant.
            Reference is now made to Figure 15B, which is a schematic diagram showing
   the configuration of chords 204 in Figure 15A due to the grabbing by arms 134 and the
   twisting motion (for example, as would be viewed if leaflets 208 and 210 were
   transparent), according to an exemplary embodiment of the invention. Optionally, arms
15 134 grab chords 204 and valve 100 is turned sufficiently to form a spiral formation of
   chords 204 around valve 100.
            Figure 15C is a schematic diagram of figure i5A, showing the overlap of
   posterior and anterior leaflets over each other due to the twisting motion, in accordance
   with an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In an exemplary embodiment, anterior
20 leaflet 402 overlaps posterior leaflet 404. Alternatively, posterior leaflet 404 overlaps
   anterior leaflet 402. Alternatively, some of the posterior leaflet 404 overlaps some of
   anterior leaflet 402 and some of anterior leaflet 402 overlaps some of posterior leaflet
   404.
            Figure 15D       is a schematic     diagram of figure       15A,  showing another
25 representation of the overlap of posterior and anterior leaflets over themselves due to
   the twisting motion, in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the invention. In
   an exemplary embodiment anterior leaflet overlaps with itself (overlapping lines shown
   as 410), for example, like an accordion. Optionally or additionally, the posterior leaflet
   overlaps with itself (overlapping lines shown as 412).
30          In some embodiments, after native chords 22 and leaflets are engaged with arms,
   a portion of a distal end of the catheter deployment system (not depicted) is pulled

                                                 52
   proximally and/or pushed distally so that an atrial-part placement component expands to
   a properly deployed position inside left atrium 25.
            Figure 16 illustrates valve 100 in the fully deployed state inside the native mitral
   valve annulus, in an isometric view from the left atrium.
 5          In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, expansion of the annular part 135
   traps and/or clamps leaflets 206 and/or 208 between annular part 135 and ventricular
   part 132. In some embodiments, the compression forces applied against leaflets 206
   and/or 208 between atrial part 135 and/or ventricular part 132 are sufficient to maintain
   the twisted valve 100 state. For example, arms 134 grab chords 204 and apply tension to
10 close leaflets 206 and/or 208 around prosthetic valve 100. In some embodiments, some
   spring back is allowed.
            Reference is now made to Figures 22A-22C, which are schematic perspective
   views showing exemplary barbed projections 610, 620 acting as attachment elements
   for the ventricular part 32 and atrial part 35 of the valve 100, according to an exemplary
15 embodiment of the invention. Potentially, barbed projections offer an advantage for
   locking leaflets into place, and/or locking frame parts to each other.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, valve 100 comprises one or more
   piercing attachment elements 610, 620 which are projections adapted to pierce the
   leaflets. In some embodiments of the invention, piercing elements 610, 620 serve to
20 help retain captured native valve leaflets 205.
            In Figure 22A, piercing element 610 is shown projecting upward from an arm 34
   of ventricular part 32 and penetrating into a schematic representation of a native valve
   leaflet 205. Figure 22B shows the obverse side of the leaflet, to which ventricular part
   piercing element 610 has penetrated. By penetrating the leaflet, piercing element 610
25 provides additional anchoring stability to the prosthetic mitral valve which has also
   captured the leaflet between the atrial and ventricular parts.
            Optionally, the placement of piercing elements is chosen so that they at least
   partially interlock the atrial and ventricular parts. For example, piercing element 610 in
   Figure 22B is shown penetrating near to the crux 640 of two adjoining fenestrations 630
30 of the atrial part 32. This position potentially serves to restrain relative upward
   movement of the atrial part 35 compared to the ventricular part 32.

                                                53
            In Figure 22C, the tips of atrial piercing elements 620 are shown without a
   leaflet, projecting from atrial part 35 downward. This illustrates, for example, that the
   same mechanism of barbed projections for stabilization is adaptable for use on both
   parts of the prosthetic mitral valve anchoring components.
 5          Alternatively or additionally, the piercing elements 610, 620 are adapted to
   pierce surrounding tissues, for example, the fibrous ring and/or the atrium wall.
   Potentially, the piercing elements serve to anchor the prosthetic mitral valve in the
   supporting tissue. Not necessarily limiting examples of piercing elements include:
   barbs, hooks, and/or needles. Optionally, atrial part 135 comprises          the piercing
10 elements. Alternatively or additionally, ventricular part 132 comprises the piercing
   elements. Optionally or additionally, the attachment elements 610, 620 pierce into the
   leaflets 205 and/or tissues of and surrounding the native mitral valve aperture upon
   expansion. Potentially, the piercing elements help maintain the position of valve 100.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the invention, prosthetic leaflets 300 start to
15 function upon deployment of valve 100. A potential advantage is that the heart does not
   need to be stopped, and can continue beating during the procedure.
       Completion of Deployment
            After deployment and detachment from the prosthetic mitral heart valve, the
   catheter deployment system 50 is withdrawn from heart 970. Optionally, the incision is
20 closed 975 in the usual way; optionally the operation is ended 980 in the usual way. As
   illustrated in Figure 11, prosthetic mitral valve 10 is left deployed in the heart,
   surrounding native mitral valve annulus 20, grasping chords 23 and leaflets, and
   securing tissue surrounding annulus from above with atrial part 35 and from below with
   ventricular part 32.
25          Once the operation is complete, deployed prosthetic mitral valve functions as a
   native mitral valve. In some embodiments of the invention, the mechanical properties of
   the atrial part and ventricular part allow dynamic conformation to the shape and size of
   mitral valve annulus and the atrial walls, as these change during the beating of the heart.
   For example, the parts adopt a smaller configuration when the mitral valve annulus
30 compresses, and spring back to a larger-sized configuration when the mitral valve
   annulus relaxes.

                                                54
            Reference is now made to Figures 24A-24B, which are schematic perspective
   views showing spring adaptor section 800, comprised in atrial part 35, according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the invention. Spring adaptor section 800 illustrates a design
   element which other embodiments of the invention having frames with different-shaped
 5 members can also incorporate. For example, embodiments of the atrial part of Figure
   5A are adaptable to have a spring adaptor section inserted at the commissural points
   between any two of the three sinusoidal levels shown.
            In some embodiments of the invention, one or more spring adaptor sections 800
   are provided, for example, at intervals around a circumference of atrial part 35 of
10 prosthetic mitral valve 100. Upon a receiving force, for example, due to pressing of an
   atrial wall on an outer circumference of atrial part 35, spring adaptor section 800
   buckles and compresses. Buckling is promoted, for example, by manufacturing the
   section with a preset bend, and/or a thinner region along its length. Potentially, this
   reduces further buildup of forces between the atrial wall and atrial part 35. Potentially,
15 this allows the atrial wall to move more nearly according to its natural cycle of motions.
   Potentially, when forces on atrial part 35 again relax, the restorative force of spring
   adaptor section 800 extends the spring again. Potentially, this helps maintain a holding
   contact that assists in maintaining the position of the prosthetic mitral valve throughout
   the heartbeat cycle.
20     Exemplary Deployment Options
            In some embodiments discussed, for example, with reference to Figures2A-7B,
   and Figures 13A-13F, the atrial part and ventricular part are self-expanding from a
   delivery configuration to a deployed configuration. In some embodiments, the parts of a
   prosthetic mitral valve as described herein are expandable from a delivery configuration
25 to a deployed configuration by application of a radially outwards force to an inner
   surface thereof.
            Optionally, during the operation in which the prosthetic mitral valve is deployed,
   the beating of the heart in which the prosthetic mitral valve is deployed is not stopped.
   With this option, a TEE probe, for example, is placed and used in the usual way to
30 observe the left ventricular long axis of the heart throughout the operation, for guiding
   positioning and verifying results.

                                                 55
           Optionally, access to the left ventricular apex of the heart is gained under
   general anesthesia through a left anterolateral mini-thoractomoy in the fifth intercostal
   space, with horizontal opening of the pericardium and placement of stay sutures for
   exposure. In an exemplary sequence of steps for gaining access to the heart, a retractor
 5 is placed, exposing the heart apex. Two rows of 3-0 polypropylene pledgeted felt purse
   string sutures are placed around the left ventricular apex creating a 3-4 cm diameter area
   exposed for access. A 4000 U heparin bolus is administered intravenously.
           In some embodiments of the method for valve deployment described above, a
   crimping tool and a video camera are advanced through the delivery lumen of the
10 catheter deployment system to assist in deploying a prosthetic mitral valve. In some
   embodiments, crimping tools, video cameras, and/or other devices for assisting in
   deploying a prosthetic mitral valve as described herein are brought to a desired location
   through one or more different access routes. For example, an assisting device may be
   brought through the vasculature and into the heart through the aorta using a suitable
15 catheter.
           In some of the embodiments described above, a prosthetic mitral valve includes
   a valve mechanism that is not subject to prolapse of leaflets into the left atrium.
   Prolapse may be prevented, for example, to the particular construction of the valve
   mechanism and/or the presence of a prolapse-preventing component.
20         Some of the embodiments described above are also applicable to deployment in
   place of a native mammalian tricuspid valve, with suitable selection of component
   dimensions. Such a tricuspid valve may be implanted alone; or, for example, some
   embodiments described herein may be used to provide both a prosthetic mitral valve
   and a separate prosthetic tricuspid valve in the same heart.
25         In some of the embodiments described above, the teachings herein are
   implemented to provide a prosthetic heart valve that is a prosthetic mitral valve, having
   features rendering the prosthetic heart valve exceptionally useful for overcoming
   challenges in the field of prosthetic mitral valve deployment.
           Any suitable combination of materials and methods of manufacture may be used
30 in implementing the teachings herein. For example, a person having ordinary skill in the
   art of prosthetic cardiac valves is able to select suitable materials and methods of

                                                 56
   manufacture.    Selection is possible, for example, with reference to commercially
   available prosthetic cardiac valves.
           The nature and dimensions of the various parts and components of the prosthetic
   mitral valves    and the catheter deployment systems as described herein can be
 5 determined by a person having ordinary skill in the art, making reference to the
   embodiments      described   herein,   and/or   by   making    reference,   without   undue
   experimentation,     to   commercially-available     transapical   delivery   devices    and
   accompanying prosthetic cardiac valves, especially prosthetic mitral valves, for example
   the PerimountTM Magna prosthetic mitral heart valve by Edwards Lifesciences LLC
10 (Irvine, California, USA).
           As used herein the term "about" refers to 10%
           The terms "comprises", "comprising", "includes", "including", "having" and
   their conjugates mean "including but not limited to".
           The term "consisting of' means "including and limited to".
15         The term "consisting essentially of' means that the composition, method or
   structure may include additional ingredients,        steps and/or parts, but only if the
   additional ingredients, steps and/or parts do not materially alter the basic and novel
   characteristics of the claimed composition, method or structure.
           As used herein, the singular form "a", "an" and "the" include plural references
20 unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example, the term "a compound" or
   "at least one compound" may include a plurality of compounds, including mixtures
   thereof.
           Throughout this application, various embodiments of this invention may be
   presented in a range format. It should be understood that the description in range format
25 is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an inflexible
   limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the description of a range should
   be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as well as
   individual numerical values within that range. For example, description of a range such
   as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed subranges such as
30 from I to 3, from 1 to 4, from 1 to 5, from 2 to 4, from 2 to 6, from 3 to 6 etc., as well as

                                                57
   individual numbers within that range, for example, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. This applies
   regardless of the breadth of the range.
           Whenever a numerical range is indicated herein, it is meant to include any cited
   numeral (fractional or integral) within the indicated range. The phrases "ranging/ranges
 5 between" a first indicate number and a second indicate number and "ranging/ranges
   from" a first indicate number "to" a second indicate number are used herein
   interchangeably and are meant to include the first and second indicated numbers and all
   the fractional and integral numerals therebetween.
           It is appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity,
10 described in the context of separate embodiments, may also be provided in combination
   in a single embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention, which are, for
   brevity, described in the context of a single embodiment, may also be provided
   separately or in any suitable subcombination or as suitable in any other described
   embodiment of the invention. Certain features described in the context of various
15 embodiments are not to be considered essential features of those embodiments, unless
   the embodiment is inoperative without those elements.
           Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific
   embodiments thereof, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications and variations
   will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, it is intended to embrace all
20 such alternatives, modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended
   claims.
           Citation or identification of any reference in this application shall not be
   construed as an admission that such reference is available as prior art to the invention.
           Section headings are used herein to ease understanding of the specification and
25 should not be construed as necessarily limiting.

                                            58
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A prosthetic mitral valve suitable to be deployed in a mammalian heart,
   comprising:
        a valve frame;
        a frame aperture defined by the valve frame, said frame aperture sized to:
              circumferentially enclose a prosthetic heart valve mechanism and
              fit within the mitral valve aperture between the heart left ventricle and
              atrium; and
        at least one arm attached to the valve frame on the ventricular side of said
        frame aperture;
        said at least one arm having a chord receiving surface sized and shaped to
        deploy among a region of chords of the native mitral valve and deflect the
        shape of chords contacted, pulling least one native mitral valve leaflet at least
        partially around said frame aperture.
2. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 1, wherein said chord receiving surface defines
   a chord capturing region, is shaped to guide encountered chords into said capturing
   region, and is shaped to bar chords entering said capturing region from exiting.
3. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 2, wherein said chord receiving surface is
   oriented with respect to a rotation direction and has at least one slope that guides
   chords encountered while moving in said rotation direction into said chord
   capturing region.
4. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 3, wherein said chord receiving surface is
   oriented with respect to a rotation direction and has at least one hooked portion that
   prevents chords moving in opposition to said rotation direction from exiting said
   chord capturing region.
5. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-4, wherein said at least one
   native mitral valve leaflet prevents the flow of blood between itself and said valve
   frame, at least in the direction passing from the left ventricle to the left atrium.

                                             59
6.  The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-5, wherein a portion of said
    valve frame on the atrial side of said frame aperture is too wide to pass through the
    mitral valve aperture.
7.  The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-6, wherein said deflection of the
    shape of at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing
    force generated by contact of the frame with tissue of the heart on the atrial side of
    said frame aperture.
8.  The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-7, wherein said deflection of the
    shape of at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing
    force generated by contact of the frame with tissue of the heart on the ventricular
    side of said frame aperture.
9.  The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-8, wherein said deflection of the
    shape of at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing
    force generated by contact of the frame with at least one native mitral valve leaflet.
10. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-9, wherein said deflection of the
    shape of at least one chord is maintained after deployment at least by opposing
    force generated by contact of the frame with at least one other chord which it
    deflects the shape of.
11. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-10, wherein said valve frame
    comprises at least two metal parts secured to one another by at least one suture.
12. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-9, wherein said frame is in a
    compact configuration upon delivery to the heart, and expands at least radially
    during deployment.
13. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 12, wherein said frame at least partially in a
    compact configuration is at least partially crimped.
14. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 12-13, wherein said valve frame in
    said compact configuration is less than 13 mm across at its largest profile diameter.

                                             60
15. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 12-14, wherein said valve frame in
    said compact configuration comprises least two mutually unattached parts.
16. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 15, wherein one of said at least two mutually
    unattached parts comprises said at least one arm, and another of said at least two
    mutually unattached parts defines said frame aperture when deployed.
17. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 15-16, wherein said at least two
    unattached parts are not overlapping in said compact configuration.
18. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 15-17, wherein said at least two
    unattached parts are at least partially radially concentric in the deployed
    configuration of said valve.
19. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 18, wherein one of said at least two partially
    radially concentric parts presses outwardly against the other so that the two said
    parts are constrained from moving over one another.
20. The prosthetic mitral valve any one of claims 12-19, wherein said at least radial
    expanding is at least partially actuated by application of a radially outwards force
    to an inner surface of said frame.
21. The prosthetic mitral valve any one of claims 12-19, wherein said at least radial
    expanding is at least partially self-actuated by said frame.
22. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 12-21, wherein said valve
    mechanism is held within said aperture of the frame, and, when the frame is
    deployed, restricts fluid flow through the frame aperture in the direction from said
    ventricular side to said atrial side.
23. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 22, wherein said valve mechanism comprises
    at least one prosthetic valve leaflet sized and positioned to restrict said fluid flow.
24. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 22-23, wherein said valve
    mechanism becomes functional to restrict said fluid flow while at least part of said
    valve frame remains in said compact configuration.

                                              61
25. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-23, wherein said frame conforms
    to the shape of the beating heart without restricting its contractions.
26. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1-25, wherein said native mitral
    valve leaflet is held between at least one member of said valve frame on both the
    ventricular and the atrial side of said native mitral valve leaflet.
27. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 1, wherein at least one deployed arm of said at
    least one arm comprises:
          a basal region of attachment to said valve frame; and
          an extended member arising therefrom.
28. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 1, wherein at least one deployed arm of said at
    least one arms comprises:
          a plurality of separated basal regions of attachment to said valve frame;
          a plurality of extended members arising therefrom and extending alongside
          one another;
          said members being joined at a region distal to said basal regions of
          attachment.
29. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 1 and 27-28, wherein at least one
    deployed arm of said at least one arms extends radially from said valve frame in its
    position.
30. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 29, wherein said deployed arm has a concavely
    rounded leading edge facing in a circumferential direction.
31. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 29-30, wherein said concavely
    rounded leading edge curves through at least 90 degrees.
32. The prosthetic mitral valve of any one of claims 29-30, wherein said concavely
    rounded leading edge curves through at least 180 degrees.

                                             62
33. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 1, wherein at least one deployed arm of said at
    least one arms comprises a branch point from which at least three member
    segments lead.
34. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 33, wherein at least one of said member
    segments has a free end which projects toward the base of said deployed arm from
    said branch point.
35. The prosthetic mitral valve of claim 34, wherein said free end of said basally
    projecting member segment is within 5 mm of said branch point.
36. A catheter deployment system for deploying a prosthetic mitral valve comprising:
          a distal end with a central axis;
          a prosthetic mitral valve in a compact configuration disposed around said
          central axis;
          said prosthetic valve including at least a ventricular frame part; and
          a deployment clamp attached to the ventricular part, the deployment clamp
         being actuatable to induce rotation at least in said ventricular frame part.
37. The catheter deployment system of claim 36, comprising:
          a rotatable shaft; and
          a rotation actuator, coupled to the shaft at a distal end;
          said shaft being coupled at a distal end to said deployment clamp.
38. The catheter deployment system of any one of claims 36-37, wherein the
    deployment clamp comprises at least one prong connected at the prong end to said
    ventricular frame part.
39. The catheter deployment system of any one of claims 36-38, wherein said
    deployment clamp comprises at least one command wire in threaded contact with
    said ventricular frame part.

                                              63
40. The catheter deployment system of claim 39, wherein withdrawal of the at least
    one command wire from contact with the ventricular frame part releases said
    ventricular frame part.
41. The catheter deployment system of any one of claims 36-38, wherein said
    deployment clamp comprises at least one sleeve containing at least a portion of
    said ventricular frame part.
42. The catheter deployment system of claim 41, wherein said deployment clamp
    comprises at least one command wire connected to said at least one sleeve; and a
    relative motion of said command wire retracts the sleeve from over said contained
    portion of said ventricular frame part releases said ventricular frame part.
43. The catheter deployment system of claim 37, wherein:
          a coupling mechanism couples said shaft to said rotation actuator;
          said coupling mechanism comprises a catch member and a detente;
          said catch member being caught by the detente; and
          one of said catch member and said detente being fixedly coupled to the
          rotation actuator, and the other of said catch member and said detente being
          fixedly coupled to said shaft.
44. The catheter deployment system of claim 43, wherein said catch is removed from
    capture by said detente upon said rotation actuator exerting a torque on said
    coupling mechanism which exceeds a predetermined threshold.
45. A method of deploying a prosthetic mitral heart valve in a mammalian heart
    comprising:
          inserting a distal end of a prosthetic mitral heart valve catheter deployment
          system into the left heart ventricle; and
          extending arms attached to the prosthetic mitral valve into one or more regions
          occupied by chords of the native mitral valve leaflets.
46. The method of claim 45, further comprising rotating the extended arms.

                                           64
47. The method of any one of claims 45-46, further comprising locking the extended
    arms into position.
48. A valve frame of a prosthetic mitral valve comprising:
        at least two metal parts;
        a suture wire; and
        a polymer insert;
        said parts being sutured together by said suture wire;
        said suture wire being held off the surface of said parts by said polymer insert.

                      <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                  35A
<removed-apn>
                                             10
               34                   35
              32
                                        34
              54
                                    20
                                         22
                    FIG. 1

                         <U+2704>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                         FIG. 2A
<removed-apn>
                                         35
               33
                                              38
              34
                                         32
                                              37
                                         30
                    31
                     31
                                         FIG. 2B
               34

                            <U+260E>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                                 FIG. 3A
<removed-apn>
                                             35
                                                           34
                 39                              32
                       36
                                                 FIG. 3B
                                            35        34
                                                      40
              32 39
                      36

                             <U+2702>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>                                       FIG. 3C
                                             35
<removed-apn>
                   34
              40
              32 39
                        36
                                                  FIG. 3D
                                                  34
                                                  36
               39
                        40

                                       <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
                                   <U+2706>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              33                   FIG. 4A
                                                            35
              38
                                                       32
                   37                                  36
                                                   FIG. 4B
                                                       35
                                                            38
                                                      36
                    37
                         39

                        <U+271D>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
              31
                   33                             FIG. 5A
<removed-apn>                                   35
                                        30
                   41
                                                  FIG. 5B
                                        34
                                             32
                                             36
                   42

                                 <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
                             <U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                     33
                                                   FIG. 6A
<removed-apn>                                            35
              38
                   37
                                         36
                                                   FIG. 6B
                                               43
                                              32
                        44
                                         42

                             <U+271F>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                                  FIG. 7A
                                                         35
<removed-apn>                                        37
                                                   42
                        32
                                             41
                                                  FIG. 7B
                                                        35
              37
                   32                        42
                        41

                                  <U+2720>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                       FIG. 7C
              32
                   41        42
                                                       FIG. 7D
                                                       37
                                                       32
                        41
                                                  42

                          <U+2721>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                          25
              24
                   26
                                               22
                         21
                        50
                        FIG. 8

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              24
         50                                        <U+2701>
                                                   <U+2702>
                                                   <U+2704>
FIG. 9             25

                              <U+2704>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              10                              20
              22
                   33
                         26
                    51   50
                         FIG. 10

                             <U+260E>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                       35
                   10
              22
                                                  20
                        26
                                             32
                        FIG. 11

                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               46
          45
                    29
                                                     <U+2702>
                                                     <U+2701>
                                                     <U+2702>
                                                     <U+2704>
                     50
FIG. 12

                       <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
                   <U+2706>
<removed-date>
                                           100
                                   135
                                           134
<removed-apn>
                                            132
              162 160A             160B
              FIG. 13A
                                            100
                  160A             134
                                   160B
                                          133
              FIG. 13B

                               <U+271D>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                                           100
                                                    135
                                                           134
<removed-apn>
                                                           132
                     160A                      162 160B
                            FIG. 13C
                                                          100
                                                    135
                                                          134
                                                          132
              160A
                       160B            162
                            FIG. 13D

                         <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
                     <U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                                     100
                                                    135
                                                     134
<removed-apn>                                         132
              162
                                            160B
                                     160A
              FIG. 13E
                                                   100
                                                   135
                                                   134
                                                   132
                                            160B
                                     160A
                    162
              FIG. 13F

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+261B>
                           <U+261E>
                           <U+270C>
                           <U+270D>
                           <U+270E>

                 <U+2720>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
                                 212B
<removed-apn>
                                        100
                                              135
                                                    210
                                                      212A
                                                          208
              FIG. 15A

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      <U+2704>
                                      <U+2721>
                                      <U+2701>
                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+2704>
FIG. 15B
                 100
           204

                <U+2704>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                100
                                      404
                                        402
              FIG. 15C

                <U+2704>   <U+2704>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                    100
                                          412
                                            410
              FIG. 15D

                            <U+2704>   <U+260E>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              100
                                                      208
               206                              300
                    132
                                                135
                          FIG. 16

                     <U+2704>   <U+2702>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              53
                                                         34
                                                   60
                                                        34
                                              60
                                         32
              10
                   FIG. 17

                   <U+2704>       <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
                       <U+2706>
<removed-date>
                               34
                                        65
                                                 FIG. 18A
<removed-apn>
                       67
               68 66
              32
                                       10
                                                 FIG. 18B
                                            32
                           22

                               <U+2704>   <U+271D>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              100
                                                         32
                                                    73
                                                   70
                         45
                    50
                              FIG. 19

                        <U+270F>   <U+2711>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>   32
                                            73
<removed-apn>
                                            78
                                                 75
                   80
                                                  83
                                                           71
                                                      45
                   FIG. 20

                                <U+270F>   <U+2714>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                    173                         45
              32          171 170
                                                          50
<removed-apn>
                            FIG. 21A
                    173
                   172    174                   175
                          176                        83
                            FIG. 21B

                                     <U+270F>   <U+2715>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                           610                                      100
                                     34
                                                               35
                      32                                            FIG. 22A
<removed-apn>
                                                         205
                           630
                             35
                             610
                               640
                                     630                            FIG. 22B
               205
                                  35
              620
                620                                                 FIG. 22C
                 32

                                               <U+2716>   <U+2717>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>                                                                       45
                                                                         700
                                70
<removed-apn>
                          FIG. 23A
                    700
                          710        740 720                   730       705
                                                                                70
                                        FIG. 23B
               700
                                                                     700
                           724 710                                             724 710
              720                                                  720
                                  740                                                    740
                                         730                   730
                     FIG. 23C                                              FIG. 23D

                      <U+2716>   <U+2718>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
              800                              100
                                               35
<removed-apn>
                    FIG. 24A
                                          35
              800
                    FIG. 24B

                                    <U+2716>   <U+270F>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                                                    100
                                                    35
              54
                                                          FIG. 25A
<removed-apn>
              52
              32
                             54
              52
                   32
                        35
                                  FIG. 25B

                                        <U+2716>   <U+2716>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                                                                 100
                                                        FIG. 26A
                                                            35              57
<removed-apn>
              55
                   61         32
                                   61                            FIG. 26B
                                                                       56
                                                        FIG. 26C
                                  55
                             56
                        61
                                                        FIG. 26D
                   56
                        55

                                       <U+2716>   <U+2713>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                           FIG. 27A
                   58 61
                                32
                           55
                                35
                                  61
                                                           FIG. 27B
               59
                            58
               55
                                                           FIG. 27C
              58
                                 59

                     <U+2716>   <U+2719>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>                                    35
<removed-apn>
                                          32
              55
                                 61
              30
                   FIG. 28A
                                     55        61
                   FIG. 28B

               <U+2716>   <U+271A>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                       55                32
                         74
                                   35   61
              FIG. 28C

                          <U+2716>   <U+2711>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                                              49 47        10
<removed-apn>
                                                                 35
                                                           34
              48
                        FIG. 29A              32
                                                            10
                   49
                                                      49
                        FIG. 29B

                                             <U+2716>   <U+2714>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                                   62
               50
                                   10                                           53
                                                                 10                       35
                                                                                32
                          63
                                                 50                        63
<removed-apn>
                                                                                     64
                                                                                     6
                                                                      71
                                             70
                   FIG. 30A                                                FIG. 30B
                                   34                            35
                                   32
                                    FIG. 30C
                                    62                            35
                              35
              64
                                        34                       32
                              32
                         71
                         70
                   FIG. 30D                                                FIG. 30E

                                        <U+2716>   <U+2715>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                          86
                   88           84
                                  82
                                                                      35
                                                                 68
                                                                           60
                               60
<removed-apn>
                                       FIG. 31B
                    87                                            34
                                                                       40
                               34                                      FIG. 31A
                         86
              88
                   87
                                       FIG. 31C                   76
                                                            77
               88
                86
                                87
                                                                      34
                                                                 FIG. 31E
                                       FIG. 31D

                                            <U+2713>   <U+2717>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
                        93             95
              91                       92
              90              94
<removed-apn>
                                                                FIG. 31F
                                  34
              90
                                  97
              91
                             96
              92,93
                                                                FIG. 31G
                             34
                              98
              90
               91
                                   93
                   92              99
                                                                FIG. 31H
                             34

                                  <U+2713>   <U+2718>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                      196
                                                            197
               195    192                                         198
                            193
                 34
               190          199
              191
                              FIG. 31I

                                                        <U+2713>   <U+270F>   <U+2712>   <U+2713>   <U+270F>
<removed-date>
              900                                           950
                       Initial Surgical
                                                  Activate                    no     Self-expanding
                        Preparation
                                                 Expansion
                                                                                      Atrial Part?
                                                 Mechanism
               905
                                                                                                        945
                                                                                        yes
<removed-apn>
                          Incision
                                                                                       Atrial Frame
              910                                                                       Expansion        953
                       Deployment
                                                        960
                      Device Insertion
                                                                              yes
               915                                                                    Self-attaching
                                               Self-attachment
                                                                                       V-A Parts?
                      Ventricular Part
                         Release                                                                         955
                                                                                         no
                                                                        925
               920                                                                     Deployment
                                                                                         Device
                                                                                                         965
                                          no          Activate                          Release
                      Self-expanding
                                                     Expansion
                     Ventricular Part?
                                                     Mechanism
                                yes                                                 Deployment Device
                                                                                         Removal          970
               930
                         Frame/Fin
                         Expansion
                                                                                         Incision
              935                                                                        Closure         975
                       Rotation and
                     Chord Recruitment
                                                                                      Final Surgical
              940                                                                         Tasks           980
                         Atrial Part
                          Release
                                                    FIG. 32

