                                              10
  ABSTRACT
          There is provided a cosmetic display unit, comprising, at least one chamber
  for holding a cosmetic applicator therein, the cosmetic applicator containing a
  quantity of cosmetic, and at least one display panel adjacent said chamber, the
5 display panel configured for application of said cosmetic thereon, wherein said
  cosmetic from said cosmetic applicator is applied to said display panel to indicate a
  colour of said cosmetic contained with the cosmetic applicator that is placed within
  the adjacent chamber.

   10
         V      30         22 16
                                        40
 18,1
           2428
                                        42
26                                  A16
                        18       32
      36
                   Figure 4

                                                1
                                COSMETIC DISPLAY ASSEMBLY
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to a display unit for a cosmetic and in particular
   to a display unit for lipstick applicators.
 5 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           There are numerous types of applicators used for the storage and application
   of cosmetics. These include lip markers, squeezable tube applicators, crayon-like
   applicators, wand shaped liquid applicators and pencils.
           A popular form of applicator currently in the market is the conventional
10 extendible lipstick applicator, having a case that includes a rotatable base, which
   upon rotation in one direction will cause the lipstick to protrude from the case and,
   upon rotation in the opposite direction will cause the lipstick to descend again into the
   case.
           As with many cosmetics, lipstick can come in a range of colours and shades,
15 and each company will have their own assortment of unique palettes for their specific
   brand or brands.
           A customer may purchase various colours and shades of the same type of
   cosmetic to be used in different settings or to complement their wardrobe.
   Accordingly, a person may have multiple applicators containing different unique
20 colours or shades of the same type of cosmetic, such as lipsticks.
           Some companies display the colour of the cosmetic contained within an
   applicator on the outside of the casing of the applicator. However, at times this does
   not provide an accurate representation of the cosmetic contained therein or may be
   of such a small size or have a contrasting background such that it is difficult to
25 assess the colour.
           Furthermore, some of the more expensive brands do not include a colour
   swatch on the outside of their applicators, since it is seen to detract from the
   aesthetics of the applicator.

                                                 2
            There are systems suggested in the prior art wherein a user applies a swatch
   of lipstick to a sheet of paper and then writes the brand name and colour details next
   to the swatch. In this way, they can use the sheet as a reference to find the required
   lipstick colour. However, the user may still need to sort through multiple applicators
 5 to locate the one containing the desired cosmetic.
             It should be appreciated that any discussion of the prior art throughout the
   specification is included solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
   invention and should in no way be considered as an admission that such prior art
   was widely known or formed part of the common general knowledge in the field as it
10 existed before the priority date of the application.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             In one aspect of the invention, but not necessarily the broadest or only
   aspect, there is proposed a display unit for cosmetic applicators, comprising,
   at least one chamber for holding a cosmetic applicator therein, the cosmetic
15 applicator containing a quantity of cosmetic, and
   at least one display panel adjacent said chamber, the display panel configured for
   application of said cosmetic thereon,
   wherein said cosmetic from said cosmetic applicator is applied to said display panel
   to indicate a colour of said cosmetic contained with the cosmetic applicator that is
20 placed within the adjacent chamber.
            Preferably, the display unit includes a number of chambers, each having a
   respective adjacent display panel, wherein each chamber is configured to hold a
   respective cosmetic applicator containing a quantity of cosmetic therein.
            The cosmetic may be of a different colour or shade to each of the other
25 cosmetics within respective cosmetic applicators held within different chambers of
   the display unit.
            Preferably, each chamber is sidewardly open and includes an aperture
   through which the respective cosmetic applicator is able to pass.
             In one form, each chamber is generally horizontally extending and includes a
30 floor that slopes down away from the aperture. In this way, the cosmetic applicator

                                                3
   has a tendency to slide towards a rear of the chamber to inhibit it from become
   displaced from within the chamber.
           Preferably, all of the chambers of said display unit are uniform and the
   respective longitudinal axis of the chambers are parallel.
 5         In another form, the display unit may include chambers of different sizes to
   hold different types of cosmetic applicators and/or the longitudinal axis of at least
   some of the chambers are oblique.
           Each chamber may share a wall, floor and/or roof with an adjacent chamber
   or chambers.
10         In one form the display unit includes a plurality of columns of chambers,
   wherein each column includes at least two chambers, with display panels located
   intermediate or adjacent the columns of chambers. A display panel is positioned
   adjacent each of the respective chambers to be used to indicate the cosmetic
   contained within a cosmetic applicator held within each of the respective chambers.
15         In one form, a transparent removable cover is configured to overlay or protect
   each of the display panels. Each of the display panels may including a separate
   transparent removable cover that extends thereover, or the transparent removable
   cover may extend over a number of display panels. The cover may be clipped over
   the display panel/s or may be hingedly connected to the display unit wherein it can
20 be pivoted to cover or reveal the display panel/s.
           In one form, a transparent removable cover may extend over a column of
   display panels, wherein the display unit comprises a plurality of transparent
   removable covers.
           The display panel may be constructed from acrylic, which has been surface
25 abraded or modified. The display panel may be ivory in colour or another suitable
   colour.
            In another aspect of the invention there is proposed a method of displaying
   cosmetics, including the steps of:
   providing a display unit, comprising, a plurality of generally horizontal chambers for
30 holding a respective cosmetic applicator therein, each cosmetic applicator containing

                                                4
   a quantity of a cosmetic, and a display panel adjacent each of said chambers, each
   display panel configured for displaying a respective cosmetic thereon;
   applying a first cosmetic from a first cosmetic applicator to a first display panel;
   placing the first cosmetic applicator within a chamber adjacent said first display
 5 panel, wherein the first display panel indicates the colour or shade of the first
   cosmetic;
   applying a second cosmetic from a second cosmetic applicator to a second display
   panel; and
   placing the second cosmetic applicator within a chamber adjacent said second
10 display panel, wherein the second display panel indicates the colour or shade of the
   second cosmetic.
            The above method including the further steps of applying a cosmetic to a
   respective display panel from each of the cosmetic applicators to be stored within the
   display unit and placing each of the cosmetic applicators within a respective chamber
15 that is positioned adjacent the display panel onto which the cosmetic was applied.
            The above method further including the steps of attaching a cover over the
   display panel or panels to protect the cosmetic applied thereto.
            The above method further including the steps of:
   removing said cover to thereby expose at least one of the display panels;
20 cleaning a cosmetic from the at least one of the display panels;
   applying a different cosmetic from a respective applicator to the at least one of the
   display panels; and
   placing or replacing a cosmetic applicator within a chamber adjacent said at least
   one of the display panels.
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part
   of this specification, illustrate an implementation of the invention and, together with
   the description and claims, serve to explain the advantages and principles of the
   invention. In the drawings,
30 Figure 1         is a perspective view of the cosmetic display unit of the present
                    invention;

                                                  5
   Figure 2        is a perspective view of the cosmetic display unit or Figure 1
                   illustrating cosmetic applicators located within respective chambers;
   Figure 3        is a side cross sectional view of the display unit of Figure 1 through A
                   A, illustrating the sloping floor;
 5 Figure 4        is a perspective view of the display unit of Figure 1, with one of the
                   covers removed, illustrating the display of different colours or shades
                   of cosmetics;
   Figure 5        is a front view of the display unit of Figure 1 with cover removed,
                   illustrating the application of a cosmetic from a first applicator onto a
10                 first display panel;
   Figure 6        is a front view of the display unit of Figure 5, illustrating the attachment
                   of the cover over the display panels;
   Figure 7        is a front view of the display unit of Figure 6, illustrating the placement
                   of the first applicator within a chamber adjacent the first display panel;
15                 and
   Figure 8        is a side view of the display unit of Figure 7, illustrating the position of
                   the first applicator within the chamber.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED AND EXEMPLIFIED
   EMBODIMENTS
20         Similar reference characters indicate corresponding parts throughout the
   drawings. Dimensions of certain parts shown in the drawings may have been
   modified and/or exaggerated for the purposes of clarity or illustration.
           Referring to the drawings for a more detailed description, there is illustrated a
   cosmetic display unit 10, demonstrating by way of an example, an arrangement in
25 which the principles of the present invention may be employed. The cosmetic display
   unit 10 is configured to display the colour or shade of different cosmetics 12
   contained within respective cosmetic applicators 14.
           Figure 1 illustrates the cosmetic display unit 10, which includes a number of
   chambers 16, for holding a respective cosmetic applicator 14 therein, and display
30 panels 18 adjacent each of the chambers 16.

                                                 6
           In the present embodiment, the display unit 10 includes five columns, 20a
   20e, wherein each column includes nine chambers 16 in a stacked configuration.
   The display panels 18 are positioned intermediate or on a side of the columns and
   are protected by respective covers 22. In the present embodiment, there are five
 5 columns 24a-24e, of display panels 18 each of which is protected by an individual
   cover 22. The reader should however appreciate that the number of chambers may
   be varied and the display unit 10 may be of a modular design to allow the expansion
   of the system.
           The display unit 10 further includes side panels 26, 28, a top panel 30, floor
10 panel 32 and rear panel 34. Portions of the side panels 26, 28 extend downwardly
   from the floor panel 32 to thereby form legs 36, 38.
           The chambers 16 are generally horizontal and each includes a sidewardly
   open aperture 40 for accessing the chamber to insert or withdraw a cosmetic
   applicator 14.
15         Each of the chambers 16 is configured to hold a respective cosmetic
   applicator 14, as illustrated in Figure 2. An individual display panel 18 is marked with
   the cosmetic 12 from the cosmetic applicator 14 that is to be stored within the
   adjacent chamber 16. In this way, the display unit 10 provides a representation of
   the colour or shade of the cosmetic 12 stored within the adjacent chamber 16.
20         The reader will appreciate that although in the present embodiment all the
   chambers 16 are of the same dimensions and used to store the same type of
   cosmetic applicators 14, in another possible embodiment the chambers 16 may be of
   different sizes and be used to store different types of cosmetic applicators 14.
           As illustrated in Figure 3, the floor panel 32 and intermediate floor panels 42
25 sloped downwardly away from a respective opening 40 towards the rear panel 34.
   This configuration means that the cosmetic applicators 14 will have a tendency to
   slide rearwardly into a respective chamber 16.
           Figure 4 illustrates the far-left cover 22 removed illustrating the position of the
   left-hand column 24a of display panels 18. The removal of the cover exposes the
30 display panels 18, which can then be marked with a cosmetic 12.

                                                7
            By way of example Figure 5 illustrates a cosmetic applicator 14a, in the form
   of a lipstick applicator, containing cosmetic 12a. A user is able to apply a layer of
   cosmetic 12a to the display panel 18a to thereby provide a visual indication as to the
   colour or shade of the lipstick. Once the cosmetic 12a has been applied the cover
 5 22a is clipped over the column 24a of display panels 18, as indicated in Figure 6, to
   thereby protect the layer of cosmetic 12a on the display panel 18a.
            The cosmetic applicator 14a can then be closed or a cap place thereon and it
   can then be inserted into chamber 16a as shown in Figure 7. The floor 42a of
   chamber 16a is sloped downwardly, as discussed above, to ensure the cosmetic
10 applicator 14a is correctly positioned within the chamber 16a, as shown in Figure 8.
            When a user wants to replace a cosmetic or when an applicator has been
   emptied the user can simply remove the cover 22a to thereby expose the relevant
   display panel 18a, clean the cosmetic 12a from the display panel 18a, apply a
   different cosmetic (12x) from a new applicator (14x) to the relevant display panel 18a
15 and then stow the new applicator (14x) within the adjacent chamber 16a. In this way,
   the display unit 10 can be used multiple times to display different cosmetics.
            The skilled addressee will now appreciate the advantages of the illustrated
   invention over the prior art. In one form the cosmetic display unit 10 provides a
   display means that can be used to indicate the colour or shade of a plurality of
20 cosmetics contained within respective applicators. The cosmetic display unit
   provides a storage means for different cosmetic applicators, while providing a visual
   indication as to the colour or shade of the cosmetic contained within a stored
   applicator.
            Various features of the invention have been particularly shown and described
25 in connection with the exemplified embodiments of the invention, however it must be
   understood that these particular arrangements merely illustrate the invention and it is
   not limited thereto. Accordingly, the invention can include various modifications,
   which fall within the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                              8
   CLAIMS
      1. A cosmetic display unit, comprising,
         at least one chamber for holding a cosmetic applicator therein, the cosmetic
         applicator containing a quantity of cosmetic, and
 5       at least one display panel adjacent said chamber, the display panel
         configured for application of said cosmetic thereon,
         wherein said cosmetic from said cosmetic applicator is applied to said display
         panel to indicate a colour of said cosmetic contained with the cosmetic
         applicator that is placed within the adjacent chamber.
10    2. The cosmetic display unit in accordance with claim 1, wherein the display unit
         includes a number of chambers, each having a respective adjacent display
         panel, wherein each chamber is configured to hold a respective cosmetic
         applicator containing a quantity of cosmetic therein.
      3. The cosmetic display unit in accordance with claim 2, wherein each of the
15       chambers is generally horizontally extending and is sidewardly open, each
         chamber includes an aperture through which a respective cosmetic applicator
         is able to pass and includes a floor that slopes down away from the aperture.
      4. The cosmetic display unit in accordance with claim 3, wherein the display
         panel is constructed substantially from an ivory coloured material.
20    5. A method of displaying cosmetics, including the steps of:
         providing a display unit, comprising, a plurality of generally horizontal
         chambers for holding a respective cosmetic applicator therein, each cosmetic
         applicator containing a quantity of a cosmetic, and a display panel adjacent
         each of said chambers, each display panel configured for displaying a
25       respective cosmetic thereon;
         applying a first cosmetic from a first cosmetic applicator to a first display
         panel;
         placing the first cosmetic applicator within a chamber adjacent said first
         display panel, wherein the first display panel indicates the colour or shade of
30       the first cosmetic;
         applying a second cosmetic from a second cosmetic applicator to a second
         display panel; and

                                  9
placing the second cosmetic applicator within a chamber adjacent said
second display panel, wherein the second display panel indicates the colour
or shade of the second cosmetic.

                                                1/8
<removed-date>
                                                                                     10
                         30
                                                            24d        24e
                                                      24c
                                   24a    24b
                                                                                      16
<removed-apn>
               22
                                                                                          28
              34
               26
                    A
                                                                                               38
                                                                         20d   20e
                                                                 20c                      A
                              18                 20b
                                         20a
                    36
                                                            32
                                          Figure 1

                                          2/8
<removed-date>
                    10
                                     30
                                                          18
                                                16
                                                               40
<removed-apn>
                                                               14
               22
                                                               28
              34
                                                               42
               26
                                                               38
                                                     32
                              18
                         36
                                   Figure 2

                         3/8
<removed-date>
              10                    16
                   30
<removed-apn>
                                                   40
                                                   22
              34
                                              42
                                         38
                               32
                        Figure 3

                                   4/8
<removed-date>
                    10
                              30         22
                                              16
                                                        40
<removed-apn>
                   18                                   14
                                                        28
              34
                                                        42
               26                                       16
                                                        38
                                     18            32
                         36
                               Figure 4

                                           5/8
<removed-date>
                                                           10
                               18a   16a         30
                    12a
<removed-apn>
              14a
                                                                28
                                                           42
                    26
                                                      32        38
                          36
                                      Figure 5

                                             6/8
<removed-date>
                                                               10
                              18a   16a              30
              22a
<removed-apn>
                    26
                                                                    28
                                                               42
                                                          32        38
                         36
                                          Figure 6

                                         7/8
<removed-date>
                                                         10
                         14a
                               16a             30
<removed-apn>
              18a
                                                              28
                                                         42
              26
                                                    32        38
                    36
                                     Figure 7

                          8/8
<removed-date>
              10                14a
                                      30
                   16a
                                                  40a
<removed-apn>
                                            42a
              34
                                                  22
                                           38
                                 32
                         Figure 8

