Abstract
Provided are methods, devices, and non-transitory computer readable storage mediums to
generate a weather timeline such as a succession of weather information on a continuous time
scale. For example, a timeline may include first weather information associated with a first
time in a first territorial location, second weather information associated with a second time,
and third weather information associated with a third time. At least one of the firs, second and
third weather information may comprise a forecasted weather value indicative of a
probability of having a specific type of precipitation at a specific intensity. A weather
timeline may follow a specific location (e.g. city, town, any region with a definite boundary),
a specific weather event (e.g. a specific precipitation type, a specific temperature level, a
specific wind intensity), and/or a specific user. A timeline may include data created by an
observer of the related weather information, where the data may be at least one of a picture, a
video or a comment inputted by the observer about the related weather information.

METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISPLAYING WEATHER INFORMATION ON A
                                      TIMELINE
              CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001]        This application claims priority of co-owned and co-invented U.S.
 Patent Application No. 13/856,923 filed on April 4, 2013, U.S. Patent
 Application No. 13/922,800, filed on June 20, 2013, U.S. Patent Application
 No. 13/947,331, filed on July 22, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No.
 61/839,675, filed on June 26, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No.
 61/835,626, filed on June 16, 2013, and U.S. Provisional Application No.
 61/836,713, filed on June 19, 2013,          the entire disclosures of which are
 hereby incorporated by reference.
                                   BACKGROUND
 (a) Field
  [0002]       The subject matter disclosed generally relates to methods for producing
 weather forecasts. More specifically, the subject matter relates to software
 applications for producing weather forecasts.
 (b) Related Prior Art
  [0003]       Conventional weather forecasting systems provide weather predictions
 twelve hours to a few days from the present time. If one needs a short-term forecast
 or a forecast with a fine time scale, the best information available is usually an hourly
 forecast for the day.
  [0004]       Conventional weather forecasts are average forecasts for the area for
 which they are generated. Thus, a forecast may be inaccurate for a precise location
 within this area, and even the present weather displayed for an area may differ from
  the actual weather for a precise location within this area.
                                            1

[0005]        Moreover, conventional weather forecasts are displayed on a time scale
that is too coarse to allow a user to know when a weather event takes place in a
precise location and time. Even for hourly conventional weather forecasts, it is
impossible for the user to know if the forecasted weather event lasts one hour or one
minute and, for the latter, at what time it takes place exactly within the hour.
[0006]        Furthermore, weather forecasts may be inaccurate and there is no way to
know it since there is no interaction with the users. Collaboration with the users is
thus needed.
[0007]        Therefore, there is a need in the market for the generation of short-term
weather forecasts, and a convenient and collaborative way to display these weather
forecasts is also needed.
                                        SUMMARY
[0008]        Provided herein are computer-implemented methods that may comprise
the following: identifying first weather information associated with a first time and a
first location; identifying second weather information associated with a second time;
identifying third weather information associated with a third time; identifying
observation data related to at least one of the first, second and third weather
information; and generating a first timeline, for display on a display device,
comprising information indicative of the first, second and third weather information.
[0009]        In some embodiments, the first, second and third times may be different
times. The first time may be a past time, the second time may be a current time, and
the third time may be a future time.
[0010]        In some embodiments, at least one of the first, second and third weather
information may comprise a forecasted weather value indicative of a probability of
having a first type of precipitation in the first location with a first intensity.
[0011]        In some embodiments, the first, second and third weather information
may be related to the first territorial location.
                                            2

[0012]        In some embodiments, the first, second and third weather information
may be related to a first weather event.
[0013]        In some embodiments, the first, second and third weather information
may be related to a first user.
[0014]        In some embodiments, the observation data may be at least one of a
picture, a video, and a comment input by a user related to at least one of the first,
second and third weather information.
[0015]        In some embodiments, the method may further comprise generating a
second timeline, for display on the display device with the first timeline, the second
timeline comprising information indicative of weather information associated with a
fourth time and a fifth time.
[00161        In some embodiments, the first timeline may be associated with the first
location and the second timeline is associated with a second location different from
the first location.
[0017]        In some embodiments, the first timeline may be associated with a first
weather event and the second timeline may be associated with a second weather event
different from the first weather event.
[0018]        In some embodiments, the first timeline may be associated with a first
user and the second timeline may be associated with a second user different from the
first user, and at least a portion of the observation data is received from the first and
second users.
[0019]        In some embodiments, the observation data is related to a weather event
comprising at least one of a tornado, a hurricane, a hail cloud, a heavy rain, a heavy
snow, a derecho, and a downburst.
[00201        Further, there may be a computer implemented method for displaying
weather information to a user at a given time, the weather information relating to a
given period and to a given territory, and including a succession of weather forecasts,
past weather observations, present weather observations or a user input.      The
method may comprise: receiving the past weather observations or the present weather
                                            3

observations; using the past weather observations or the present weather observations for
preparing forecasted weather values; using the forecasted weather values for generating the
succession of weather forecasts starting after the given time and for subsequent times
separated by a time increment; building a timeline displaying the weather information, the
timeline covering the given period, the given period both preceding and succeeding to the
given time; and receiving the user input that is added to the timeline.
[0021]          In some embodiments, the step of receiving the user input may comprise
receiving a picture, a video, a comment or a weather value.
[0022] In some embodiments, the step of receiving the user input may comprise receiving a
picture, a video, a comment or a weather value relating to a weather event, the weather event
comprising at least one of a tornado, a hurricane, a hail cloud, a heavy rain cloud, a derecho,
and a downburst.
[0023]          In some embodiments, there may be a device comprising one or more
processors, a memory storing computer instructions that can be executed by the one or more
processors such that the device is caused to perform any one or more of the methods
described above, when the instructions are executed. Further, there may be a non-transitory
computer-readable medium storing such instructions.
[0024]          Further, there may be a device that comprises one or more processors, a
memory storing instructions for the one or more processors, a communication module to
connect to a remote server over a communication network, and a display. When the
instructions are executed, the device may be caused to: receive, from the remote server, a
time line comprising a plurality of weather forecasts and observation data associated with at
least one of the plurality of weather forecasts, and cause, on the display, a display of at least a
part of the time line received from the remote server. The device may be a mobile device
such as, non-exclusively, a handheld device, a cellphone, a vehicle, etc.
[0024a]         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer-implemented method, comprising:
        receiving first weather information from a first device, the first weather information
                generated by the first device and associated with a first time, a first location,
                and a first weather event;
        receiving second weather information from a second device, the second weather
                information generated by the second device and associated with a second time;
                                                 4

       receiving third weather information from a third device, the third weather information
               generated by the third device and associated with a third time, a second
               location, and the first weather event;
       generating a first timeline based on the first weather information, the second weather
               information, and the third weather information;
       transmitting the first timeline to a user device;
       receiving observation data from the user device, the observation data related to the
               first weather event at the first location at the first time; and
       updating the first timeline based on the observation data.
[0024b]        According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
device for generating a weather timeline, the device comprising:
       one or more processors;
       a memory that stores instructions for the one or more processors; and
       a communication module to connect to a remote user device via a communication
               network, wherein when the one or more processors execute the instructions
               stored in the memory, the device is caused to:
               receive first weather information from a first device, the first weather
                       information generated by the first device and associated with a first
                       time, a first location, and a first weather event;
               receive second weather information from a second device, the second weather
                       information generated by the second device and associated with a
                       second time;
               receive third weather information from a third device, the third weather
                       information generated by the third device and associated with a third
                       time, a second location, and the first weather event;
               generate a first timeline based on the first weather information, the second
                       weather information, and the third weather information;
               transmit the first timeline to the remote user device;
               receive observation data from the remote user device, the observation data
                       related to the first weather event at the first location at the first time;
                       and
               update the first timeline based on the observation data.
                                                 4a

[0024c]         According to another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
system comprising a server and a remote device that is connected over a communication
network, wherein:
        the server comprises a computer and a non-transitory computer readable medium that
                stores a program causing the computer to execute a timeline generation
                process, the timeline generation process comprising:
                receivingfirst weather information from a first device, the first weather
                        information generated by the first device and associated with a first
                        time, a first location, and a first weather event;
                receiving second weather information from a second device, the second
                        weather information generated by the second device and associated
                        with a second time;
                receiving third weather information from a third device, the third weather
                        information generated by the third device and associated with a third
                        time, a second location, and the first weather event;
                generating a first timeline based on the first weather information, the second
                        weather information, and the third weather information;
                transmitting the first timeline to the remote device;
                receiving observation data from the remote device, the observation data
                        related to the first weather event at the first location at the first time;
                        and
                updating the first timeline based on the observation data, and
        the remote device comprises one or more processors, a display and a non-transitory
                memory storing a program causing the one or more processors to execute a
                process comprising:
                obtaining the first timeline from the server via the communication network;
                        and
                displaying at least a part of the first timeline on the display.
                                                  4b

                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0025]      Further features and advantages of the present disclosure will become
apparent from the following detailed description, taken in combination with the
appended drawings, in which:
[0026]       Figure 1 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a method and
system for displaying weather information on a timeline;
[0027]       Figure 2A is a block diagram showing an example of a suitable
nowcaster for implementing the embodiments;
[0028]       Figure 2B is a more detailed block diagram showing an example of a
suitable nowcaster for implementing the embodiments;
[0029]       Figure 2C is a more detailed block diagram showing another example of
a suitable nowcaster for implementing the embodiments;
[0030]       Figure 3A is a screenshot illustrating an example of a user interface on
which weather information is displayed on various timelines, according to an
embodiment;
[0031]       Figure 3B is a screenshot illustrating an example of a user interface on
which weather information is displayed on various timelines with which the user may
interact independently, according to an embodiment;
[0032]       Figure 4 is an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced;
[0033]       Figure 5 is an exemplary diagram illustrating a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be
practiced;
[0034]       Figure 6 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a timeline
displaying examples of weather information in one location, according to an
embodiment; and
                                          5

[0035]       Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating an example of a timeline
displaying examples of weather information relating to a weather event, according to
an embodiment.
[0036]       It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings, like features are
identified by like reference numerals.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0037]       The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and which show,
by way of illustration, specific embodiments by which the embodiments may be
practiced. The embodiments are also described so that the disclosure conveys the
scope of the claimed subject matter to those skilled in the art. The embodiments may,
however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited
to the embodiments set forth herein.
[0038]       Among other things, the present embodiments may be embodied as
methods or devices. Accordingly, the embodiments may take the form of an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, an embodiment combining
software and hardware aspects, etc. Furthermore, although the embodiments are
described with reference to a portable or handheld device, they may also be
implemented on desktops, laptops, tablet devices, or any computing device having
sufficient computing resources to implement the embodiments.
[0039]       Definitions
[0040]        In the present specification, the following terms are meant to be defined
as indicated below:
[0041]       Nowcasting is a contraction of "now" and "forecasting"; it refers to the
sets of techniques devised to make short-term forecasts, typically in the 0 to 12 hour
range.
[0042]       A nowcaster is a weather forecasting device which prepares very
short-term (e.g., one minute, five minutes., 15 minutes, 30 minutes, etc.) forecasts for
                                            6

a given territory, which is a very small region on Earth (5 meters, 10 meters, 50
meters, 100 meters, 500 meters, 1,000 meters, etc.).
[0043]        A weather value is a weather related quantity or attribute of any sort,
such as temperature, pressure, visibility, precipitation type and intensity,
accumulation, cloud cover, wind, etc.
[0044]        A forecasted weather value is a weather value that is predicted by the
nowcaster.
[0045]         A weather-related event is, for example, at least one event of hail, a wind
gust, lightning, a temperature change, etc.
[0046]         Precipitation type (PType) indicates the type of precipitation. Examples
of precipitation types include, but are not limited to, rain, snow, hail, freezing rain,
ice pellets, ice crystals, etc..
[00471         Precipitation rate (PRate) indicates the precipitation intensity. Examples
of precipitation rate values include, but are not limited to, no (i.e., none), light,
moderate, heavy, extreme. In an embodiment, the precipitation rate can also be
expressed as a range of values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to
heavy, or any combination of the above.
[0048]         Precipitation probability indicates the probability that precipitation
might occur. Examples of precipitation probability values include, but are not limited
to, no, unlikely, slight chance of, chance of, likely, very likely, and certain, etc.
[0049]         In an embodiment, the precipitation probability can also be expressed as
a range of values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to heavy.
Precipitation probability may also be expressed in terms of percentages; e.g., 0%,
25%, 50%, 75%, 100%, etc.; or ranges of percentages; e.g., 0% to 25%, 25% to 50%,
50% to 75%, 75% to 100%, etc. In an embodiment, the precipitation probability may
be taken from a probability distribution.
 [00501        Precipitation type and precipitation rate categories (PTypeRate): a
PTypeRate category is combination of precipitation type and precipitation rate to
                                            7

which may be associated a probability of occurrence for a given period to indicate the
possibility of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate.
 [0051]       A weather forecast is a set of one or more forecasted weather values that
are displayable to users.
 [0052]       A user is a person to whom or a machine to which a weather forecast is
forwarded.
 [0053]       A weather event is any measured or forecasted weather value, weather
forecast or weather source.
 [00541       Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a
computer-implemented method and system for displaying weather information on a
timeline. The weather forecast is generated by a short-term weather forecaster known
as system for generating nowcasts or nowcaster.
 [0055]      Displaying Weather Information on a Timeline
 [00561      Figure 1 illustrates a method and system for displaying weather
information using a timeline generator 100.
[00571       According to an embodiment, the nowcaster 200 may be used to prepare
nowcasts that may be displayed on the timeline 600 illustrated in Figure 6 using the
timeline generator 100. More precisely, the nowcaster 200 uses weather sources 201
to prepare forecasted weather values 120. The weather sources 201 may be
categorized as past weather observations and present weather observations. The past
weather observations may include archived weather observations.
[0058]       The timeline generator 100 uses weather events 115, which comprise at
least one of the following: past weather events 110, present weather events 111, and
future weather events 112. For past weather events 110 and present weather events
111, the weather sources 201 may be used directly. Since weather sources 201 may
comprise elements like measured weather values (such as temperature, precipitation
type and rate, pressure, weather radars and satellite observations, weather pictures
and videos, and other weather sources as detailed in Figure 2B, it is possible to
                                           8

display such elements to represent past weather events 110 and present weather
events 111 on the timeline 600 using the timeline generator 100.
[0059]        Future weather events 112 may be taken into account by the timeline
generator 100 by using the forecasted weather values 120. According to an
embodiment, the forecast of weather events or weather values may be depicted by
predefined pictures or videos.
[0060]        According to an embodiment, the forecasted weather values 120 may be
stored in an archive database 125. This archive database 125 may serve as a basis for
including past weather forecasts 113 among the weather events 115 in the timeline
generator 100.
[0061]        Once the timeline generator 100 has everything it needs to operate, it
sends the timeline 600 to the user 150. According to an embodiment, this sending
occurs through a communication network 254.
[0062]        According to an embodiment, there may be collaboration from the users
150 to improve the timeline 600 by sending information to the timeline generator 100.
The timeline generator 100 may comprise incorporating the user input 130 to the
timeline 600. For example, the user input 130 may comprise user picture or video 132,
a user comment 134, or a user weather observation 136. A user weather observation
136 may be a fact about the weather that helps to confirm or correct the weather
events 115 displayed in the timeline 600, such as a light rain at a specific location. In
that case, the user weather observations 136 may be sent to the nowcaster 200 as
additional input information for nowcasting. A user weather observation 136 may
also be an interesting fact such as the presence of a tornado or a lightning, which
could be incorporated directly in the present weather events 111 or the future weather
events 112 as weather emergencies that can be tracked. If dangerous or interesting
weather events are tracked, an alert could be sent to the user 150 via the timeline
generator 100.
[0063]        If the collaboration is used in the method, the additions made by the user
150 to the timeline generator 100 are incorporated into the timeline 600 that is
                                            9

displayed to the other users, so it is possible for one user 150 to see the pictures,
comments, or other user input 130 of other users. Optionally, the user 150 could
choose to have a timeline generator 100 that works specifically for a given city or
region, or for the current location, or over an area around this location with a given
radius and to follow a given weather event, as described hereinbelow.
[0064]        Figures 3A and 3B illustrate embodiments of the user interface
comprising the display of the timeline 600. As seen on Figure 3A, there may be a
plurality of timelines, each one with its own first time and its own time increment.
Figure 3B shows that a user 150 may interact with these timelines independently,
going forward or backward on a timeline, one timeline at a time.
[0065]        Figure 6 is a block diagram illustrating another embodiment of the
display of the timeline 600, including the display of various examples of weather
information 610 for the location 666. The weather information 610 may comprise a
succession of weather forecasts prepared by the nowcaster 200 which form the basis
of the future weather events 112 or of the past weather forecasts 113, user input 130
as described hereinabove, or weather sources 201 categorized in either present
weather observations or past weather observations.
[0066]        According to the embodiment presented in Figure 6, the timeline may
include weather information 610 relating to the times before, after or at a given time
625 at which the user 150 views the timeline 600. The given time 625 may be a
current time. The user 150 may also scroll down on the timeline to view older
weather information until the oldest weather information is reached, and scroll up to
view future weather events 112 until there is no further future weather event.
[0067]        The weather information 610 that is displayed may be pinned on the time
axis 630. The pinned weather information 610 may appear with a corresponding
display time 620.
[0068]        Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating another embodiment of the
display of the timeline 600, including the display of various examples of weather
information 610 for the weather event 777. Since the timeline 600 displays weather
                                           10

information 610 about a weather event 777, the timeline 600 may relate to more than
one location. The followed weather event 777 may be any event related to
precipitation, temperature or wind, such as a tornado, a hurricane, a hail or a wind
storm, a derecho storm, a downburst, etc. The weather information 610 may comprise
a succession of weather forecasts prepared by the nowcaster 200 and which form the
basis of the future weather events 112 or of the past weather forecasts 113, user input
130 as described hereinabove, or weather sources 201 categorized in either present
weather observations or past weather observations.
[0069]        According to the embodiment presented in Figure 7, the timeline may
include weather information relating to the times before, after or at a given time 625
at which the user 150 views the timeline 600. The given time 625 may be a current
time. The user 150 may also scroll down on the timeline to view older weather
information until the oldest weather information is reached, which corresponds to the
birth of the weather event, and scroll up to view future weather events 112 until there
is no further future weather event.
[0070]        The weather information 610 that is displayed may be pinned on the time
axis 630. The pinned weather information 610 may appear with a corresponding
display time 620.
[0071]        Nowcaster
[0072]        Figures 2A-2C are block diagrams of a nowcaster according to one or
more embodiments of the subject matter described in the specification.
[0073]        As shown in Figures 2A-2C, the nowcaster 200 receives weather
observations from different sources 201, such as weather observation sources,
including but not limited to, point observations 201-2 (e.g., feedback provided by
users and automated stations), weather radars 201-3, satellites 201-4 and other types
of weather observations 201-1, and weather forecast sources such as numerical
weather prediction (NWP) model output 201-5 and weather forecasts and advisories
201-6.
                                          11

[0074]         The nowcaster 200 comprises a memory 220 and a processor 210. The
memory 220 comprises the instructions for the method and also stores data from the
weather sources 201, intermediate results and weather forecasts. The processor 210
allows the nowcaster 200 to perform calculations.
[0075]         The nowcaster 200 can receive information 230 from a user 150 through
a communication network 254.
[0076]         The nowcaster 200 outputs a weather forecast or a succession of weather
forecasts.
[0077]         Figure 2B is one embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this embodiment,
the nowcaster 200 comprises a PType distribution forecaster 202 and a PRate
distribution forecaster 204. The PType distribution forecaster 202 receives the
weather observations from the different weather sources 201 and outputs a
probability distribution of precipitation type over an interval of time, for a given
latitude and longitude (and/or location). For example:
      a. Snow: 10%
      b. Rain: 30%
      c. Freezing Rain: 60%
      d. Hail: 0%
      e. Ice Pellets: 0%
[0078]         Similarly, the PRate forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for
a given latitude and longitude from the different sources 201 and outputs a
probability distribution forecast of a precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that
expresses the uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be output as a probability
distribution of precipitation rates or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a
given latitude and longitude. For example:
      f. No Precip.: 30%
      g. Light: 40%
      h. Moderate: 20%
      i. Heavy: 10%
                                           12

    [0079]        The PRate and PType values output by the PRate forecaster 204 and the
    PType forecaster 202 are sent to a forecast combiner 206 to combine these values into
    a single value PTypeRate which represents the precipitation outcomes. For example,
    if the value of PType is "Snow", and the value of "PRate" is heavy, the combined
    value of PTypeRate may be "heavy snow".
    [0080]        For a given latitude and longitude, the system outputs forecasted
    PTypeRate Distributions for predefined time intervals, either fixed (ex: 1 minute) or
    variable (e.g., one minute, five minutes, then 10 minutes, etc.). The system can either
    pre-calculate and store forecasted PTypeRate Distributions in a sequence of time
    intervals, or calculate then on the fly. A PTypeRate Distribution represents, for each
    time interval, the certainty or uncertainty that a PTypeRate will occur.
    [0081]        With reference to Figure 2B, the forecast combiner 206 receives the final
    PRate distribution from the PType forecaster 202 and the final PRate distribution
    from the PRate forecaster 204 to combine them into a group of PTypeRate
    distribution values each representing the probability of receiving a certain type of
    precipitation at a certain rate. An example is provided below.
    [0082]        Assuming that the PType distribution is as follows: Snow: 50%, Rain 0%,
    Freezing rain: 30%, Hail: 0%, Ice pellets: 20%, and the PRate distribution is as
    follows: None: 0%, Light: 10%, Moderate: 20%, Heavy: 30%, Very heavy: 40%, the
    PTypeRate distributions may be as follows:
Table 1: An Example of PTypeRate Distribution Table
      Type       Snow            Rain         Freez. Rain       Hail        Ice Pellets
PRate             50%              0%             30%            0%            20%
None 0%            No              No              No            No             No
             precipitation   precipitation   precipitation  precipitation precipitation
  Light         5% light           No          3% light          No        2% light ice
   10%           snow        precipitation   freezing rain  precipitation     pellets
Moderate          10%              No        6% moderate         No       4% moderate
  20%          moderate      precipitation   freezing rain  precipitation   ice pellets
                                               13

               snow
Heavy        15% heavy          No          9% heavy           No           6% heavy
 30%           snow        precipitation  freezing rain   precipitation     ice pellets
Very        20% heavy           No          12% very           No            8% very
Heavy          snow        precipitation      heavy       precipitation     heavy ice
 40%                                      freezing rain                       pellets
  [0083]        Accordingly, the forecast combiner 206 multiplies the probability of
  each type of precipitation by the probability of each rate of precipitation to obtain a
  probability of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate, for example,
  20% chance of heavy snow, or 12% chance of very heavy freezing rain. In an
  embodiment, it is possible to associate probability ranges with textual information for
  displaying the textual information to a user instead of the probabilities in numbers.
  For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be associated with the
  text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be
  associated with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby, instead of
  displaying: "60% chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high chance of
  heavy snow".
  [0084]        In another embodiment, it is possible to combine two or more different
  PTypeRates along one or more dimensions (the dimensions including: the rate, type,
  or probability). For example, results of such combination may include: Likely light to
  moderate rain; Likely light to moderate rain or heavy snow; Likely moderate rain or
  snow; Likely rain or snow; Chance of light to moderate rain or heavy snow or light
  hail; Chance of moderate rain, snow or hail; Chance of rain, snow or hail, etc.
  [0085]        Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
  nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are
  needed and outputs the PTypeRate distribution for the given location and for the
  specific time.
                                            14

[0086]        Figure 2C illustrates another embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this
embodiment, the nowcaster 200 comprises a PType selector/receiver 202-C and a
PRate distribution forecaster 204.
[0087]        Similar to the embodiment shown in Figure 2B, the PRate distribution
forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for a given latitude and longitude
from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability distribution forecast of a
precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that expresses the uncertainty. For
example, the PRate may be output as a probability distribution of precipitation rates
or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude. For
example:
     f. No Precip.: 30%
     g. Light: 40%
     h. Moderate: 20%
     i. Heavy: 10%
[0088]        However, the PType selector/receiver 202-C does not output a
probability distribution associated with different types of precipitation. Instead, the
PType selector/receiver 202-C receives weather observations for a given latitude and
longitude from the different sources 201 to select one precipitation type from a list of
different precipitation types. For example, based on the inputs received from the
sources 201, the PType selector/receiver 202-C selects a single precipitation type that
is most likely to occur in the given latitude and the longitude (and/or location) from
the following list of precipitation types:
     a. Snow
     b. Rain
     c. Freezing Rain
     d. Hail
     e. Ice Pellets
     f. Mix (e.g., a+c, a+d, b+c, a+e, c+e, d+e, etc.)
                                           15

[0089]        From the list of precipitation types, such as the one above, only one
precipitation type is selected for a given location. For example, a mix of snow and
freezing rain can be selected as the most likely precipitation type for a given location
at a given time. The precipitation type is not associated with a probability value. In
fact, since only one precipitation type is selected for any given location and time
corresponding to the location, the selected precipitation type will have the effective
probability value of 100%.
[0090]        The list of precipitation types that are available for selection of one type
may include a mix type that represent a mix of two different precipitation types (e.g.,
snow and freezing rain, hail and ice pellets, etc). A mix type is considered as a
distinct precipitation type available for selection, and as shown above in type (f) of
the list in paragraph [0070], there can be many different mix types representing the
mix of different pairs of various precipitation types.
[0091]        In another embodiment, the precipitation type is not selected by the
PType selector/receiver 202-C but instead is received from a source outside the
nowcaster 200. In other words, the nowcaster 200 may send a request to a remote
source (e.g., a third-party weather service) for identification of the precipitation type
that is most likely to occur at a given location at a given time and receive a response
from the source identifying the most likely precipitation type. In this case, selection
of the precipitation type is not performed by the nowcaster 200. The already-selected
precipitation type is merely inputted to the nowcaster 200, and consequently it may
save computational power of the nowcaster 200 that would otherwise have been
needed to perform the selection.
[0092]        The selected precipitation type and the PRate values respectively output
by the PType selector/receiver 202-C and the PRate distribution forecaster 204 are
combined. For example, if the selected precipitation type is snow, and the PRate
values are as described above, the combined information would indicate:
     a. No Snow: 30%
     b. Light Snow: 40%
                                           16

     c. Moderate Snow: 20%
     d. Heavy Snow: 10%.
 [0093]       As only one precipitation type is concerned, only minimal amount of
computational power is needed to perform the combining to output the final weather
forecast data. Since the PType selector/receiver 202-C will output one precipitation
type for a given location and time, if the PRate distribution forecaster 204 outputs a
number m of probability distribution, the final weather forecast data will comprise
only a number m (m*1) of weather forecast distribution.
[0094]        In outputting the final weather forecast data, it is possible to associate
probability ranges with textual information for displaying the textual information to
the user instead of the probabilities in numbers, similar to the embodiment shown in
Figure 2B. For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be
associated with the text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and
70% may be associated with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby,
instead of displaying: "60% chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high
chance of heavy snow".
[0095]       Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are
needed and outputs the selected PType and PRate distribution for the given location
and for the specific time.
[0096]       The nowcaster 200 according to the embodiment shown in Figure 2C
may be advantageous over the embodiment shown in Figure 2B in certain
circumstances in which efficiency is desired. The embodiment of Figure 2C can be
implemented using much less processing power than the embodiment of Figure 2B.
However, the embodiment of Figure 2B may be more suitable than the embodiment of
Figure 2C in providing more detailed and accurate snapshots of weather forecast data
for any given location and time.
[0097]       Figure 4 is an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced. The nowcaster 200 may be implemented on a server
                                          17

250 which is accessible by a plurality of client computers 252 over a communication
network 254. The client computers 252 may include, but are not limited to, laptops,
desktops, portable computing devices, tablets and the like. Using a client computer
252, each user 150 may view the displayed forecasted weather values. The server
accesses weather sources 201 over a communication network 254 as discussed in
connection with Figures 2B and 2C. The server 250 may have map data stored
thereon.
[0098]       Hardware and Operating Environment
[0099]       Figure 5 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be
practiced. The following description is associated with Figure 5 and is intended to
provide a brief, general description of suitable computer hardware and a suitable
computing environment in conjunction with which the embodiments may be
implemented. Not all the components are required to practice the embodiments, and
variations in the arrangement and type of the components may be made without
departing from the spirit or scope of the embodiments.
[00100]      Although not required, the embodiments are described in the general
context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being
executed by a computer, such as a personal computer, a hand-held or palm-size
computer, smartphone, or an embedded system such as a computer in a consumer
device or specialized industrial controller. Generally, program modules include
routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular
tasks or implement particular abstract data types.
[00101]       Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments
may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held
devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer
electronics, network PCS, minicomputers, mainframe computers, cellular telephones,
 smartphones, display pagers, radio frequency (RF) devices, infrared (IR) devices,
Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), laptop computers, wearable computers, tablet
                                          18

computers, a device of the iPod or iPad family of devices, integrated devices
combining one or more of the preceding devices, or any other computing device
capable of performing the methods and systems described herein. The embodiments
may also be practiced in distributed computing environments wherein tasks are
performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications
network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in
both local and remote memory storage devices.
[00102]      The exemplary hardware and operating environment of Figure 5 includes
a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer 720, including a
processing unit 721, a system memory 722, and a system bus 723 that operatively
couples various system components including the system memory to the processing
unit 721. There may be only one or there may be more than one processing unit 721,
such that the processor of computer 720 comprises a single central-processing unit
(CPU), or a plurality of processing units, commonly referred to as a parallel
processing environment. The computer 720 may be a conventional computer, a
distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the embodiments are not so
limited.
[00103]      The system bus 723 may be any of several types of bus structures
including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using
any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may also be referred to as
simply the memory, and includes read only memory (ROM) 724 and random access
memory (RAM) 725. A basic input/output system (BIOS) 726, containing the basic
routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer 720,
such as during start-up, is stored in ROM 724. In one embodiment of the claimed
subject matter, the computer 720 further includes a hard disk drive 727 for reading
from and writing to a hard disk, not shown, a magnetic disk drive 728 for reading
from or writing to a removable magnetic disk 729, and an optical disk drive 730 for
reading from or writing to a removable optical disk 731 such as a CD ROM or other
optical media. In alternative embodiments of the claimed subject matter, the
                                          19

functionality provided by the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk 729 and optical disk
drive 730 is emulated using volatile or non-volatile RAM in order to conserve power
and reduce the size of the system. In these alternative embodiments, the RAM may be
fixed in the computer system, or it may be a removable RAM device, such as a
Compact Flash memory card.
[00104]       In an embodiment of the claimed subject matter, the hard disk drive 727,
magnetic disk drive 728, and optical disk drive 730 are connected to the system bus
723 by a hard disk drive interface 732, a magnetic disk drive interface 733, and an
optical disk drive interface 734, respectively. The drives and their associated
computer-readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable
instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer 720. It
should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any type of computer-readable
media which can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic
cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges, random
access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROMs), and the like, may be used in
the exemplary operating environment.
[00105]       A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic
disk 729, optical disk 731, ROM 724, or RAM 725, including an operating system
735, one or more application programs 736, other program modules 737, and program
data 738. A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer
720 through input devices such as a keyboard 740 and pointing device 742. Other
input devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite
dish, scanner, touch sensitive pad, or the like. These and other input devices are often
connected to the processing unit 721 through a serial port interface 746 that is
coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a
parallel port, game port, or a universal serial bus (USB). In addition, input to the
system may be provided by a microphone to receive audio input.
[00106]       A monitor 747 or other type of display device is also connected to the
system bus 723 via an interface, such as a video adapter 748. In one embodiment of
                                          20

the claimed subject matter, the monitor comprises a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). In
addition to the monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices
(not shown), such as speakers and printers. The monitor may include a touch sensitive
surface which allows the user to interface with the computer by pressing on or
touching the surface.
[00107]       The computer 720 may operate in a networked environment using logical
connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer 749. These
logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of
the computer 720; the embodiment is not limited to a particular type of
communications device. The remote computer 749 may be another computer, a server,
a router, a network PC, a client, a peer device or other common network node, and
typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the
computer 720, although only a memory storage device 750 has been illustrated in
Figure 6. The logical connections depicted in Figure 6 include a local-area network
(LAN) 751 and a wide-area network (WAN) 752. Such networking environments are
commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the
Internet.
[00108]       When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer 720 is
connected to the local network 751 through a network interface or adapter 753, which
is one type of communications device. When used in a WAN-networking environment,
the computer 720 typically includes a modem 754, a type of communications device,
or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the
wide area network 752, such as the Internet. The modem 754, which may be internal
or external, is connected to the system bus 723 via the serial port interface 746. In a
networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the personal computer
720, or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It is
appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of
and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the
computers may be used.
                                          21

[00109]         The hardware      and operating    environment in conjunction with which
embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be practiced has been described. The
computer in conjunction with which embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be
practiced may be a conventional computer a hand-held or palm-size computer, a computer in
an embedded system, a distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the claimed
subject matter is not so limited. Such a computer typically includes one or more processing
units as its processor, and a computer-readable medium such as a memory. The computer
may also include a communications device such as a network adapter or a modem, so that it
is able to communicatively couple other computers.
[00110]         While preferred embodiments have been described above and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, it will be evident to those skilled in the art that modifications may
be made without departing from this disclosure. Such modifications are considered as
possible variants comprised in the scope of the disclosure.
[00111]         Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an
admission that such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
[00112]         Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits,
the term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
integers.
                                                22

         Claims
         1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
         receiving first weather information from a first device, the first weather information
                 generated by the first device and associated with a first time, a first location, and a
                 first weather event;
         receiving second weather information from a second device, the second weather
                 information generated by the second device and associated with a second time;
         receiving third weather information from a third device, the third weather information
                 generated by the third device and associated with a third time, a second location,
                 and the first weather event;
         generating a first timeline based on the first weather information, the second weather
                 information, and the third weather information;
         transmitting the first timeline to a user device;
         receiving observation data from the user device, the observation data related to the first
                 weather event at the first location at the first time; and
         updating the first timeline based on the observation data.
         2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first time is a past time, the second time is a
current time, and the third time is a future time.
         3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least one of the first weather information, the
second weather information, and the third weather information comprises a forecasted weather
value indicative of a probability of having a first type of precipitation in the first location with a
first intensity.
         4. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the second weather information is related to the
first location.
         5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the second weather information is related to the
first weather event.
                                                    23

        6. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first weather information, the second weather
information, and the third weather information are related to a first user.
        7. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the observation data corresponds to:
        a picture depicting the first weather event in the first location at the first time,
        a video depicting the first weather event in the first location at the first time,
        a comment describing the first weather event in the first location at the first time, or
        a combination thereof.
        8. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising generating a second timeline, for
display on a display device with the first timeline, the second timeline comprising information
indicative of weather information associated with a fourth time and a fifth time.
        9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first timeline is associated with the first weather
event and the second timeline is associated with a second weather event different from the first
weather event.
        10. The method of claim 8, wherein the first timeline is associated with a first user and
the second timeline is associated with a second user different from the first user, and wherein the
second timeline is based further on the observation data received from the user device.
        11. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the first weather event corresponds to at least
one of a tornado, a hurricane, a hail cloud, a heavy rain, a heavy snow, a derecho, and a
downburst.
        12. A device for generating a weather timeline, the device comprising:
        one or more processors;
        a memory that stores instructions for the one or more processors; and
        a communication module to connect to a remote user device via a communication
                network, wherein when the one or more processors execute the instructions stored
                in the memory, the device is caused to:
                                                  24

                 receive first weather information from a first device, the first weather information
                         generated by the first device and associated with a first time, a first
                         location, and a first weather event;
                 receive second weather information from a second device, the second weather
                         information generated by the second device and associated with a second
                         time;
                 receive third weather information from a third device, the third weather
                         information generated by the third device and associated with a third time,
                         a second location, and the first weather event;
                 generate a first timeline based on the first weather information, the second
                         weather information, and the third weather information;
                 transmit the first timeline to the remote user device;
                 receive observation data from the remote user device, the observation data related
                         to the first weather event at the first location at the first time; and
                 update the first timeline based on the observation data.
         13. The device of claim 12, wherein the first time is a past time, the second time is a
current time, and the third time is a future time.
         14. The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein at least one of the first weather information,
the second weather information, and the third weather information comprises a forecasted
weather value indicative of a probability of having a first type of precipitation in the first location
with a first intensity.
         15. The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the second weather information is related to
the first location.
         16. The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the second weather information is related to
the first weather event that is associated with at least a precipitation type, a temperature level or a
wind intensity.
                                                    25

        17. The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the first weather information, the second
weather information, and the third weather information are related to a user.
        18. The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the observation data corresponds to:
        a picture depicting the first weather event in the first location at the first time;
        a video depicting the first weather event in the first location at the first time;
        a comment describing the first weather event in the first location at the first time; or
        a combination thereof.
        19. The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein the device is caused to generate a second
timeline for display on a display device with the first timeline, the second timeline based on
weather information associated with a fourth time and a fifth time.
        20. A system comprising a server and a remote device that is connected over a
communication network, wherein:
        the server comprises a computer and a non-transitory computer readable medium that
                stores a program causing the computer to execute a timeline generation process,
                the timeline generation process comprising:
                receivingfirst weather information from a first device, the first weather
                        information generated by the first device and associated with a first time, a
                        first location, and a first weather event;
                receiving second weather information from a second device, the second weather
                        information generated by the second device and associated with a second
                        time;
                receiving third weather information from a third device, the third weather
                        information generated by the third device and associated with a third time,
                        a second location, and the first weather event;
                generating a first timeline based on the first weather information, the second
                        weather information, and the third weather information;
                transmitting the first timeline to the remote device;
                receiving observation data from the remote device, the observation data related to
                        the first weather event at the first location at the first time; and
                                                    26

               updating the first timeline based on the observation data, and
        the remote device comprises one or more processors, a display and a non-transitory
               memory storing a program causing the one or more processors to execute a
               process comprising:
               obtaining the first timeline from the server via the communication network; and
               displaying at least a part of the first timeline on the display.
        21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by one or
more processors to perform the methods of any of claims 1-11.
        22. The system of claim 20, wherein the remote device comprises one of the first device,
the second device, and the third device.
                                                   27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
