   ABSTRACT
   Methods, systems and apparatus are disclosed herein for facilitating the provision of services to an
   entity's clients. The present invention provides for the appointment of a representative of the
   entity to service at least a portion of the entity's client portfolio. This appointment includes
 5 management rights to manage the at least a portion of the entity's portfolio. The present invention
   further provides for the appointed representative to be allowed to appoint a sub-representative in
   place of the representative, including assigning the management rights. Consideration received by
   the representative for the assignment of the management rights may partially or wholly revert to
   the original entity, depending on how long the representative has held the management rights.
10

                                                       1
                                  METHOD OF MANAGING ASSETS
   The present application is a Divisional of Australian Patent Application <removed-apn>, which in
 5 turn claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent Application 2007905976 titled METHOD
   OF MANAGING ASSETS, and filed on 31 October 2007. The content of each of these
   applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10 This invention relates to the operation of entities managing a portfolio of clients and in particular,
   to those entities which appoint representatives to conduct business on their behalf.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   Many companies and businesses are in the business of providing services to their clients. For
15 example, insurance companies provide a variety of insurance options to their clients, including
   advice and continual education and monitoring to ensure that the client has the most appropriate
   form of insurance for its particular circumstance at any given time.
   As laws and the variety of such insurance products and services increases, the workload on the
20 company also increases. Furthermore, as a company's client base increases, it becomes less and
   less practical for the company to be able to properly manage their clients and each client's
   individual needs.
   Accordingly, it has become commonplace for such entities to appoint one or more representatives
25 to represent that entity and manage some of the company's clients.
   During its normal course of business, a service company will often develop a strict set of
   guidelines to be followed in managing its clients. It is these guidelines that allow the service
   company to provide good service to a client and develop a good name for themselves in the
30 industry. This name becomes a very valuable asset and any bad service, or non-adherence to the
   guidelines can tarnish the service company's name and reputation and seriously damage its
   business.
   Accordingly, it is common practice to require any appointed representatives to sign a contract to
35 bind them to following the service company's guidelines.

                                                       2
   It is an object of the present invention to further facilitate the service company's business in
   providing its services to its clients.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 5 According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided method of facilitating the
   provision of services to an entity's clients, the method comprising:
             appointing a representative of the entity to service at least a portion of the entity's client
   portfolio, the appointment including management rights to manage the at least a portion of the
   entity's portfolio; and
10           allowing the appointed representative to appoint a sub-representative in place of the
   representative, including assigning the management rights.
   The method may further comprise requiring the representative to inform the entity of the
   consideration for assigning the management rights.
15
   The method may further comprise requiring the representative to inform the entity of the terms
   and conditions of the assignment of the management rights.
   In some embodiments, the method further comprises, upon the entity being informed by the
20 representative that it wishes to assign its management rights, allowing the entity to select a sub
   representative on behalf of the representative.
   The method may further comprise that if the entity does not select a sub-representative within a
   specified time period, allowing the representative to select the sub-representative. The specified
25 time period may be sixty days.
   In some embodiments, the method further comprises requiring the representative to pay, to the
   entity, a portion of the consideration received by the representative from the sub-representative for
   the assignment of the management rights.
30
   The method may further comprise requiring the sub-representative to enter into an agreement with
   the service company to become a representative of the service company.
   In a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system for facilitating the provision
35 of services to an entity's clients, the system comprising:

                                                         3
            appointment means to appoint a representative of the entity to service at least a portion of
   the entity's client portfolio, the appointment including the right to manage the at least a portion of
   the entity's portfolio; and
            control means to allow the appointed representative to appoint a sub-representative in
 5 place of the representative, including assigning management rights to manage the at least a portion
   of the entity's portfolio.
   The system may take a variety of forms, such as a computer software program enabling an entity
   to appoint a representative and control the appointment of sub-representatives. The system could
10 also be a contract having terms which are effective to perform the system's functions under a
   specific legal jurisdiction.
   In a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a computer readable medium having
   stored thereon a contract to facilitate the provision of services to an entity's clients, the contract
15 having terms effective to:
            appoint a representative of the entity to service at least a portion of the entity's client
   portfolio, the appointment including management rights to manage the at least a portion of the
   entity's portfolio; and
            allow the appointed representative to appoint a sub-representative in place of the
20 representative, including assigning the management rights.
   In a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of producing a contract
   comprising to facilitate the provision of services to an entity's clients, comprising:
            providing a contract term effective to appoint a representative of the entity to service at
25 least a portion of the entity's client portfolio, the appointment including management rights to
   manage the at least a portion of the entity's portfolio; and
            providing a contract term allow the appointed representative to appoint a sub
   representative in place of the representative, including assigning the management rights.
30 In further aspects of the present invention, there are also provided computer readable media and
   computer program elements for directing a programmable device to perform the steps of the above
   methods. Yet further aspects of the present invention will be revealed throughout this
   specification.
35 A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with
   accompanying figures that illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention. While the
   invention is described in connection with such embodiments, it should be understood that the

                                                       4
   invention is not limited to any embodiment. On the contrary, the scope of the invention is limited
   only by the appended claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives, modifications
   and equivalents. For the purpose of example, numerous specific details are set forth in the
   following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention.
 5
   The present invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these
   specific details. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields
   related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the present invention is not
   unnecessarily obscured.
10
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   An illustrative embodiment of the present invention will be discussed with reference to the
   accompanying drawings wherein:
15 FIGURE 1 depicts a system adapted to perform a method according to an embodiment of one
   aspect of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   The invention will now be described with reference to a service company called ABC Pty Ltd,
20 who is an insurance broker. ABC Pty Ltd has over time, developed a substantial portfolio of
   clients to which it provides insurance products, services and advice.
   In conducting its business, ABC Pty Ltd develops a rigorous management policy that each of its
   employees servicing its clients must adhere to. This policy ensures that its clients are provided
25 with good and consistent service.
   As ABC Pty Ltd's business grows, it decides to appoint another company, XYZ Pty Ltd, to
   manage ABC Pty Ltd's clients in New South Wales, thereby giving to XYZ Pty Ltd, the rights to
   manage its portfolio of clients. As a part of this appointment, company XYZ Pty Ltd is generally
30 required to manage the clients of ABC Pty Ltd in New South Wales in accordance with ABC Pty
   Ltd's policy.
   Three years later, the Directors of XYZ Pty Ltd decide to dissolve the company for various
   reasons. According to an aspect of the present invention, company XYZ is able to assign its
35 management rights to another company, to effectively take over the operations of XYZ Pty Ltd in
   New South Wales.

                                                       5
   According to an aspect of the invention, company XYZ Pty Ltd must inform ABC Pty Ltd of its
   intention to cease acting as its representative, and to assign its management rights to another
   company.
 5 Company ABC Pty Ltd has the option of selecting another company to be the assignee of the
   management rights (or sub-representative). In this case, the company selected by ABC Pty Ltd
   will purchase the management rights from XYZ Pty Ltd and take over its operations in New South
   Wales.
10 If, within sixty days of being informed by XYZ Pty Ltd that it wishes to assign its management
   rights, ABC Pty Ltd is not able to find a suitable company to take over from XYZ Pty Ltd, it is
   open to XYZ Pty Ltd to find an appropriate company.
   If ABC Pty Ltd does not approve of the company selected by XYZ Pty Ltd, ABC Pty Ltd has the
15 right of veto.
   If no suitable company can be found, XYZ Pty Ltd will have an obligation to continue its duties as
   representative of ABC Pty Ltd for a period of six months. Following this ABC Pty Ltd would take
   on the management of the asset for no consideration.
20
   The company selected by XYZ Pty Ltd must be one whose officers and employees are of good
   character and have appropriate qualifications and experience in the insurance industry to be able
   to properly manage the New South Wales clients of ABC Pty Ltd.
25 For example, company XYZ Pty Ltd selects company LMN Pty Ltd to assign its management
   rights to. Upon assigning the management rights to LMN Pty Ltd, LMN Pty Ltd pays XYZ Pty
   Ltd the sum of $40,000 in consideration of the assignment.
   Company XYZ Pty Ltd pays to ABC Pty Ltd at least a portion of this consideration. The actual
30 portion is determined as follows:
   If the assignment occurs within 12 months of XYZ Pty Ltd becoming the representative of ABC
   Pty Ltd in New South Wales, then XYZ Pty Ltd pays to ABC Pty Ltd, 100%, or $40,000.
35 If the assignment occurs between one and two years, then XYZ Pty Ltd pays to ABC Pty Ltd,
   75%, or $30,000.

                                                        6
   If the assignment occurs between two and three years, then XYZ Pty Ltd pays to ABC Pty Ltd,
   50%, or $15,000.
   If the assignment occurs between three and four years, then XYZ Pty Ltd pays to ABC Pty Ltd,
 5 25%, or$10,000.
   If the assignment occurs after four years, then XYZ Pty Ltd pays to ABC Pty Ltd, 10%, or $4,000.
   Upon LMN Pty Ltd taking up its new role as representative of ABC Pty Ltd in New South Wales
10 to manage its client portfolio in that State, LMN Pty Ltd enters into an agreement with ABC Pty
   Ltd along the same terms as XYZ Pty Ltd had.
   ABC Pty Ltd is able to assign its own management rights to any company or person without the
   prior consent of the representative.
15
   In some embodiments, the present invention may be implemented as a computer system.
   Referring now to Figure 1, there is shown a computer system in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present invention. It comprises a central computer having a memory 10 connected to a
   central processing unit (CPU) 20. The CPU comprises an arithmetic and logic unit (ALU) 22, as
20 well as a control unit program counter 26 and an input/output interface 24. Connected to the
   input/output interface 24 are shown a printer 30, a display 40 and an input device 50 (such as a
   keyboard or mouse). The system may also be connected to the Internet, enabling parties to access
   it from disparate locations.
25 The system may in some embodiments enable a person (for instance an employee of the entity
   ABC Pty Ltd) to select a representative from a list of known representatives. They could then
   select a specific portion of the entity's portfolio (from another list presented to them). The system
   may then automatically prepare and print an appropriate contract, for execution by both parties.
   Alternatively, representatives who have an existing relationship with the entity may be able to
30 agree to become a representative for the specific portion of the entity's portfolio simply by
   logging into the system and accepting the contract over the Internet. The system may further
   monitor and control any assignment of the management rights by the representative to the sub
   representative.
35 For example, if a representative wishes to assign the management rights, they first may be
   required to register an intention to assign the rights with the system, thereby informing the entity.
   The system could then prompt the entity to select a sub-representative. If no sub-representative is

                                                           7
   selected by the entity, the system could allow the representative to appoint their own sub
   representative and inform the entity of the consideration received. The system could then calculate
   the proportion of that consideration which is to revert to the entity. Effectively, in such an
   embodiment, the system could manage a process in accordance with the method of the present
 5 invention.
   As will be understood, a contract implementing the present invention is preferably drafted in
   accordance with requirements of the laws of the relevant jurisdiction. Such a contract will require
   a term (or clause) for ABC Pty Ltd to appoint the representative, XYZ Pty Ltd, to service at least a
10 portion of ABC Pty Ltd's client portfolio. This term would serve as an appointment means in
   accordance with the present invention. This appointment would include the right to manage the at
   least a portion of the entity's portfolio.
   The contract would also contain control means which allows XYZ Pty Ltd to assign the
15 management rights to a sub-representative. Preferably, the control means also provides some
   restrictions, which allow ABC Pty Ltd to control the assignment of the management rights and/or
   obtain part or all of the consideration received by XYZ Pty Ltd in return for the management
   rights. An example clause in a suitable contract between ABC Pty Ltd and XYZ Pty Ltd is as
   follows:
20
   9.1       The management rights ("Assets") held by XYZ Pty Ltd may not be assigned by XYZ Pty
   Ltd to another person unless:
             (a)       it first gives notice to ABC Pty Ltd of the consideration for, and terms and
25           conditions upon which, it wishes to assign the Assets.
             (b)       after receipt of notice under clause 9.1(a), ABC Pty Ltd will have a period of
             sixty (60) days to procure a suitable assignee on behalf of XYZ Pty Ltd ("Procurement
             Period").
30           (c)       if ABC Pty Ltd does not procure a suitable assignee within the Procurement
             Period, then XYZ Pty Ltd may assign all but not part of the Assets, to a third party for a
             consideration not less than that specified in the notice under clause 9.1(a) and, provided
             that the:
35                     (i)       the assignee and its officers and employees are of good character and
                       have appropriate qualifications and experience within the insurance broking and
                       sales industry; and

                                                     8
                     (ii)    assignment is evidenced in writing and to the extent consistent with those
                     terms and conditions completed within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the
                     expiry of Procurement Period. XYZ Pty Ltd will promptly provide ABC Pty Ltd
 5                   with a copy of documents evidencing the assignment.
   9.2     As a condition of its consent to any assignment pursuant to clause 9.1(a), ABC Pty Ltd
   will require that XYZ Pty Ltd pay to ABC Pty Ltd a percentage of any consideration received by
   XYZ Pty Ltd from the assignee in respect of the assignment in accordance with the following
10 scale:
           (a)       100% of the consideration received if the assignment occurs within twelve
           months of the Commencement Date;
           (b)       75% of the consideration received if the assignment occurs within one to two
15         years of the Commencement Date;
           (c)       50% of the consideration received if the assignment occurs within two to three
           years of the Commencement Date;
           (d)       25% of the consideration received if the assignment occurs within three to four
           years of the Commencement Date;
20         (e)       10% of the consideration received if the assignment occurs within four years or
           more after the Commencement Date.
   9.3     In the event of an assignment in accordance with this clause 9 the assignee and ABC Pty
   Ltd will enter into a new Service Agreement upon the terms of the standard Service Agreement
25 offered by ABC Pty Ltd to XYZ Pty Ltd at the time of the assignment, save that this new Service
   Agreement will contain a clause whereby ABC Pty Ltd may retain up to 10% of the proceeds of
   any future assignment of such Service Agreement by the assignee.
   9.4     ABC Pty Ltd may assign its rights under this document to another person or Company
   without the prior consent of XYZ Pty Ltd.
30
   The above has been described in relation to specific embodiments of the present invention.
   However, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many variations and modifications
   may be made within the scope of the present invention. For example, further requirements may be
   imposed on a representative in selecting a sub-representative, and the values of the any
35 consideration paid to the service provider can be modified.

                                                       9
   Furthermore, the invention may be applied between a company and a natural person or a business,
   or any other form of entity, or any combination thereof and is not limited to application between
   companies.
 5 It should be noted that the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the
   scope of the invention. The present invention can also be implemented in numerous ways,
   including as processes, apparatus, systems, or a computer readable media such as computer
   readable storage media or computer networks wherein program instructions are sent over optical
   or electronic communication links. For instance, a contract may be produced only in computer
10 readable form, and may be executed simply online.
   Throughout this specification and the claims that follow unless the context requires otherwise, the
   words 'comprise' and 'include' and variations such as 'comprising' and 'including' will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
15 any other integer or group of integers.
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common general
   knowledge.

                                                      10
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.       A method of facilitating the provision of services to an entity's clients, the method
   comprising:
 5          appointing a representative of the entity to service at least a portion of the entity's client
   portfolio, the appointment including management rights to manage the at least a portion of the
   entity's portfolio; and
            allowing the appointed representative to appoint a sub-representative in place of the
   representative, including assigning the management rights.
10
   2.       A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising:
   requiring the representative to inform the entity of any consideration for assigning the
   management rights.
15 3.       A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further comprising:
   requiring the representative to inform the entity of any terms and conditions of the assignment of
   the management rights.
   4.       A method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising:
20 upon the entity being informed by the representative that it wishes to assign its management
   rights, allowing the entity to select a sub-representative on behalf of the representative.
   5.       A method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising:
   if the entity does not select a sub-representative within a specified time period, allowing the
25 representative to select the sub-representative.
   6.       A method as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising:
   requiring the representative to pay, to the entity, a portion of any consideration received by the
   representative from the sub-representative for the assignment of the management rights.
30
   7.       A method as claimed in any preceding claim, further comprising:
   requiring the sub-representative to enter into an agreement with the service company to become a
   representative of the service company.

                                                      11
   8.       A system for facilitating the provision of services to an entity's clients, the system
   comprising:
            appointment means to appoint a representative of the entity to service at least a portion of
   the entity's client portfolio, the appointment including the right to manage the at least a portion of
 5 the entity's portfolio; and
            control means to allow the appointed representative to appoint a sub-representative in
   place of the representative, including assigning management rights to manage the at least a portion
   of the entity's portfolio.
10 9.       A system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the control means is further adapted to require
   the representative to inform the entity of any consideration for assigning the management rights.
   10.      A system as claimed in claim 8 or 9, wherein the control means is further adapted to
   require the representative to inform the entity of any terms and conditions of the assignment of the
15 management rights.
   11.      A system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the control means is further adapted to allow
   the entity to select a sub-representative on behalf of the representative, upon the entity being
   informed by the representative that it wishes to assign its management rights.
20
   12.      A system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the control means is further adapted to allow
   the representative to select the sub-representative, if the entity does not select a sub-representative
   within a specified time period.
25 13.      A system as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 12, wherein the control means is further
   adapted to require the representative to pay, to the entity, a portion of any consideration received
   by the representative from the sub-representative for the assignment of the management rights.
   14.      A system as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 13, wherein the control means is further
30 adapted to require the sub-representative to enter into an agreement with the service company to
   become a representative of the service company.
   15.      A system as claimed in any one of claims 8 to 14, wherein the system is a contract, and
   the appointment means and control means are terms of the contract.
35

                                                        12
   16.      A computer readable medium encoded with data representing a computer program that
   can be used to direct a programmable device to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 7.
   17.      A computer readable medium having stored thereon a contract to facilitate the provision
 5 of services to an entity's clients, the contract having terms effective to:
            appoint a representative of the entity to service at least a portion of the entity's client
   portfolio, the appointment including management rights to manage the at least a portion of the
   entity's portfolio; and
            allow the appointed representative to appoint a sub-representative in place of the
10 representative, including assigning the management rights.
   18.      A method of producing a contract to facilitate the provision of services to an entity's
   clients, comprising:
            providing a contract term effective to appoint a representative of the entity to service at
15 least a portion of the entity's client portfolio, the appointment including management rights to
   manage the at least a portion of the entity's portfolio; and
            providing a contract term allow the appointed representative to appoint a sub
   representative in place of the representative, including assigning the management rights.

                                  <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                         Printer
         ALU                               30
          22         CPU
                      20
Memory
  10
                   Input/Output
                     Interface
                        24
                                       Display                  1/1
                                         40
           Control Unit
         Program Counter
               26
                                       Input Device
                                            50
                       Figure 1

