ABSTRACT
      A biochip, which upon insertion into an electrophoresis instrument having
pneumatic, thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and a process controller,
generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one sample, said biochip
comprising:
a macro fluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample;
the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport
channel and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising, a pneumatic
plate and one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions
from said process controller;
a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising a separation channel, and further comprising a detection region
positioned to send signals from each of said channels to said optical subsystem
on said instrument;
wherein the biochip is plastic, stationary, and unitary.

                                                   -1
   UNITARY BIOCHIP PROVIDING SAMPLE-IN TO RESULTS-OUT PROCESSING
                               AND METHODS OF MANUFACTURE
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[001]    The field of microfluidics can be broadly defined as related to the manipulation of small
fluidic volumes, typically those that are less than one milliliter.         The concept that using
microfluidic volumes in clinical assays would represent a significant improvement over
conventional methods dates back to the late 1960's and early 1970's. While those working in the
field appreciated that small volume analyses would lead to portable instruments that required less
laboratory space, improved precision and accuracy, increased throughput, reduced cost, and
compatibility with true automation, the systems developed at that time were simple and did not
realize the desired advantages of microfluidics. One early system was based on the analysis of I
10 pl of sample and 70-110 pl of reagents that were transferred and mixed in a small centrifugal
rotor (Anderson, N. (1969). Computer interfaced fast analyzers. Science 166: 3 17-24; and Burtis,
C et al. (1972). Development of a miniature fast analyzer. Clinical Chemistry 18: 753-61). That
rotor is likely the first reported microfluidic biochip.
[002]    In 1990, the theoretical foundation of the field of microfluidics was further characterized
by Manz, who coined the term "miniaturized total chemical analysis system" or "p-TAS", to
define what he considered should be the next generation of microfluidic devices. Manz proposed
that such devices should be capable of performing all required sample handling steps. Manz'
stated objectives helped establish the major goal in the modern era of microfluidics: to deliver a
total, that is to say, fully integrated, analysis systems capable of performing a complex series of
process steps from the insertion of a sample to the generation of a result without operator
intervention. It is the promise of integrating a complex series of sample manipulations and
process steps that has led to the widespread adoption of the phrase "laboratory on a chip."
[003]    Work on centrifugal systems continued after the first early efforts and resulted in a
commercial centrifugal system for sandwich immunoassays that used a microfluidic compact
disc drive. The system was not fully integrated, however; and more accurately should be termed
a workstation in which reagents were transferred to and from the compact disc robotically.
Furthermore, the immunoassays were quite simple, based on passing a sample through a capture
column. Although the system used microfluidic volumes to reduce reagent costs, it delivered
neither on the promise of microfluidics to provide a fully-integrated system nor on the promise
of microfluidics to integrate a complex series of sample manipulations and process steps.

                                                 -2
[004]    Similarly, other workers fabricated a spinning biochip in poly(methyl methacrylate)
[PMMA] by soft embossing to fractionate plasma from whole blood.                 There have been
applications of spinning microfluidic biochips, for measurement of various analytes of interest in
a blood sample. However, the devices have been developed for simple analytic tests, for example
establishing the amounts of analytes of interest in a blood sample. The samples are not subjected
to a complex series of sample manipulations and process steps, and even after almost two
decades of development, can still have significant reliability problems correlating with
established conventional assays.
[005]   In general, CD-based biochips have major drawbacks and limitations. First, they do not
enable sufficient process complexity. These biochips are limited to relatively simple processes
such as certain cell separations (serving as replacements for conventional centrifugation
instrumentation) and for high throughput immunoassays (serving as replacements for the mixing
and incubation of conventional assays).     Second, the use of centrifugal force as the driver of
fluidic transport is limiting. For example, the requirement to rotate the biochip places profound
limitations on the approach to sample handling-either the sample must be introduced indirectly
(requiring either manual intervention or additional instrumentation) or directly (e.g. a blood
collection tube or swab would need to be subjected to centrifugation as well). Furthermore,
process flow in spinning biochips proceeds unidirectionally, and the radius of the biochip limits
the area available for sample process steps to take place (one of the factors that limits process
complexity).
[006]   Concomitantly, alternatives to CD-based biochips have been studied. A number of groups
have worked on microfluidic biochips based on microtiter plates using SBS (Society for
Biomolecular Screening, Microplate Standards Development Committee, ANSI/SBS1, Danbury,
CT, 2004) standards. The SBS developed a series of published standards for microtiter plates
that include footprint (127.76 by 85.48 mm, 10,920.9 mm2), height, and bottom outside flange
dimensions and well positions. These standards have been incorporated by commercial
manufacturers and academic groups, regardless of the fabrication process utilized. Microfluidic
microtiter plates have been developed for a number of processes, including DNA purification
and protein crystallization. These biochips require sample pre-processing prior to introduction,
perform only two steps of the DNA purification process, and do not perform any analysis of the
DNA product of the process.
[007]    Similarly, other groups have used rectangular microfluidic plates based on SBS standards
for tasks such as the mixing of nanoliter volume reagents, medium exchange during live cell

                                                 -3
microscopy, and dispensing cells and reagents. Still other workers have adapted rectangular
biochips to be used in robotic systems for the high-throughput dispensing of reagents into wells.
Another group developed a rectangular biochip for protein detection by biological signal
amplification in a well-in-a-well device.
[008]   In the progression of biochip development, a number of "integrated fluidic circuit"
products based on the use of microfluidic features in an SBS format have been commercialized.
For example, a biochip performs single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping using an
array that can interrogate 48 samples for each of 48 SNPs. The process is conducted by first
preparing purified DNA and reaction mixes outside the microfluidic plate, placing the plate on a
controller, priming the plate, loading and mixing reagents over 45 minutes on the plate, placing
the plate on a thermal cycler for PCR, and transferring the plate to a fluorescence detection
instrument. These biochips require sample pre-processing prior to introduction, require several
manual steps during on-chip sample processing, do not incorporate reagents, and do not perform
any analysis of the DNA product of the process.
[009]   A similar commercial approach measures platelet adhesion using a well plate
microfluidic technology that integrates micron scale flow cell devices into SBS-standard well
plates. The process requires a number of pre-processing steps, including manually introducing a
protein of interest to coat the microfluidic channels, perfusing the channels, washing, manually
preparing the cell sample of interest, adding the cell sample to the microfluidic channels, and
placing the plate onto a workstation for further processing and analysis. A similar approach has
been applied to studying wound healing by exposing epithelial cells to a variety of compounds.
These biochips require extensive sample pre-processing prior to introduction.
[010]   Much of the microfluidic biochip prior art is based on the use of materials such as silicon
or glass to fabricate biochips. However, silicon and glass biochips are prohibitively expensive to
fabricate for high volume commercial applications (costing up to thousands of dollars for a
single biochip) and are therefore impractical to be single-use disposables. Moreover, the need to
reuse these biochips leads to problems with run-to-run contamination (an issue for human
identity and clinical diagnostics), problems with instrumentation complexity if the biochips are
prepared for reuse in the instrument, and problems with logistics if the biochips are prepared for
reuse outside the instrument.
[011]   In order to realize the unfulfilled potential of microfluidics, microfluidic biochips and
systems that are capable of performing a complex series of processing steps for one or more
samples in parallel in the setting of a fully-integrated, sample-in to results out system in which

                                                  -4
there is no requirement for operator manipulation is needed. However, the biochips developed to
date perform only a subset of the steps required for analysis, cannot perform complex series of
processing steps, and are not capable of producing analytical results on a single device.
Furthermore, these biochips and systems use materials and methods ill-suited to mass
production.
 [011a] In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
providing a context for discussing the features of the invention.       Unless specifically stated
otherwise, reference to such external documents or such sources of information is not to be
construed as an admission that such documents or such sources of information, in any
jurisdiction, are prior art or form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
                           SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION CLAIMED
 [011b] This application is a divisional of Australian patent application <removed-apn>, which is a
divisional of Australian patent application 2013204367, which is a divisional of Australian
patent application 2011224387, which is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT
 international application PCT/US201 1/027787 (published as WO 2011/112746), and claims the
benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/339,743, filed March 9, 2010 all of
which are incorporated herein by reference.
 [011c] In accordance with an aspect of the invention as claimed, there is provided a system
comprising: an instrument having a pneumatic subsystem for supplying a pressure of 20-500 psig
at an interface; and a biochip for insertion into said instrument comprising a pre-loaded reagent
 storage chamber having a top end and a bottom end; a first foil seal bonded to the bottom end; a
 second foil seal bonded to the top end; and a pneumatic input, positioned at said interface and
configured to receive pressure of 20-500 psig from said instrument and deliver it to said top end,
thereby causing said first and second foils to burst, and to release the contents of the reagent
 storage chamber.
                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION DESCRIBED
 [011 d] There is provided a system for processing an unprocessed biological sample, the system
comprising: a biochip and a process controller, the biochip, which upon insertion into an
electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical subsystems, and
the process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one
unprocessed sample, the biochip comprising: a macrofluidic processing subassembly in

                                                -5
connection with a fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly, and further comprising: (i)
at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample and (ii) at least one, but no less than all of the
marofluidic reagent storage chambers necessary for the macrofluidic process requirements for
said processing from an unprocessed sample, each of said chambers pre-loaded with at least one
necessary reagent; the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate having a top and bottom
patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, to form at least one fluid transport channel on
each sides of the plate and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal
subsystem; the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic
subsystem of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising a pneumatic
plate having a top patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, and one or a plurality of drive
lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process controller; a plurality of
microfluidic features located on any one of the top or bottom surfaces of either the fluidic or
pneumatic plates, said microfluidic features comprising all of the microfluidic reagent storage
chambers necessary for the microfluidic process requirements for generating said nucleic acid
sequencing or sizing profile from an unprocessed sample, each of said microfluidic chambers
pre-loaded with at least one necessary reagent; a valve subassembly, positioned between and
connected to said fluidic and pneumatic subassemblies; and a separation and detection
subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and optical subsystems and process
controller on said instrument, said separation and detection subassembly comprising at least one
separation channel, and further comprising a detection region positioned to send signals from
each of said at least one separation channels to said optical subsystem on said instrument; and
wherein the process controller of the instrument includes instructions to perform 25 or more
automated scripted process steps.
[011 e] The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting at least
in part of. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include the term
'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each statement can also
be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in a similar
manner.
[011f] There is provided a method of performing sample-in to results out automated
electrophoresis on at least one unprocessed sample in a unitary biochip having a macrofluidic
processing subassembly in fluid communication with a fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic
subassembly, the method comprising: inserting the at least one unprocessed sample into a
chamber in the macrofluidic processing subassembly; inserting the biochip into an instrument
having a pneumatic subsystem, a thermal subsystem, a high voltage subsystem, an optical

                                                 -6
system, and a process controller that can accept a predefined process script and implement the
process script automatically by reading the process script and controlling the pneumatic
subsystem, a thermal subsystem, a high voltage subsystem, and optical system; activating the
process controller to carry out the process script, the process script including instructions to:
initialize the biochip by applying pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to valve lines of the
pneumatic subassembly or in fluid communication with the pneumatic subassembly; purify DNA
from the unprocessed sample by applying pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the
macrofluidic processing subassembly to release reagents stored therein, applying a pressure from
the pneumatic subsystem to the released reagents to form a cell lysate from the unprocessed
sample, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to pull the lysate through a
purification filter in the fluidics subassembly into a holding chamber to bind DNA in the lysate
to the filter, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to release a wash solution stored
in the macrofluidic processing subassembly to flow through the purification filter to remove
contaminants from the bound DNA; applying a pressure to flow air through the purification filter
to dry the bound DNA, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to release an elution
solution stored in the macrofluidics processing subassembly to release the bound DNA from the
purification filter , generating an eluate containing purified DNA; transport the eluate to a
reconstitution chamber containing a lyophilized PCR reaction mix by applying pressure from the
pneumatic subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; transport the reconstituted PCR reaction
mix to a thermal cycling chamber in the fluidics subassembly; apply heat to the thermal cycling
chamber by initiating a thermal cycle protocol to generate labeled amnplicons from the PCR
mixture; transport the labeled amplicons and a formamide reagent stored in the macrofluidic
processing subassembly to a joining chamber in the fluidics subassembly by applying pressure
from the pneumatics subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; the labeled amplicons and
formamide reagent forming a formamide-PCR product mixture; transport the formamide-PCR
product mixture by applying a pressure from the pneumatic system to the pneumatic
subassembly to flow the mixture to an ILS cake chamber for mixing with an ILS cake to
generate a separation and detection sample; transport the separation and detection sample into a
cathode chamber within the fluidics subassembly by applying a pressure from the pneumatic
subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; prepare cathode and anode of the fluidics subassembly
for separation of the separation and detection by applying a voltage from the high voltage
subsystem to bias the cathode and anode; transport gel from a gel reagent reservoir in the fluidics
subassembly to a cathode chamber and waste chamber of the fluidics subassembly by application
of pressure from the pneumatics subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; inject and separate
the separation and detection sample in the separation channel by applying a voltage through the

                                                   -7
high voltage subsystem to a cathode and anode; and effect fluorescence of separated components
of the separation and detection sample by activating a laser in the optical subsystem; and
automatically detecting a fluorescent signal of the separated components to provide separation
and detection sample results from at least one unprocessed samples.
[0 11g] There is described a system for providing at least two types of sample-in to results-out
processing for at least one biological sample, the system comprising a stationary biochip and an
instrument including pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical subsystems for interfacing
with the biochip, and a process controller, said stationary biochip comprising: a macrofluidic
processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly,
comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample and at least one, but no less than all
of the macrofluidic reagent storage chambers necessary for said processing from an unprocessed
sample, each of said chambers pre-loaded with at least one necessary reagent; the fluidic
subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport channel and an
amplification   chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem; the pneumatic
subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem of said instrument, and
to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising, a pneumatic plate and one or a plurality of
drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process controller; a separation
and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and optical subsystems
and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection subassembly comprising
a separation channel, and further comprising a detection region positioned to send signals from
each of said channels to said optical subsystem on said instrument; the biochip further
comprising at least two distinct pathways for sample processing, each of the at least two distinct
pathways being dedicated to different analytical processes; and wherein the process controller of
the instrument including a set of instructions to process the at least one biological sample in the
different analytical processes.
[0 11h] There is provided a reagent storage container within a biochip comprising a macrofluidic
block and cover, said macrofluidic block comprising: a pre-loaded reagent storage chamber
having a top end and a bottom end; a first foil seal bonded to the bottom end; a second foil seal
bonded to the top end; said cover comprising an input, positioned and configured to receive
pneumatic pressure from said biochip and deliver it to said top end, that, when, received, causes
said first and second foils to burst, and release the contents of the reagent storage chamber.
[Oli] Aspects of the present invention are described herein and in Australian specification
2011224387, from which the present specification is divided and in Australian specification

                                                 -8
2013204387, also divided from AU 2011224387. Reference may be made in the description to
subject matter which is not in the scope of the appended claims but relates to subject matter
claimed in the parent specification or other divisional specification. That subject matter should
be readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist putting into practice the
invention as defined in the appended claims.
[012]    In general, in one aspect, the technology described herein relates to biochips having
integration of all steps in a complex process from the insertion of a sample to generation of a
result, performed without operator intervention. In an embodiment, a biochip in accordance with
the present technology includes microfluidic and macrofluidic features that are acted upon by
instrument subsystems in a series of processing steps.
[013]    In another aspect, the technology relates to methods for fabrication of complex biochips
to include a high feature density. In one embodiment, the method includes injection molding of
plastic materials to form the biochip.
[014]    In another aspect, the technology relates to a biochip, which upon insertion into an
electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and
a process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one
sample.     The biochip includes: a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a
fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly.        The macrofluidic processing subassembly
includes at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample. The fluidic subassembly includes a
fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport channel and an amplification chamber adapted to
connecting to the thermal subsystem. The pneumatic subassembly is adapted to connecting to
the pneumatic subsystem of the instrument, and to the subassemblies of the biochip.           The
pneumatic subassembly includes a pneumatic plate and one or a plurality of drive lines to
pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process controller.         The biochip also
includes a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on the instrument.        The separation and detection
subassembly including a separation channel and a detection region positioned to send signals
from each of the channels to the optical subsystem on the instrument. The biochip is plastic,
stationary, and unitary and a footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is about 86 mm by
128 mm or greater (e.g., is about 100 x 150 mm or greater, about 115 x 275 mm or greater, about
115 x 275 mm or greater, about 140 x 275 or greater, 165 x 295 or greater.)
[015]    In another aspect, the technology relates to a biochip, which upon insertion into an
electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and

                                                  -9
a process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one
sample.    The biochip includes: a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a
fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly.         The macrofluidic processing subassembly
includes at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample. The fluidic subassembly includes a
fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport channel and an amplification chamber adapted to
connecting to the thermal subsystem. The pneumatic subassembly is adapted to connecting to
the pneumatic subsystem of the instrument, and to the subassemblies of the biochip.              The
pneumatic subassembly includes a pneumatic plate and one or a plurality of drive lines to
pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process controller.          The biochip also
includes a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on the instrument.        The separation and detection
subassembly including a separation channel and a detection region positioned to send signals
from each of the channels to the optical subsystem on the instrument. The biochip is plastic,
stationary, and unitary and a footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is less than 10,920.0
mm2 and does not conform to SBS standards
[016]   In another aspect, the technology relates to a biochip, which upon insertion into an
electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and
a process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one
sample.    The biochip includes a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a
fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly.         The macrofluidic processing subassembly
includes at least one macrofluidic feature located therein or thereon and a chamber capable of
receiving a sample. The fluidic subassembly includes a fluidic plate, and at least one feature
located therein or thereon.     The fluidic subassembly further comprising at least one fluid
transport channel and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem.
The pneumatic subassembly is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem of the
instrument and to the subassemblies of the biochip.        The pneumatic subassembly includes a
pneumatic plate and at least one feature located therein or thereon. The pneumatic subassembly
further includes one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions
from said process controller. The biochip also includes a separation and detection subassembly
adapted for connecting to the high voltage and optical subsystems and process controller on the
instrument.    The separation and detection subassembly includes at least one feature located
therein or thereon.    The separation and detection subassembly further includes a separation
channel and a detection region positioned to send signals from each of the channels to the optical
subsystem on the instrument. The biochip is plastic, stationary, and unitary, and a physical state

                                               -10
of the one or more features of the fluidic, pneumatic, and/or separation and detection
subassemblies are adapted to change in scripted processes of 25 or more steps (e.g., 50 or more,
100 or more, 200 or more.) In some embodiments, the scripted process steps result in two or
more resultant processing steps to occur within the biochip.
[017] In another aspect, the technology relates to a unitary, stationary biochip, which upon
insertion into an electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical
subsystems, and a process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from
at least one sample. The biochip includes a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection
with a fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly.              The macrofluidic processing
subassembly includes at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample. The fluidic subassembly
includes a fluidic plate having a top and bottom patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, to
form at least one fluid transport channel on each sides of the plate and an amplification chamber
adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem. The pneumatic subassembly which is adapted
to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem of the instrument, and to the subassemblies of said
biochip.    The pneumatic subassembly includes a pneumatic plate having a top patterned
thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, and one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive
fluids on instructions from the process controller.         The biochip also includes a valve
subassembly, positioned between and connected to the fluidic and pneumatic subassemblies and
a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and optical
subsystems and process controller on the instrument. The separation and detection subassembly
including at least one separation channel, and further comprising a detection region positioned to
send signals from each of the at least one separation channels to the optical subsystem on said
instrument.
[018]    Some of the embodiments of this aspect of the technology include one or more of the
following features.    One or more of the macrofluidic, pneumatic, fluidic, and separation and
detection subsystems is formed from plastic. In some embodiments, the valve subassembly
includes at least one elastomeric valve. In some embodiments, the valve subassembly includes
at least one non-elastomeric valve. In embodiments, the separation and detection subassembly is
oriented such that electrophoresis of the sample within the separation and detection subassembly
is conducted in the opposite direction from a general flow of sample through the fluidic plate. In
embodiments, the biochip includes all reagents needed to process the at least one sample within
the biochip.

                                                 -11
[019]   In another aspect, the technology relates to a system for processing a biological sample.
The system includes a biochip and a process controller. The biochip upon insertion into an
electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical subsystems, and
the process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one
sample.    The biochip includes a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a
fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly.         The macrofluidic processing subassembly
includes at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample. The fluidic subassembly includes a
fluidic plate having a top and bottom patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, to form at
least one fluid transport channel on each sides of the plate and an amplification chamber adapted
to connecting to the thermal subsystem.        The pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to
connecting to the pneumatic subsystem of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said
biochip, includes a pneumatic plate having a top patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon,
and one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from the process
controller. The biochip also includes a valve subassembly positioned between and connected to
said fluidic and pneumatic subassemblies and a separation and detection subassembly adapted
for connecting to the high voltage and optical subsystems and process controller on the
instrument. The separation and detection subassembly includes at least one separation channel,
and a detection region positioned to send signals from each of the at least one separation
channels to the optical subsystem on the instrument. The process controller of the instrument
includes instructions to perform 25 or more automated scripted process steps.
[020]   In another aspect, the technology features a method of manufacturing a biochip.         The
method includes injection molding a fluidic plate to include a fluidic top surface, a fluidic
bottom surface and at least one through hole extending from the fluidic top surface to the fluidic
bottom surface to connect the fluidic top surface to the bottom surface. Each of the fluidic top
and bottom surfaces include a plurality of microfluidic features.     The method further includes
injection molding a pneumatic plate to include a pneumatic top surface, a pneumatic bottom
surface and at least one through hole extending from the pneumatic top surface to the pneumatic
bottom surface to connect the pneumatic top surface to the bottom surface.              Each of the
pneumatic top and bottom surfaces comprise a plurality of microfluidic features.        The method
also includes aligning the pneumatic and fluidic plates to form the biochip, wherein a footprint of
the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is 86 mm by 128 mm or greater, and at least one of the
plurality of microfluidic features of the fluidic plate and/or the pneumatic plate includes a draft
angle of less than 2 degrees.

                                                  -12
[021]   In another aspect, the technology features a method of performing sample-in to results
out automated electrophoresis on at least one unprocessed sample in a unitary biochip having a
macrofluidic processing subassembly in fluid communication with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly. The method includes: (a) inserting the at least one unprocessed sample
into a chamber in the macrofluidic processing subassembly; (b) inserting the biochip into an
instrument having a pneumatic subsystem, a thermal subsystem, a high voltage subsystem, an
optical system, and a process controller that can accept a predefined process script and
implement the process script automatically by reading the process script and controlling the
pneumatic subsystem, a thermal subsystem, a high voltage subsystem, and optical system; (c)
activating the process controller to carry out the process script, the process script including
instructions to: (i) initialize the biochip by applying pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to
valve lines of the pneumatic subassembly or in fluid communication with the pneumatic
subassembly; (ii) purify DNA from the unprocessed sample by applying pressure from the
pneumatic subsystem to the macrofluidic processing subassembly to release reagents stored
therein, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the released reagents to form a
cell lysate from the unprocessed sample, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to
pull the lysate through a purification filter in the fluidics subassembly into a holding chamber to
bind DNA in the lysate to the filter, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to release
a wash solution stored in the macrofluidic processing subassembly to flow through the
purification filter to remove contaminants from the bound DNA; applying a pressure to flow air
through the purification filter to dry the bound DNA, applying a pressure from the pneumatic
subsystem to release an elution solution stored in the macrofluidics processing subassembly to
release the bound DNA from the purification filter, generating an eluate containing purified
DNA; (iii) transport the eluate to a reconstitution chamber containing a lyophilized PCR reaction
mix by applying pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; (iv)
transport the reconstituted PCR reaction mix to a thermal cycling chamber in the fluidics
subassembly; (v) apply heat to the thermal cycling chamber by initiating a thermal cycle protocol
to generate labeled amplicons from the PCR mixture; (vi) transport the labeled amplicons and a
formamide reagent stored in the macrofluidic processing subassembly to a joining chamber in
the fluidics subassembly by applying pressure from the pneumatics subsystem to the pneumatic
subassembly; the labeled amplicons and formamide reagent forming a formamide-PCR product
mixture; (vii) transport the formamide-PCR product mixture by applying a pressure from the
pneumatic system to the pneumatic subassembly to flow the mixture to an ILS cake chamber for
mixing with an ILS cake to generate a separation and detection sample; (viii) transport the
separation and detection sample into a cathode chamber within the fluidics subassembly by

                                               -13
applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; (ix) prepare
cathode and anode of the fluidics subassembly for separation of the separation and detection by
applying a voltage from the high voltage subsystem to bias the cathode and anode; (x) transport
gel from a gel reagent reservoir in the fluidics subassembly to a cathode chamber and waste
chamber of the fluidics subassembly by application of pressure from the pneumatics subsystem
to the pneumatic subassembly; (xi)inject and separate the separation and detection sample in the
separation channel by applying a voltage through the high voltage subsystem to a cathode and
anode; and (xii) effect fluorescence of separated components of the separation and detection
sample by activating a laser in the optical subsystem. The method also includes automatically
detecting a fluorescent signal of the separated components to provide separation and detection
sample results from at least one unprocessed samples.
[022]   In another aspect, the technology relates to a system for providing at least two types of
sample-in to results-out processing for at least one biological sample. The system includes a
stationary biochip and an instrument including pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical
subsystems for interfacing with the biochip, and a process controller.      The stationary biochip
includes a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly.       The macrofluidic processing subassembly including at least one
chamber adapted to receive a sample. The fluidic subassembly includes a fluidic plate, and at
least one fluid transport channel and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the
thermal subsystem.      The   pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the
pneumatic subsystem of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, includes a
pneumatic plate and one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions
from the process controller. The biochip also includes a separation and detection subassembly
adapted for connecting to the high voltage and optical subsystems and process controller on the
instrument.   The separation and detection subassembly including a separation channel, and a
detection region positioned to send signals from each of the channels to the optical subsystem on
the instrument.     The biochip further includes at least two distinct pathways for sample
processing.   Each of the at least two distinct pathways is dedicated to different analytical
processes. The process controller of the instrument includes a set of instructions to process the at
least one biological sample in the different analytical processes.     In some embodiments, the
different analytical processes are STR analysis and single nucleotide polymorphism analysis. In
some embodiments, the different analytical processes are multiplexed amplification and DNA
sequencing.     In some embodiments, the different analytical processes are STR analysis and
mitochondrial DNA sequencing. In some embodiments, the different analytical processes are

                                                 -14
reverse transcription PCR and conventional PCR. In some embodiments, the different analytical
processes are DNA sequencing and single nucleotide polymorphism analysis.
[023]   In another aspect, the technology relates to a reagent storage container for a biochip
including a macrofluidic block and cover. The macrofluidic block includes a reagent storage
chamber having a top end and a bottom end; a first foil seal bonded to the bottom end; and a
second foil seal bonded to the top end. A reagent is stored in the foil-sealed chamber and is
released by the application of pneumatic pressure through the cover such that the top and bottom
foils burst, releasing the contents of the reagent storage chamber.
[024]   Embodiments of the above aspect can include one or more of the following features. In
some embodiments, the reagent storage container is connected to a fluidic subassembly. In some
embodiments, the reagent storage container further includes a spacer plate placed between the
container and the fluidic subassembly such that the spacer plate is sized to accommodate
expansion of the first foil prior to bursting.
[025]            There are numerous advantages of the present technology including, but not
limited to, minimal to no operator intervention and reduced fabrication costs.
                               DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[026]   The advantages of the technology described above, together with further advantages, may
be better understood by referring to the following description taken in conjunction with the
accompanying drawings. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead generally
being placed upon illustrating the principles of the technology.
[027]   Figure 1 is a side view schematic of an embodiment of a single tube reagent storage and
release device.
[028]   Figure 2 is a photograph of an embodiment of a spacer plate included in a 5-sample
biochip set embodiment utilizing reagent storage release bursting.
[029]   Figure 3 is a cross-section view schematic of a portion of a spacer plate.
[030]   Figure 4 is a graph of burst pressure versus chamber diameter for aluminum foils of
various thicknesses.
[031]   Figure 5 is a perspective view schematic of a reagent storage release unit including six
chambers of reagent storage.

                                                -15
[032] Figure 6 is top perspective view of the reagent storage release unit of Figure 5 showing a
top foil bonded to a top end of each chamber.
[033]   Figure 7 is a top view illustration of two foils of a reagent storage release unit after
bursting.
[034]   Figure 8 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatically actuated
elastomeric valve structure.
[035]   Figure 9 is a cross-sectional view schematic of the pneumatically actuated valve structure
of Figure 8.
[036]   Figure 10 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of an elastomeric membrane valve
with PSA tape.
[037]   Figure 11 is a cross-sectional view schematic of the valve of claim 10.
[038]   Figure 12 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatically actuated valve
with a rigid valve membrane.
[039]   Figure 13 is a cross-sectional view of the pneumatically actuated valve with rigid valve
membrane of Figure 12.
[040]   Figure 14 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a clamped elastomeric membrane
valve.
[041]   Figure 15 is a cross-sectional view of the clamped elastomeric membrane valve of Figure
12.
[042]   Figure 16 is a cross-sectional view schematic of a vent membrane configuration used in
an embodiment of a biochip in accordance with the present technology.
[043]   Figure 17 is a cross-sectional view schematic of a vent membrane configuration used in
another embodiment of a biochip in accordance with the present technology.
[044]   Figure 18 is a top view schematic of a pneumatic plate with the manifold and surrounding
areas expanded of an embodiment of a biochip in accordance with the present technology.

                                                -16
[045]   Figure 19 is a bottom view schematic of a pneumatic plate with the manifold and
surrounding areas expanded of an embodiment of a biochip in accordance with the present
technology.
[046]   Figure 20 is a transparent view schematic of a fluidic plate with the purification region
and surrounding areas expanded of an embodiment of a biochip in accordance with the present
technology.
[047]   Figure 21 is a photograph of a pneumatically activated cylinder used to exert a controlled
force onto a biochip.
[048]   Figure 22 is a bar graph comparing signal strength at each STR locus for various
pressures applied to the biochip by the pneumatically activated cylinder of Figure 21.      In the
graph, pressures of 75, 112, 187, 224, 299, and 336 psig were applied, and, for each locus, signal
strengths are recorded for each pressure (increasing pressures from left to right).
[049]   Figure 23 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of an injection molded biochip in
accordance with the present technology.
[050]   Figure 24 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of fluidic layer 1 of a biochip in
accordance with the present technology.
[051]   Figure 25 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a fluidic layer 2 of a biochip in
accordance with the present technology.
[052]   Figure 26 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatics layer I of a biochip
in accordance with the present technology.
[053]   Figure 27 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatic later 2 of a biochip
in accordance with the present technology.
[054]   Figure 28 is a transparent top view schematic of an embodiment of a fluidics
subassembly including the first fluidic plate of Figure 24 bonded to the second fluidic plate of
Figure 25.
[055]   Figure 29 is a transparent top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatic
subassembly including the first pneumatic plate of Figure 26 bonded to the second pneumatic
plate of Figure 27.

                                                -17
[056] Figure 30 is a transparent top view schematic of a biochip formed by the attachment of
the pneumatics subassembly of Figure 29 to the fluidics subassembly of Figure 28.
[057]    Figure 31 is a photograph of an embodiment of a pneumatic and thermal cycling
instrument for use in connection with biochips.
[058]    Figure 32 is a STR profile for a PCR analysis of a sample within a biochip in accordance
with the present technology.
[059]    Figure 33 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a fluidic plate included in an
embodiment of a fluidic assembly in accordance with the present technology.
[060]    Figure 34 is a bottom view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 33.
[061]    Figure 35 is a transparent view schematic of the fluidic plate showing the features of both
the top and bottom sides of the plate.
[062]    Figure 36 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a patterned thin film for
attachment to the top of the fluidic plate.
[063]    Figure 37 is a bottom view schematic of an embodiment of a patterned thin film for
attachment to the bottom of the fluidic plate.
[064]    Figure 38 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a fluidic plate with a line
illustrating a path a single sample takes through the fluidic plate.
[065]    Figure 39 is a top expanded view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 38 showing a
portion of the path through a purification region.
[066]    Figure 40 is a top expanded view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 38 showing a
portion of the path through an amplification region.
[067]    Figure 41 is a top expanded view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 38 showing a
portion of the path through a separation and detection region.
[068]    Figure 42 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatic plate included in an
embodiment of a pneumatic assembly in accordance with the present technology.
[069]    Figure 43 is a bottom view schematic of the pneumatic plate of Figure 42.

                                                 -18
[070] Figure 44 is a transparent view of the pneumatic plate of Figure 42 showing the features
of both top and bottom sides of the pneumatic plate.
[071]   Figure 45 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a patterned thin film for
attachment to the top side of the pneumatic plate.
[072]   Figure 46 is a bottom view schematic of an embodiment of a patterned thin film for
attachment to the bottom side of the pneumatic plate.
[073]   Figure 47 is a transparent view schematic of an embodiment of macrofluidic block
included in an embodiment of a macrofluidic processing subassembly.
[074]   Figure 48 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a top layer of a cover to the
macrofluidic block.
[075]   Figure 49 is a bottom view schematic of an embodiment of a top layer of the cover.
[076]   Figure 50 is a top transparent view schematic of the top layer of the cover.
[077]   Figure 51 is a top view schematic of another embodiment of a second layer of a cover to
the macrofluidic block.
[078]   Figure 52 is a top view schematic of another embodiment of a third layer of a cover to the
macrofluidic block.
[079]   Figure 53 is a bottom view schematic of an embodiment of a third layer to the cover of
Figure 52.
[080]   Figure 54 is a transparent top view schematic of a third layer to the cover.
[081]   Figure 55 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a separation and detection biochip
for pressure injection.
[082]   Figure 56 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a separation and detection biochip
for cross injection for electrokinetic transport of a sample.
[083]   Figure 57 is a side view schematic stack up of an embodiment of a biochip in accordance
with the present technology.
[084]   Figure 58 is a photograph of an embodiment of a biochip assembly in accordance with
the present technology and including arrows to indicate the direction of process flows.

                                                 -19
[085] Figure 59 is a photograph of the biochip assembly of Figure 58. The biochip assembly
interfaces with an optical subsystem, a thermal subsystem, a high voltage subsystem and
pneumatic subsystem, and process control subsystem.
[086]    Figure 60 is a control electropherogram generated for the control ILS sample (fragments
fluorescently labeled with ROX) within an embodiment of a biochip in accordance with the
present technology.
[087]    Figure 61 is an electropherogram showing the sizes of the STR fragments generated for
one buccal swab sample following an automated script. Each of fluorescent dyes used to label
the STR primers in the PCR reaction mix and the ILS are shown in individual panels.
Fluorescein-labeled fragments are shown in the top panel, JOE-labeled fragments are shown in
the second panel from the top, TAMRA-labeled fragments are shown in the third panel from the
top, and ROX-labeled ILS fragments are shown in the bottom panel.
[088]    Figure 62 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a fluidic plate of a fluidic
subassembly in accordance with the present technology.
[089]    Figure 63 is a bottom view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 62.
[090]    Figure 64 is a transparent view schematic of the fluidic plate showing both top side
features of Figure 62 and bottom side features of Figure 63.
[091]    Figure 65 is a photograph of an embodiment of an injection molded fluidic plate.
[092]    Figure 66 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a top patterned thin film for
attachment to the top side of the fluidic plate of Figure 65.
[093]    Figure 67 is a bottom view schematic of an embodiment of a bottom patterned thin film
for attachment to the bottom side of the fluidic plate of Figure 65.
[094]    Figure 68 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a fluidic plate with a line
illustrating a path of a single sample takes through the fluidic plate.
[095]    Figure 69 is a top expanded view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 68 showing a
portion of the path through a purification region.
[096]    Figure 70 is a top expanded view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 68 showing a
portion of the path through a PCR section.

                                                 -20
[097] Figure 71 is a top expanded view schematic of the fluidic plate of Figure 68 showing a
portion of the path through a separation and detection region.
[098]    Figure 72 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a pneumatic plate of a pneumatic
assembly in accordance with the present technology.
[099]    Figure 73 is a bottom view schematic of the pneumatic plate of Figure 72.
[0100] Figure 74 is a transparent top view of the pneumatic plate showing both top and bottom
sides of the pneumatic plate of Figures 72 and 73.
[0101] Figure 75 is a photograph of an embodiment of an injection molded pneumatic plate.
[0102] Figure 76 is a top view schematic of an embodiment of a patterned thin film for
attachment to a top side of the injection molded pneumatic plate of Figure 75.
[0103] Figure 77 is a table representing a relationship of scripted processing steps and resulting
processing steps for a portion of an automated process for use on a biochip.
[0104] Figure 78 is a flowchart of an embodiment of a sample splitting and dilution microfluidic
circuit.
[0105] Figure 79 is a graph showing background fluorescence of several materials at different
thicknesses.
[0106] Figure 80 is a table summarizing results of fluorescence data collected with and without a
notch filter.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0107] The biochips described herein achieve the fundamental goal of the field of microfluidics:
the integration of all steps in a complex process, from the insertion of a sample to the generation
of a result, performed in a single instrument without operator intervention. In one aspect, we
present herein novel biochips that are fully integrated and capable of performing complex sample
in to results out analyses including cell lysis, DNA purification, multiplexed amplification, and
electrophoretic separation and detection to generate short tandem repeat (STR) profiles from
forensic samples; cell lysis, DNA purification, multiplexed amplification, Sanger sequencing,
ultrafiltration, and electrophoretic separation and detection to generate DNA sequence from
clinical samples; nucleic acid purification, reverse transcription, multiplexed amplification,
Sanger sequencing, ultrafiltration, and electrophoretic separation and detection to generate DNA

                                                 -21
sequence from biothreat samples, and nucleic acid purification, library construction, and single
molecule sequencing to generate genomic DNA sequences from human, bacterial, and viral
clinical and research samples.
[0108] Sample manipulations that can be performed in the biochips of the invention include
combinations of nucleic acid extraction; cell lysis; cell separation; differential cell lysis;
differential filtration; total nucleic acid purification; DNA purification; RNA purification;
mRNA purification; protein purification; pre-nucleic acid amplification cleanup; nucleic acid
amplification (e.g. both singleplex and multiplex end-point PCR, Real-time PCR, reverse
transcription PCR, asymmetric PCR, nested PCR, LATE PCR, touchdown PCR, digital PCR,
rolling circle amplification, strand displacement amplification, and multiple displacement
amplification); Y-STR amplification; mini-STR amplification; single nucleotide polymorphism
analysis; VNTR analysis; RFLP analysis; post-nucleic acid amplification cleanup; pre-nucleic
acid sequencing cleanup; nucleic acid sequencing (e.g. Sanger sequencing, pyrosequencing, and
single molecule sequencing); post-nucleic acid sequencing cleanup; reverse transcription; pre
reverse transcription cleanup; post-reverse transcription cleanup; nucleic acid ligation; SNP
analysis; nucleic acid hybridization; electrophoretic separation and detection; immunoassays;
binding assays; protein assays; enzymatic assays; mass spectroscopy; and nucleic acid and
protein quantification.
[0109] When characterizing the structure and functions of a biochip, at least two classes of
complexity can be considered. Sample number complexity refers to the number of independent
samples that are processed on the biochip. Process complexity refers to the number of sequential
manipulations to which each sample (and sample byproducts) is subjected on the biochip. The
biochips of the invention have high levels of both sample number and process complexities.
[0110] In another aspect, the novel biochips of the invention integrate a large number of
processing steps in order to achieve a fully integrated, sample-in to results-out system. We define
two categories of biochip processing steps to express the complexity of these biochips. Scripted
processing steps are the actions performed as a result of automated, computer-controlled scripts
that cause a direct action on a feature within or on the biochip and involve various subsystems of
the instrument that interface with the biochip. The actions cause a change to the physical state of
a feature in the biochip (e.g. a valve membrane is moved to close a valve) or to a sample or air
within the biochip (e.g. a fluorescent dye in a sample is excited, air is passed through a
pneumatic drive). In addition, the action can cause a change to the physical state of a feature in

                                                 -22
the biochip and a sample within the biochip simultaneously (e.g. when the thermal chambers are
heated, the sample within them are also heated).
[0111] The instrument subsystems perform the scripted actions and include the pneumatic
subsystem, which applies pressure to burst foils, increase and reduce pressure on valves, and
push liquids, gasses, and solids; the high voltage subsystem, which applies an electrical current
to electrophorese macromolecules; the optical subsystem, which applies light to excite and detect
a sample in electrophoresis, quantitation, amplification, immunoassays, and chemical assays; and
the thermal    subsystem, which       applies heat for cell lysis,       nucleic acid  denaturation,
electrophoretic uniformity, thermal cycling, and cycle sequencing. That is, every scripted
processing step is a specific instruction of an automated script.
[0112] The scripted process steps define direct actions that take place on features within or on
the biochip via an interface with a subsystem of the instrument. The biochip features can be
microfluidic, macrofluidic, or a combination of both, and the script acts upon these features at
defined locations in a defined sequence. For example, the actuation of a given valve on the
biochip is considered a single scripted process step, even if several changes to the instrument are
required as prerequisites to effect that single step (e.g. activating a pump and drive line to allow
the valve to be closed).
[0113] In quantifying the number of scripted process steps, directly repetitive steps such as those
in PCR amplification (e.g. many directly repeating cycles of denaturation, annealing, and
extension, each characterized by a change in temperature) are considered as the number of steps
in a single cycle. That is to say, a PCR amplification reaction that consists of Hotstart 93 'C for
20 seconds (1 step) followed by 31 cycles of [93 'C for 4 seconds, 56 'C for 15 seconds, and 70
'C for 7 seconds] (3 steps) followed by a final extension of 70 'C for 90 seconds (1 step)
represents a total of 5 scripted processing steps.    One feature can be acted upon during one or
more scripted process steps. In this case, each independent act counts as one step; for example, if
a given valve is actuated seven times during a process, this would count as 7 steps. Several
features can be acted upon in parallel during the process of an individual sample. For example, if
three valves are actuated while a chamber of the biochip is heated, this would count as four
scripted processing steps (in other words, four new actions performed on features on or within
the biochip). Finally, once raw data is generated from the process, any data processing (e.g. color
correction) or data analysis (e.g. allele or base calling) are not scripted processing steps. The
biochips of the current invention perform 25, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 250, 300, 400,
500, 750, 1000, and greater than 1000 scripted processing steps.

                                                -23
[0114] Resultant processing steps are the effects of scripted processing steps and include the
movement of the liquid sample throughout the biochip through channels, chambers, and filter
and membrane features; the drying of filters and membranes, the thermal cycling of reaction
mixes; the resuspension of lyophilized reagents, the joining of various liquids, the mixing of
liquids, the homogenization of liquids, the electrophoretic transport of sample macromolecules
through various matrices, and the excitation of those macromolecules. It follows that the number
of scripted processing steps will generally be greater than (and never be less than) the resultant
processing steps. For example, it may be necessary to close several valves and change several
driveline pneumatic pressures (multiple scripted processing steps) to cause the movement of a
fluid plug from a given channel to an adjacent chamber (a single resultant processing step).
Example 6 and Figure 77 describe the relationship between scripted and resultant processing
steps for a portion of an automated scripted. The biochips of the current invention perform 2, 5,
10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 250, and greater than
250 resultant process steps.
[0115] Total processing steps is the sum of the scripted and resultant processing steps. The
greater the number of total processing steps, the greater the process complexity. The biochips of
the current invention perform 25, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 250, 300, 400, 500, 750, 1000,
1500, 2000, and greater than 2000 total processing steps. Scripted, resultant, and total processing
steps refer to the processing of a single sample. If multiple samples are processed in parallel on a
given biochip, the total number of processing steps is, by convention, the same as if only one
sample is processed. Similarly, if multiple samples are processed identically in series (e.g. if a
first sample passes through the biochip and then a second sample follows behind it, undergoing
the same process), the total number of processing steps is the same as if only single sample is
processed. The importance of these distinctions is that the complexity biochips of the invention
is based on the intricate series of manipulations of a single sample as opposed to biochips that
perform relatively small numbers of process steps but repeat them on small or large numbers of
samples.
[0116] The biochips of the invention allow integration of two or more of the functions noted
above. Accordingly, a limitless number of combinations can be designed into the biochip,
allowing a complex set of manipulations to be completed on the biochip. Process complexity
will involve a number of manipulations based on the microfluidic elements noted above. For
example, the biochips of the invention accepting a sample, potentiate mixing of lysis reagents,
lyse the sample by chaotic bubbling, filter the lysate, meter the lysate, bind the lysate to a silica
membrane, washing the membrane, elute nucleic acids from the membrane, homogenize the

                                                  -24
eluate to yield a purified DNA solution, meter the DNA solution, reconstitute a lyophilized PCR
reaction mix to yield a PCR reaction, mix and homogenize the reaction mix, meter the reaction
mix, conduct rapid multiplexed amplification, meter a portion of the completed PCR reaction,
reconstitute a sizing standard with the metered PCR reaction to yield a solution for
electrophoresis, mix and homogenize the solution, combine the solution with reagents for
electrophoresis, inject the material into an electrophoretic channel, conduct electrophoretic
separation, detect      the   separated  DNA    fragments   based on fluorescence,      generate   an
electropherogramn based on the raw fluorescence data, color correct the raw data, identify the
PCR peaks in the processed data, and analyze the called peaks (e.g. to generate an STR profile
for human forensic identification, to generate a multiplexed profile for diagnosing an infectious
disease, or to generate a multiplexed profile to identify a biothreat agent). One skilled in the art
will appreciate that the biochips of the invention can be designed to perform a multitude of
different types of analysis with essentially limitless process complexity.
                                  OVERVIEW OF BIOCHIP DESIGN
[0117] The biochips of the invention are unitary and represent a single, solitary structure. These
unitary biochips are comprised of many component parts, but all the parts, whether microfluidic
or macrofluidic, are directly and permanently attached, without the use of tubing to carry liquid,
solids, or gasses from one portion of the biochip to another. An advantage of unitary biochips is
that it can be placed into the corresponding instrument as a unit, requiring no technical skill on
the part of the operator. Furthermore, the absence of connecting tubes enhances robustness by
minimizing leakage.
[0118] Preferably, the major components of the unitary biochips of the invention are plastics.
Glass, quartz, and silicon wafers are absent or minimized in the inventive biochips as they are
quite costly to fabricate. It is preferable that all components (with the exception of inserted
elements such as reagents, filters, membranes, metal foils, electrode pins, and electrode strips
and assembly materials such as gaskets, pressure sensitive adhesives (PSA) and tapes) are made
of plastic. It is also preferred that each sample pathway in the biochip is single use; this prevents
run-to-run contamination, simplifies design, and enhances ease of use. Accordingly, in one
aspect, this invention provides single use, disposable plastic biochips.
[0119] We define two broad classes of microfluidic biochips based on the drive mechanisms
used to transfer solutions within them. Centrifugal microfluidic biochips have circular footprints
and rotate to provide centrifugal force to drive fluids from location to location within the
biochip.    Stationary (or non-centrifugal) microfluidic biochips have a wide range of footprints

                                                 -25
(including rectangular or substantially-rectangular footprints) and are characterized by drives
that are not provided by rotation of the biochip.
[0120] Biochips of this invention are stationary, meaning that they do not require rotation to
generate centrifugal force to drive fluids throughout the biochip (although the biochips can be
subjected to movement in general and translational movement in particular).            Instead, the
biochips of the inventions have drive mechanisms that include pneumatic, mechanical, magnetic,
and fluidic. A variety of methods can be used for liquid transport and controlled liquid flow. One
method is positive-displacement pumping, in that a plunger in contact with either the liquid or an
interposing gas drives the liquid a precise distance based on the volume displaced by the plunger
during the motion. An example of such a method is a syringe pump. Another method is the use
of integrated elastomeric membranes that are pneumatically, magnetically, or otherwise actuated.
A preferred method for driving fluids and controlling flow rates is to use a pneumatic drive to
apply vacuum or pressure directly on the liquids themselves, by altering the pressure at the
leading, trailing, or both menisci of the liquids. Appropriate pressures (typically in the range of
0.05-300 psig and usually in the range of 0.5-30 psig) are applied to achieve desired flow
characteristics.   Flow can also be controlled by selecting appropriate sizing of the fluidic
channels, as the flow rate is proportional to the pressure differential across the fluid and the
hydraulic diameter to the fourth power and inversely proportional to the length of the channel or
the liquid plug and the viscosity.     Furthermore, flow can be controlled and parallel samples
aligned by incorporating vent membranes along the flow channel.
[0121] The biochips of the invention function with a single instrument to carry out a complex
chemical analysis. The inventive biochips described herein improve processing efficiency and
data quality by eliminating sample transfer from instrument to instrument, improving ease of use
by minimizing or eliminating operator requirements (a single machine may, using an appropriate
script and user interface), eliminate any need for operator actions, improving the ability to
ruggedize the system (all ruggedization subsystems can be incorporating into a single
instrument), and reducing the cost of the instrumentation required as well as the laboratory
infrastructure required to process samples. In fact, in one embodiment, having the biochip
function in a single instrument can obviate the need for a laboratory environment.
[0122] The instrument provides all the subsystems required for the completion of sample
processing. These subsystems include high and low voltage power subsystems, thermal cycling
subsystems, pneumatic subsystems, magnetic subsystems, mechanical subsystems, ultrasonic
subsystems, optical subsystems, ruggedization subsystems, process control subsystems, and

                                                   -26
computer subsystems.        The instrument to biochip interface may involve one or more of these
subsystems, depending on the microfluidic drive and the series of processes to be performed
within the biochip.      In the case of the examples herein, the interface of the biochips and the
instrument are pneumatic, electrical, optical, and mechanical. The size of the instrument is
determined by subsystem dimensions, biochip dimensions, and throughput.            The instruments
may weigh approximately 10 pounds, 25 pounds, 50 pounds, 100 pounds, 150 pounds, 200
pounds, or greater than 200 pounds. Similarly, the volume of the instrument may be 0.5 cubic
feet, or 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, 15, 20 or greater than 20 cubic feet.
[0123] Furthermore, the biochip and instrumentation of the invention are designed to be operable
outside of conventional laboratory environments. Depending upon the application, they can be
ruggedized to withstand transport and extremes of temperature, humidity, and airborne
particulates. Use of the invention by non-technical operators in offices, out of doors, in the
battlefield, in airports, at borders and ports, and at the point-of-care will allow much broader
application of genetic technology in society. The use of unprocessed samples further supports the
broad application of the teachings of the invention.
[0124] The inventive microfluidic systems, instruments and biochips set forth herein can be
single- or multi-use. The advantages of single-use disposable biochips include:
*   Minimization of cross contamination. In a multi-use device, the sample or a component of
    the sample may be present in the device following washing; the remnant may contaminate a
    subsequent analysis.      Single-use disposable devices are inherently free of remnant sample.
    This is achieved, in part, by the novel sample processing channels and methods of
    manufacturing them, in which there is no sample-to-sample channel communication.
*   Minimization of technical requirements. A multi-use device requires equipment to clean a
    spent device and prepare it for subsequent reuse. The single-use disposables of this invention
    are not burdened by these requirements.
*   Minimization of operatorrequirements. In addition to the skill required to carefully clean and
    prepare a spent device for subsequent use, reagents must be reloaded into a multiuse device
    either by insertion into the device or the instrument.     By incorporating all reagents into a
    single-use disposable microfluidic device, the operator need not manipulate or be exposed to
    reagents at all.     The operator need only insert the sample into the device and press a start
    button. It follows that the inventive biochips described herein can be operated by unskilled
    or minimally trained operators and may be performed outside the typical laboratory
    environment. Analysis of samples at the point-of-care, the battlefield, military checkpoints,

                                                 -27
    embassies, sites critical to national security, and developing regions of the world is possible
    with these inventive biochips. Autonomous collection and analysis of samples as applied to
    applications including biothreat detection also benefit from a minimization of operator
    requirements. Work describing an approach that essentially eliminates sample handling
    requirements, further simplifying and broadening the possibilities for analytic methodologies
    is described in US Patent App. Ser. No. 12/699,564, filed February 3, 2010, entitled "Nucleic
    Acid Purification," which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
*   Increase in System Throughput. The minimization of technical and operator requirements
    allows an increase of the number of samples analyzed per unit time. The dense packing of
    features allows for processing multiple samples in parallel, and the use of large biochips
    allows further increase in throughput. Furthermore, the reversal of the direction of process
    flow (e.g. electrophoresis vis a vis purification and amplification) allows for a smaller, more
    compact biochip and instrument.
*   Minimization of Cost. Minimization of labor requirements and elimination of overhead
    reduce costs.
[0125] The inventive biochips described herein may have dimensions greater than that of the
SBS standard microtiter plate. The dimensions of the biochip footprint are 86 by 128 or greater,
100 x 150 mm or greater, 115 x 275, mm or greater, 140 x 275 or greater, and 165 x 295 or
greater. Also the inventive biochips encompass footprints of less than 10,920.0 mm2 that do not
conform to SBS standards. The teachings of the invention allow the design and fabrication of
biochips with an unprecedented degree of sample number complexity and process complexity.
There is no limit to the possible dimensions of the biochip footprint. The footprint can be made
in accordance to the needs of a particular user and requirements of a given application.
[0126] As the sample number and process complexities of the biochips of the invention increase,
the feature density of the biochips increases. In this context, microfluidic features are defined as
any area of the layer in question that is either cut into by CNC-machining or molded around by
injection molding. Feature density is the ratio of the number of microfluidic features to the
surface area of the layer in question. For example, the biochips of Example 5 and 6 have the
following densities:   the top and bottom of the fluidics layer have approximately 20.2% and
6.6% respectively of their surface areas occupied by microfluidic features. The top and bottom of
the pneumatics layer have 7.5% and 8.8% of their surface areas occupied by microfluidic
features. The 16-sample version of the same biochip occupies essentially the same footprint yet
has even higher densities:     19% and 13.7% for fluidics and 18.3% and 25% for pneumatics.
Local densities on the layers can be 60% or higher (certain regions of the biochips of Examples

                                                -28
4, 5, and 6 have local densities of over 64% in regions of approximately 3 cm2. The pneumatics
and fluidic biochips of the invention have 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, and greater
than 80% of their surface areas occupied by microfluidic features. Macrofluidic features also
contribute to density.
                     FEATURES OF THE BIOCHIPS OF THE INVENTION
[0127] The biochips of the invention comprise thermoplastic layers that contain microfluidic
features such as one or more fluid transport channels (which may be independent, connected, or
networked), through holes, alignment features, liquid and lyophilized reagent storage chambers,
reagent release chambers, pumps, metering chambers, lyophilized cake reconstitution chambers,
ultrasonic chambers, joining and mixing chambers, mixing elements, membrane regions,
filtration regions, venting elements, heating elements, magnetic elements, reaction chambers,
waste chambers, membrane regions, thermal transfer regions, anodes, cathodes, and detection
regions, drives, valve lines, valve structures, assembly features, instrument interface regions,
optical windows, thermal windows, and detection regions. The biochips may also contain
macrofluidic features, that is, features that are larger versions of the same types as the
microfluidic features listed above. For example, the biochip may contain a microfluidic reagent
storage chamber that fold 30 microliters of liquid and a macrofluidic reagent storage chamber
that holds five milliliters of liquid. The incorporation of both microfluidic and macrofluidic
features on the biochips of the invention allow a given biochip to meet both macrofluidic and
microfluidic processing requirements. This is an advantage when samples requiring relatively
large volumes (such as a forensic swab or a clinical blood sample) are to be processed at a
microfluidic scale.
[0128] The biochips may also incorporate thin films including patterned thin films, spacer
layers, adhesive layers, elastic and non-elastic layers, and detection regions. The biochips may
also incorporate layers with features based on particular drive mechanisms (e.g. actuation lines
for pneumatic, mechanical, magnetic, and fluidic drives). Note that the microfluidic biochips
may also contain macrofluidic regions, particularly for processing forensic, clinical diagnostic,
and biothreat samples.
[0129] The biochips of the invention allow nucleic acids and other biological components from
unprocessed biological samples to be purified, manipulated, and analyzed. Unprocessed
biological samples are those that are collected by an individual and then inserted into the sample
receiving chamber of the biochip with no intermediate processing steps (although the sample
collection device may be labeled and/or stored prior to processing).      The operator need only

                                                 -29
collect or otherwise obtain the sample, insert the sample into the apparatus, insert the apparatus
into the instrument (not necessary if the apparatus was previously placed in the instrument), and
press a start button. No processing, manipulation, or modification of the sample is required prior
to insertion in the apparatus--the operator does not have to cut a swab, open a blood tube, collect
a tissues or biologic fluid, transfer a sample to another holder, or expose the sample to a reagent
or a condition (e.g. heat, cold, vibration). Accordingly, the operator need not have extensive
training in the biological sciences or laboratory techniques.      Optionally, the biochips of the
invention can accept processed biological samples (e.g. a cell lysate for subsequent purification),
but such applications may require an operator with technical training.
[0130] In practice, biological samples are collected using a myriad of collection devices, all of
which can be used with the biochips of the invention. The collection devices will generally be
commercially available but can also be specifically designed and manufactured for a given
application.   For clinical samples, a variety of commercial swab types are available including
nasal, nasophaiyngeal, buccal, oral fluid, stool, tonsil, vaginal, cervical, and wound swabs. The
dimensions and materials of the sample collection devices vary, and the devices may contain
specialized handles, caps, scores to facilitate and direct breakage, and collection matrices. Blood
samples are collected in a wide variety of commercially available tubes of varying volumes,
some of which contain additives (including anticoagulants such as heparin, citrate, and EDTA), a
vacuum to facilitate sample entry, a stopper to facilitate needle insertion, and coverings to
protect the operator from exposure to the sample.          Tissue and bodily fluids (e.g. sputum,
purulent material, aspirates) are also collected in tubes, generally distinct from blood tubes.
These clinical sample collection devices are generally sent to sophisticated hospital or
commercial clinical laboratories for testing (although certain testing such as the evaluation of
throat/tonsillar swabs for rapid streptococcal tests can be performed at the point of care).
Environmental samples may be present as filters or filter cartridges (e.g. from air breathers,
aerosols or water filtration devices), swabs, powders, or fluids.
[013 1] A common collection technique for forensic evidence is performed using a swab. Swabs
are commercially available from Bode (Lorton, VA), Puritan (Guilford, ME), Fitzco (Spring
Park, MN), Boca (Coral Springs, FL), Copan (Murrieta, CA) and Starplex (Etobicoke, ON,
Canada). Swabbing can also be performed using gauze-like materials, disposable brushes, or
commercially available biological sampling kits. Forensic samples may contain blood, semen,
epithelial cells, urine, saliva, stool, various tissues, and bone. Biological evidence from an
individual that is present in person is often collected using buccal swabs.         A widely used
commercial buccal swab is the SecurSwab (The Bode Technology Group, Lorton, VA). Buccal

                                                 -30
samples are collected by instructing the subject or operator to place the swab into the mouth on
the inner cheek surface and to move the swab up and down one or more times.
[0132] Another major advantage of the biochips of the invention is the ability to perform
complex processes on multiple samples in parallel. It is important to note that the biochip's
flexibility allows multiple samples to be processed using the identical set of manipulations or
each sample (or subset of samples) to be processed using a tailored set of manipulations. In
addition, several independent analyses can be performed on a given sample. For example, a
forensic sample could be analyzed by isolating DNA and then performing STR analysis, SNP
analysis, and mitochondrial sequencing on the purified material.       Similarly, a clinical sample
could be analyzed by purifying nucleic acids and proteins and performing PCR, reverse
transcription PCR, DNA sequencing, and immunoassays, allowing (for example) a given sample
to be interrogated for a large number of pathogens and cellular processes simultaneously on a
single biochip. We describe herein numerous solutions to different desired functionalities as well
as solutions to different integration issues. These are provided for illustration and not by way of
limitation, as one skilled in the art will be able to adapt these components and integration
techniques to a variety of biochips and instruments for a variety of uses.
[0133] A series of software and firmware is required for biochip operation and data analysis. The
instrument hardware is controlled by software and firmware that dictate component function and
perform instrument self-testing. An automated script controls all interactions of the instrument
with the biochip, including the application of all scripted process steps. Analytical software
performs both the processing of raw data (e.g. color correction of an electropherogram) and
analysis if the results of the assay (e.g. fragment sizing, STR allele calling, DNA sequence
analysis). The instrument may contain a graphical user interface that allows the user to initiate
the process and inform the user of process status. Finally, the system may store relevant
analytical comparators (e.g. STR profiles from individuals of interest or DNA sequence of
pathogens), or the system may port out results for external database matching and further
analyses.
                                     BIOCHIP FABRICATION
[0134] The invention provides methods for fabricating biochips that are fully integrated, require
no pre-process sample preparation, are not limited by the SBS size range and can be significantly
larger, are not limited to microtiter formats, incorporate sample number complexity and process
complexity.

                                                 -31
[0135] The biochips can be fabricated from thermoplastic polymers including polyethylene,
polypropylene, polycarbonate, polystyrene, polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA), polyethylene
terephthalate (PET), cyclic olefin polymer (COP), and cyclic olefin copolymer (COC), and other
polymers which are suitable to mass-production in accordance with the novel methods claimed
herein. The biochips can be fabricated by CNC-machining of large plates (including those larger
than SBS standard plates), and the blank plates for CNC-machining may be injected molded
themselves. The biochips can also be made by injection molding of large plates (including those
larger than SBS standard plates). Optionally, the biochips can be coated (either prior to, at an
intermediate step during, or following assembly) to enhance performance. A wide range of
coatings and treatments can be applied. For example, exposing channels with 0.5% bovine serum
albumin reduces binding of proteins present in the sample to channel walls. Hydrophobic
products such as PFC 502A (Cytonix, Beltsville, MD) can be applied to channels, chambers, and
valves to minimize bubble formation. Similarly, the elastomeric or non-elastomeric membranes
of pneumatic and mechanical valve structures can be coated or otherwise treated to provide
optimal sealing properties.
[0136] Yet another aspect of this invention is biochips and methods for making them that solve
the problems of fabricating large biochips to perform intricate series of processing steps in
parallel to allow multiple samples to be processed on the same biochip. Whether the biochip is
fabricated by CNC-machining or injection molding, this complexity is achieved by packing the
fine features densely together, in certain regions of the biochip, leaving space between them to
allow bonding while maximizing aspect ratios. The injection molded biochips are designed and
fabricated such that they are flat, suffer minimal warpage, have defined shrinkage characteristics
during fabrication and bonding, and have appropriate alignment tolerances to support the
features that allow process step complexity.
[0137] The     biochips of the invention       include several subassemblies    including fluidic
subassemblies,    pneumatic    subassemblies,    valve  subassemblies,   macrofluidic  processing
subassemblies, and separation and detection subassemblies. Not all subassemblies are required
for a given biochip. For example, if macrofluidic sample volumes and on-chip reagents are not
required, the macrofluidic subassembly is not necessary. Nevertheless, the biochips of the
invention will generally have at least one CNC-machined, embossed, extruded, or injection
molded layer.     A single layer would contain both fluidic features and the control features
required to transfer fluids from one region of the biochip to another. In many cases, a separate
fluidic layer and control layer are preferred, allowing for increased process complexity. The
layer or layers may have features on either one or both sides; the advantages of dual-sided

                                                -32
features is increased process complexity, feature density, and sample number, decreased
fabrication cost, and ease of assembly. When multiple layers are utilized, they may be bonded
together using a number of techniques known in the art such as thermal bonding, solvent
bonding, adhesive bonding, and ultrasonic welding (reviewed in Tsao. C.-W. (2009). Bonding of
thermoplastic polymer microfluidics. Microfluidics and Nanofluidics 6: 1-16).      In considering
the number of layers in a microfluidic biochip, it is advisable to utilize the fewest number of
layers that allows both the desired complexity to be achieved. Minimizing layer number reduces
the complexity of fabrication and assembly and ultimately, the cost of manufacturing the
biochip.
[0138] Another aspect of the fabrication of the biochips of the invention concerns the layers
located on the top and bottom of the various subassemblies. The purpose of these intermediate
layers, termed "thin films", includes bonding the CNC-machined or injection molded layers to
each other, externally sealing the CNC-machined or injection molded layers, providing thermal
coupling between the instrument and chambers within the layers, providing appropriate optical
characteristics to allow efficient excitation and detection by components within the instrument,
providing conduits between layers, supporting membranes, filters, and other elements, and
providing material for valving in tandem with the injection molded layers. Non-elastomeric thin
film materials include polyethylene, polypropylene, polycarbonate, polystyrene, cyclic olefin
polymer, cyclic olefin copolymer, acrylic, polyethylene terephthalate, aluminum, and cellulose
triacetate. Elastomeric thin film materials include a wide range of rubbers (including silicone)
and thermoplastic elastomers as described in Plastics: Materials and Processing Third Edition
(ibid). These films can range in thickness from 1 micron to 500 microns.
[0139] As the CNC-machined or injection molded layers and thin films are bound together to
form the biochip, fluid communication between and across layers is provided by through-holes.
Through-holes are features that pass from top to bottom of a given layer to allow a liquid to
move from one layer to another. Through-holes can take essentially any shape and are frequently
cylindrical.   The biochips of the invention provide large numbers of through holes to enable
sample number complexity and process complexity.           For example, the injection molded 6
sample biochips of Example 6 and their 16-sample counterparts contain the following through
holes:

                                                 -33
                                             6-Sample                 16-Sample
               Top Pneumatic Film               117                       346
                    Pneumatic Plate             334                        848
               Rigid Patterned Film             131                       346
                      Fluidics Plate            299                       1019
               Bottom Fluidic Film               14                        94
              Embossed S&D Film                  34                        94
                   S&D Cover Film                 0                         0
[0140] Note that "S&D" refers to "separation and injection." Taken together, these parts of the
6-sample biochip (exclusive of the macrofluidic processing subassembly) contain 929 through
holes and the 16-sample assembly contains 2747 though-holes. The biochips of the invention
contain 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, or more than
2000 through-holes. When total microfluidic features (including through-holes) are considered,
the biochips of the invention have 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 7500, 10,000 or more features.
[0141] With a large number of features per layer, the layers of the biochips of the invention must
be aligned properly to all layers as well as to the various sites of instrument interfacing. A factor
in alignment concerns the shrinkage of parts during bonding, and particularly during thermal
bonding; the alignment problem is exacerbated by differential shrinkage of parts. The biochips of
the invention are designed and assembled to account for differential shrinkage. For ease of
assembly, the part with the greatest number of features is utilized as the shrinkage standard. That
is to say, it is designed such that, following bonding, its size is that required for interfacing with
the instrument. The sizes of all other parts are scaled such that, following bonding, they align
with the standard plate.
[0142] Alignment at the sites of instrument interfacing is achieved by sizing and placing
interface features appropriately. For example, the pneumatic interfaces of the invention consist
of several dozen ports. Instead of being spread throughout the pneumatic layer of the biochip,
they are concentrated centrally. Although the pneumatic layer as a whole shrinks, the much
smaller pneumatic interface region shrinks much less. In addition, the biochips have alignment
features for assembly, which include alignment holes incorporated within the fluidic and
pneumatic layers. To align the fluidic to the pneumatic layer, a dowel pin is inserted into the
corresponding alignment holes of the pneumatic layer and fluidic layers. Alignment features to
ensure appropriate placement within the instrument include guides within the instrument which
register to the pneumatic layer (and not the fluidic layer), where the pneumatic port features are

                                                -34
located. Although parts shrinkage can be estimated, it is prudent to measure shrinkage following
the actual assembly process. For example, the pneumatic plate and fluidic plate of Example 5
shrunk by (-0.063 %, 0.116% in the X and Y directions, respectively) and (0.1510% and 0.4010%)
respectively, and the pneumatic plate was increased in size by (0.214%, 0.285%)% to
compensate for this differential shrinkage.
[0143] Both layer-to-layer alignment and biochip to instrument alignment are managed by
minimizing the number of parts to be aligned. For example, the CNC-machined or injection
molded pneumatic and fluidic plates of the biochips of the invention generally have features
present on both sides. This halves the number of parts required for assembly.
[0144] In tandem with alignment features, the features of a given layer that must communicate
with those of another layer are designed with tolerances. In particular, valve features (as
described in Example 2 require pneumatic features to align with fluidic chambers and valve
seats. In addition, through holes in the pneumatic layer connect the output of chambers within
the macrofluidic processing subassembly to corresponding input holes within the fluidic layer. In
general when two through holes need to be aligned, one of the through holes is made 0.5 mm in
diameter larger to ensure that alignment of the two through holes is achieved.
[0145] The biochips of the invention represent closed systems in that the samples are inserted
and sealed into the biochip and no liquids escape from the biochip (i.e., the process reagents that
are contained within the biochip at the initiation of sample processing are contained within the
biochip at the conclusion of sample processing (and are removed from the instrument when the
biochip is removed). Air from the pneumatic drivelines enters the biochip and air exits the
biochip through vent membranes. The closed system biochips of the invention do not expose the
operator to sample or chemicals, and important safety feature, and simplify the instrument in that
neither unused or spent reagents need be stored within the instrument.
[0146] Injection molding of microfluidic features presents many challenges because of the large
number of fine features which must be present in a complex fully integrated biochip. These
microfluidic features are sometimes present on a given part along with macrofluidic features,
further increasing the challenges of injection molding. We present herein specific solutions to
design considerations for specific types of biochips, but, one skilled in the art will be able to
apply these specific solutions to a fabricate a number of types of biochips for specific
functionalities. Among the design considerations in these examples are: geometrical aspects
such as shrinkage and shape stability in precision injection molding, flatness of biochips,
warping of biochips, minimum feature sizes, feature density, and appropriate aspect ratios. The

                                                -35
design features of the injection molded parts of the biochips of the invention will be described in
the context of the injection molding process. Injection molding is a process for fabricating plastic
parts in which a mold is clamped under pressure to accommodate the molten plastic injection and
cooling process. Plastic granules (pelletized resins) are fed into the injection molding machine,
followed by the appropriate colorants. The resins fall into an injection barrel, where they are
heated to a melting point and injected into the mold through either a reciprocating screw or
ramming device. The molten plastics are contained within the mold, and hydraulic or mechanical
pressure is applied to make sure all of the cavities within the mold are filled. The plastics are
allowed to cool within the mold, the mold is opened, and the plastic part is ejected with ejecting
pins. The entire process is cyclical, with cycle times ranging from between ten and 100 seconds,
depending on the required cooling time.
[0147] The mold consists of two primary components, the injection mold and the ejector mold.
Plastic resin enters the mold through a sprue in the injection mold; the sprue bushing is sealed
tightly against the nozzle of the injection barrel to allow molten plastic to flow from the barrel
into the mold cavity. The sprue bushing directs the molten plastic to the cavity images through
channels (or runners) that are machined into the faces of the plates. The molten plastic flows
enters one or more gates and into the cavity geometry to form the desired part. The mold is
usually designed so that the completed part reliably remains on the ejector side of the mold when
it opens. The part then falls freely when ejected. Molds can be manufactured with a combination
of machining methods including CNC milling and Electrical Discharge Machining.
[0148] The overall approach to the design of the inventive biochips for injection molding
include:
*   Reduction in the number of layers. The number of injection molded layers was reduced to
    one fluidic layer and one pneumatic layer by fabricating features on both sides of the layers.
    This was accomplished in part by routing the fluidic and pneumatic lines in a manner such
    that channels that cross over each other were routed onto separate sides of the layers. On
     some occasions, up-down transitions were required. These were minimized as vertical
    transitions lead to large pressure drops and reduction in the channel conductance. Features to
    allow ultrasonic welding of vent and filter membranes have been designed.                   The
    incorporation of welded features allowed an injection molded layer to be eliminated.
*   Increase in feature density. Increasing the packing density of channels and features reduces
    the number and size of the injection molded layers, reducing shrinkage and improving
    alignability. In the pneumatic manifold region Figure 44, 61 of the pneumatic layer of the

                                               -36
  biochips of Example 5, for example, the pitch of channels is 1.0 mm, and 10 channels are
  located within a 1 cm      2 region. This density was accomplished by developing a thermal
  bonding procedure that sealed the channels despite the narrow (0.5 mm) walls between
  channels. Thermal bonding of features with fine pitch and narrow walls is accomplished by
  using bonding fixtures with uniform surfaces and low surface roughness to ensure flatness.
  Furthermore, two bonding platens were used and set to have be parallel with tolerance of
  0.0005" to ensure consistent bonding of fine features across a given injection molded
  assembly or subassembly. Finally, temperature uniformity across the platens to within 0.25
  'C also ensures consistent bonding across the assembly or subassembly.
" Minimization of draft angles. Vertical sides of all features have been angled slightly with
  draft to ease release of the part from the mold. Draft angles in injection molding typically
  range from range from 2 - 70.         The injection molded plates of the invention used even
  smaller draft angles of 0.5%; the smaller the draft angle, the more densely packed the
  injection molded features. To accommodate for these small draft angles, ejector pins were
  placed much closer to the microfluidic features than typical in a molding process.
* Through holes. The number of knit/weld lines was reduced by appropriate placement of gates
  in the injection mold. In addition, large open features on the molded parts were minimized as
  it is difficult to hold feature dimensions and resin flow around large features.
* Wall thickness. A 1.0 mm wall thickness at feature floors and 0.5 mm wall thickness between
  features was maintained throughout the design.
* Flatness and Warpage. Appropriate layer thicknesses and transitions between features to
  minimize thickness have been adopted. The flatness of the resulting plate is characterized and
  adjustments to the injection molding process to minimize part internal stresses is performed.
  Areas of the molded plate that are warped are adjusted by modifying placement of ejector
  pins. In addition, fine machining of the uneven areas improves flatness.
* Feature aspect ratio. High aspect ratio features have been minimized and aspect ratios have
  been kept below 2. Higher aspect ratio features tend to prevent the molded parts from
  ejecting effectively from the mold tool.
* Ejectionfeatures. Ejector pin locations have been minimized and placed only on the ejector
  half of the mold. The ejector pins generate local deformation in the surface of the part which
  in turn can lead to regions that bond poorly or not at all. The travel of each ejector pin within
  the mold was adjusted to minimize the travel required for repeatable part ejection.
* Injection molding shrinkage. The shrinkage on injection molding for the resin was
  thoroughly characterized to accommodate shrinkage. Furthermore, shrinkage was further fine

                                                  -37
    tuned by adjusting the molding temperature and hold times. Shrinkage of the pneumatic and
    fluidic parts are adjusted such that all features within the injection molded plates are aligned
    within defined tolerances.
0   Block molding. The approaches described above are applicable to the molding of both flat
    plates (e.g. the fluidic plate, pneumatic plate, and macrofluidic processing cover plate). To
    mold higher volume blocks such as the macrofluidic processing block, these approaches are
    modified in that the aspect ratios are typically greater than 2. For block molding, draft angles
    of less than 1 'C are incorporated into the design and allow effective pin removal from the
    molded part while maximizing volume of the large chambers.
[0149] The fully integrated biochips of this invention realize the potential of microfluidics, by
providing biochips that can carry out complex series of process steps from the insertion of a
sample to the generation of a result, performed in a single instrument without operator
intervention. Moreover, these inventive biochips may be disposable and manufactured cost
effectively.
                                            EXAMPLES
Example 1. Reagent Storage and Release
[0150] Biochips of the invention require reagents to perform various processes, and these
reagents must be compatible with the biochip materials and operating and environmental
conditions to which they are exposed.
[0151] The reagents of the invention can be introduced into the biochip in several ways. First,
reagents can be added to the biochip manually, generally shortly before use. The advantage of
manual addition is that the biochip need not hold the reagents for extended periods, minimizing
the need for long-term stability on the biochip. The disadvantages of manual loading are that the
operator must have technical training and expertise, the reagents can be placed incorrectly
preventing proper processing, and reagent placement can be a source of contamination. A second
method of placement is by storing the reagents in containers within or near the instrument;
tubing or other conduits would then transfer the reagents to the biochip at the desired process
time. An advantage of this approach is that placing reagent containers once may allow multiple
analytic runs of the system. Disadvantages are the need for substantial transfer conduits within
the instrument, compromised flow through the conduits as, for example, as residual reagents dry
on the conduit, the need to open the instrument, allowing for the potential of damage or
contamination, a relative increase in the size of the instrument to allow reagent storage for
multiple analytic runs, and the need for an operator with technical training and expertise.

                                                 -38
[0152] A preferred approach is to store the reagents within the biochip, with the pre-loaded
reagents being an integral part of the biochip and essentially inaccessible to the operator. The
advantage of this approach is that the operator need never come in contact with the reagents or
require technical training or expertise, and, if the biochip is a closed system, the potential for
contamination is minimized. Furthermore, the instrument accepts the biochip but does not have
to be opened to place separate reagent tubes or cartridges. When combined with a drive system
that ensures that the on-chip reagents do not come in contact with the instrument, the biochip is a
closed system, further enhancing ease of use while minimizing the possibility of contamination.
[0153] In order to store reagents on-chip, they must be compatible with all biochip materials
with which they come in contact and must be accessible to the process when required. We term
one approach to these requirements "Reagent Storage and Release (RSR)," indicating that the
reagents are stored and sequestered within the biochip and released on demand as required
during processing.
[0154] Approaches to RSR include blister packages, tube-in-tube structures (in which reagent
containing tubes are inserted into biochip reagent reservoirs), and single tube structures (in
which reagents are filled directly into the biochip reagent reservoirs). Actuation methods include
pressure-based methods (which may optionally involve the use of scored foils), pin-based
methods (in which mechanically or pneumatically actuated pins puncture foil seals), and
mechanical methods (in which an instrument component exerts pressure on the stored reagent).
[0155] Blister packages. In this approach, aluminum foil sealed blisters or stick packages are
used to store reagents. Mechanical force is applied to the packages to release the contents into
the reagent reservoir.
[0156] Tube-in-tube structures. In this approach, reagent tubes are fabricated in a thermoplastic,
and a foil seal is applied to the bottom of the tube prior to reagent filling and a second foil seal
applied to the top of the tube following filling. The sealed reagent tube is then inserted into the
appropriate reagent chamber of the biochip. A wide selection of laminated aluminum sealing
foils is available for heat sealing. These foils feature a polymeric heat sealing surface laminated
to a thin aluminum film. Coatings used on aluminum foil for protection are selected for
resistance to the reagents themselves, heat, and scuffing. The protective coating may also serve
as a heat-seal surface.
[0157] Single tube structures. In this approach, chambers within the biochip itself are the storage
vehicles. In this approach, the advantage is that the biochip is relatively smaller (as the tube-in-

                                                  -39
tube requires an additional wall) and is easier to fabricate. Figure 1 illustrates the single tube
RSR approach. Foil seals (101) are bonded (thermally, by ultrasonic welding, or by adhesives) to
the top and bottom of each reagent storage chamber (102). The bottom foil is bonded first, liquid
reagents are filled (indicated by shading of 102), and the top foil is then bonded, sealing the
reagent storage chamber. A top cover (103) contains pneumatic drive lines that provide pressure
required to burst the foils. Lyophilized reagents (104) can also be stored between foils.
[0158] The pressure required to burst the top and bottom foils causes reagents to flow rapidly out
of the reagent chamber. In order to reduce reagent flow, flow-control orifices are fabricated at
the bottoms of the chambers. The diameter of the orifices are sized to allow the desired flow at
the applied foil bursting pressures. Valves and vent membranes can also be utilized to control
fluidic flow and queue liquids as described in Example 2. In addition, when the RSR chambers
are subjected to pneumatic drive pressure, the foil must have enough space to expand prior to
bursting. To accommodate this space requirement (approximately 1 mm for a foil of 25 micron
thickness and diameter of 8 mm), an RSR spacer plate was designed to provide an expansion
space for bursting. The RSR spacer plate also provides the interface to couple the larger diameter
(8 mm in this instance) outlets of the reagent chamber and the smaller diameter (0.5 to 1 mm)
inlet holes of the biochip, and transitions the reagent flow between the two interfaces with tapers.
The inlet holes may be through holes in the pneumatic subassembly leading to features in the
fluidic subassembly, or may couple directly to the fluidic subassembly or the separation and
detection subassembly. Figure 2 is a photograph of the spacer plate 105 used for a 5-sample
biochip showing RSR transitions 106 to couple liquid reagents chambers which require RSR
bursting. Conventional transition 107 couples process chambers utilized for mixing and holding
(but not reagent storage as they do not require expansions space) to the inlet holes of the biochip.
Figure 3 is a cross-sectional view of an RSR transition 106 which is composed of a RSR
chamber interface 108, a conical taper section 109, and a biochip interface 110. Also shown is a
conventional transition 107 which is a through hole transition between the process chambers and
another biochip subassembly. The spacer plate is attached to the reagent chambers and to the by
pressure sensitive adhesive and mechanical fasteners. Other forms of attachment include the use
of gaskets with and without adhesives, screws, heat staking, and rivets.
[0159] Pneumatic bursting of foils is the preferred method, as it requires only pneumatics for
actuation. The foil seals are burst by pneumatic pressure that is delivered to the tops of the tubes
via pneumatic drive lines within the biochip. In this configuration, the pressure applied to the
reagent chamber is imposed on the top foil, causing it to rupture. On rupture, the pressure is
applied directly to the reagents within the tube. This in turn causes the bottom foil to rupture and

                                                -40
release the solution for processing. Several factors must be considered in the selection of foils for
pneumatic bursting. To be compatible for pneumatic bursting, the bursting pressure must be
appropriate for the structure of the biochip and tolerated by the biochip. For the biochips of the
present invention, assembled by thermal bonding, solvent bonding, and adhesive bonding, the
desired bursting pressure is approximately 20 - 500 psig. Thin foil films of 10 - 500 microns are
appropriate for this purpose, preferably 10 - 30 microns.
[0160] Figure 4 shows pneumatic bursting pressures required for 12 (solid line) and 18 (dashed
line) micron aluminum foils bonded to chamber diameters of 2 - 8 mm. Pressure required for
bursting increases with increasing foil thickness and decreases with increasing chamber/foil
diameter. Each point shows the average pressure required for bursting (For 2 mm diameter, n=2,
for 3 mm diameter, n=6, for 4 mm diameter, n=10, for 5 mm diameter, n=9, for 6 mm diameter,
n=10, for 7 mm diameter, n=4, and for 8 mm diameter, n=4). Bursting pressure can also be
affected by the type of foil material.
[0161] Optionally, scoring of the thin foils allows a reduction in bursting pressure; scores of
various sizes and shapes on the foil can be utilized as well. For example, laser or mechanical die
scoring of lines, crosses, and circles to varying depths can be used to further modulate burst
pressure. Figure 5 shows an RSR unit with six chambers (each with 8 mm diameter and 50 mm
height). A 25 micron aluminum foil was subjected to laser scoring (crossed 4.5 mm centrally
placed lines of depth of approximately 10 microns) and thermally bonded to the unit using a heat
staker. The bottom foil was placed initially, the liquid reagents with food coloring were filled
into each chamber, and the top foil was bonded (Figure 6).
[0162] Two-sided bursting of reagent chambers was performed by filling and sealing 2 ml of
reagents into the chambers of Figure 6. The foils used for sealing the chambers were scored
(crossed 4.5 mm centrally placed lines of depth of approximately 10 microns) to achieve a
nominal burst pressure of 32 psig. Each chamber was attached to an RSR spacer plate which was
in turn attached to a microfluidic channel. The output of the microfluidic channel was sealed
with a vent membrane to allow air from the bursting to vent but not to block the fluid that is
released from the chambers. A cover was fastened to the top of the chamber. The cover couples
each of the 6 chambers to a pneumatic drive line. The pneumatic system was configured to apply
pressure to only one chamber at a time. The pneumatic drive pressure was increased gradually
until liquid was observed to flow into the microfluidic channel, and this pressure was recorded.
All of the 24 foils used in the testing (4 RSR units) burst with a pressure of 32 psig  3 psig.
Figure 7 shows foils after bursting. Foil materials, scoring depth and configuration, and burst

                                                 -41
pressures are chosen in tandem to avoid having pieces of the foil become separated during
bursting, potentially blocking exit channels for the reagents. The scored foil presented here does
not generate separated pieces of foil.
[0163] In a second experiment, the reagent chambers were filled and sealed with scored foils as
above. The chambers were attached to an RSR spacer plate which was attached to a microfluidic
channel. The output of each of the microfluidic channel was sealed with a vent membrane. A
cover was fastened to the top of the chamber and 45 psig of pressure was applied to all the
reagent chambers simultaneously for 1 second. All of the foils ruptured and reagent was
observed to flow into the microfluidic channels and stop at the vent membrane. The liquid within
the channel was composed of a single plug without bubbles.
[0164] Together these experiments demonstrate the RSR including reagent sealing within the
chambers, pneumatic bursting of sealing foils, control of bursting pressure with chamber
diameter and scoring, reagent transition into a microfluidic channel, and queuing of the reagent
with a vent membrane.
[0165] A related approach to RSR utilizes mechanical rather than pneumatic pressure to burst
the foils. In this method, sharp pins are fabricated in plastic at the top and bottom of each foil
sealed reagent tube (metal pins can be inserted to serve the same purpose). Both foils are pierced
by pins, releasing the reagents at the required process time.
Example 2. Flow Control In Biochips
[0166] The biochips of the invention comprise thermoplastic layers that contain fine features,
and control of fluid flow is required to execute the set of processing steps required to generate
the analytic results. Fluidic functions that require the use of flow control elements include:
-   Directing fluid flows from one feature to another via channels in the biochip. The scripted
    use of drive lines, valves, and vent membranes directs liquid and air flow through specific
    channels and features in the biochip. For example, the purification filter (Figure 39, 12) is
    connected by fluidic channels to reagent and process chambers. The sequence of fluid flows
    and valves that control flow into and out of the purification filter is described by the DNA
    binding step, Wash, Dry, Elution steps of Example 5. In these steps, several vent membranes,
    valves (Figure 39, 46, 47, 43, 42, and 44) and pneumatic drive lines are used to direct fluid
    flows through this chamber.
-   Sealing of chambers. Certain reactions such as thermal cycling and cycle sequencing require
    elevated temperatures. A high integrity seal is important in such settings because the pressure

                                             -42
of the fluid within the chamber increases as the reaction is heated. A poor seal will result in
fluid leaks out of the chamber and will allow gases within the reaction to outgas and generate
bubbles. Sealing the chambers minimizes these problems and improves reaction efficiency.
For example, the thermal cycling chambers of Examples 5 and 6 are sealed during the
thermal cycling process by valves V13 and V14 (Figure 40, 52 and 53).
Reciprocal mixing. Reciprocal mixing is an approach to mixing based on forcing two liquids
against an air ballast and releasing pressure to allow reverse flow. Repeated application and
reduction of applied pressure accomplishes mixing by moving solutions to be mixed "back
and forth."    This approach is illustrated in the biochip of Example 6, which uses an air
chamber (Figure 70, 610) as a spring which is initially compressed by the fluid by pressure
when the fluid is pushed against it, and then to push the fluid back when pressure is released.
The air chamber is sealed during reciprocal mixing by valve V13 (Figure 69, 52) where a
linearly increasing pressure of 0 to 15 psig and then 15 to 0 psig is applied. After the mixing,
V13 is opened to allow the mixed solutions to flow through into the PCR chambers.
Queuing vent membranes - Variations in flow velocity of multiple samples being processed
in parallel in a given biochip can result from factors including differences in sample viscosity
(e.g. DNA content) and variations in channel dimension (and hence conductance). The use of
queuing functions accommodates variations in the fluid flows for multiple samples through
parallel channels within the biochip. In this approach, the maximum possible time required
for a given step is used as the step time. Samples that arrive at the vent membrane early will
halt and wait while the other samples with slower flow velocities arrive at the queuing point.
This approach provides tolerance to process multiple samples simultaneously by ensuring
that they are synchronized. Queuing of fluids is practiced in Example 5 and 6 "Transfer into
thermal cycling chamber" by using a vent membrane (Figure 40 and Figure 69, 100) and a
valve (V29) (Figure 40 and Figure 69, 99) to halt the PCR solution for multiple samples at a
common position. An alternative but more complicated approach to synchronizing multiple
samples is to control each sample separately and to incorporate detection features (e.g.
optical, thermal, chemical, mechanical) that allow the script to receive feedback when a
given sample arrives at a given point on the biochip.
Metering chambers - Solutions are metered in multiple instances through the process flow.
An example of metering in Examples 5 and example 6 is the "Eluate metering" step employs
a metering chamber (Figure 40 and 70, 8), valve V12 (Figure 40 and 70, 51) and vent
membrane VM (Figure 40 and 70, 100).

                                                -43
- Joining of solutions with air plugs in between. During sample processing, there are instances
  in which two discrete fluid plugs from different inputs and separated by air need to be
  combined. An example of this is the "joining of the PCR product and formamide" step. In
  this step, a joining chamber (Figure 41 and 71, 78), Vent membrane, and valves (Figure 41,
  Elements 100, 56, 81) are used. The joining function uses the above elements to receive each
  of the fluid plugs into the chamber, remove air between the fluids, and allow the joined fluid
  plug to advance. In this step, valves are used to halt liquid and air flow. The vent membrane
  is used to vent air between the fluid plugs.
- Filling of waste chambers. Waste chambers within the biochip are designed to accept excess
  solutions, particularly during metering steps. An example of waste handling is the "meter
  formamide" step. In this step, a waste chamber (Figure 41 and 71, 77) consists of a chamber
  that has a vent membrane to seal the entire top surface and Valve V15 (Figure 41 and 71, 54).
  The valve and waste design accommodates excess fluids that may be variable in volume and
  may contain air bubbles (and therefore samples that are discontinuous fluid plugs). The use
  of a fully vented waste chamber allows air that is present within fluid plugs to be ejected, and
  the use of valves allows the waste to be directed into the chambers and sealed.
- Passive sample splitting. The use of a passive differential conductance feature to spit the
  flows of two fluids that are separated by air into two paths may be advantageous. In this
  design, a single flow path splits in two flow paths that end with vented chambers. The flow
  conductance of a first channel is significantly reduced relative to that of a second channel by
  incorporating a passive flow restriction along its fluidic pathway. The flow restriction
  generates resistance, and liquids that flow to the split will flow in the higher conductance
  channel until the vented chamber is filled or the vent membrane is completely wetted. When
  either occurs, the restriction of this flow channel is high and additional liquid flows into the
  second channel (despite the flow restriction element). This design is used to passively control
  flow of fluid between two paths based on conductance. It is particularly useful when two
  liquids in a channel are separated by an air plug; the first liquid flows toward the first path
  and the second liquid is diverted to a second path.
  Venting of macrofluidic chambers. The "chaotic bubbling" steps of Example 5 and 6 result in
  significant agitation of a large volume of solution. The lysis solution on chaotic bubbling
  must be contained within the chamber to prevent the reagent from leaving the biochip and
  ending up in the instrument, while large volumes of air must be exhausted to allow adequate
  air flows to facilitate bubbling. This is accomplished by using a vent membrane in the cover
  that acts as a barrier to the fluid flow but allows air from chaotic bubbling to be exhausted. A

                                                -44
     similar design is utilized to vent any chamber subjected to chaotic bubbling or substantial air
    flow for any reason.
-   Isolation of drive lines - Vent membranes are also incorporated into the cover and other
    portions of the biochip to isolate the drive lines of the instrument from fluids within the
     biochip.
Valving Structures
[0167] The above functions rely on two flow control structures: valves and vent membranes. The
biochip uses valves for flow control to halt or allow flow of fluids within channels. Valves can
be passive or active, and passive valves include in-line polymerized gel, passive plug, and
hydrophobic valves. Active valve structures include mechanical (thermopneumatic and shape
memory alloy), non-mechanical (hydrogel, sol-gel, paraffin, and ice), and external (modular
built-in, pneumatic, and non-pneumatic) valves. The pneumatic and mechanical valve structures
can also make use of either elastomeric or non-elastomeric membranes. In either case, the
membranes can be treated to provide optimal sealing properties.
[0168] Many types of valve structures can be utilized in the biochips of the invention, and
several types may be incorporated in an individual biochip. The selection of a valve structure is
based primarily on ease of fabrication and assembly in concert with the approach to
instrumentation. For example, mechanical valves controlled by rods that actuate biochip features
would be appropriate in an instrument with sophisticated mechanical alignment and control
mechanisms. Similarly, valves based on localized melting of wax require an instrument with
controlled special heating mechanisms. In Examples 5 and 6, the instrument is capable of
sophisticated pneumatic control, and the incorporate valves types (described below) are based on
pneumatic actuation. Other pneumatic and non-pneumatic (e.g. mechanical, liquid, wax,
electrical) actuation mechanisms and corresponding valves can be utilized in the inventive
biochips.
[0169] The top view of a pneumatically actuated elastomeric valve structure is shown in Figure
8. The top view of shows pressure sensitive adhesive (PSA) tape and an elastomeric membrane
for the normally open valve. A cross-sectional view of the pneumatically actuated valve for
control of fluids and air is shown in Figure 9. Components of the valve structure include a valve
membrane 202, valve seats 203, pneumatic chamber 204, fluidic chamber 205, double sided PSA
tape 206, fluidic through holes 208, fluidic channel 209, and pneumatic channel 210. This valve
is fabricated by assembling 3 components:

                                                -45
[0170] Fluidic subassembly. This subassembly contains a channel for fluid 209 (liquid or air)
flow. The channel is interrupted by a set of through holes 208 that pass through to the surface. At
the surface these through holes form the valve seats 203 for the valve assembly. It is fabricated
by CNC machining the channels and through holes in a thermoplastic sheet (Figure 33) and
covering both sides with thin plastic films. In this case the thin film plastic is a thermoplastic
film that is bonded. The films have themselves been patterned by CNC machining, and have
features including through holes that are aligned to the corresponding features on the CNC
machined layer to provide access to the fluidic sandwich layer. Similarly, the same features
within the fluidic and pneumatic layers can also be fabricated by injection molding.
[0171] Pneumatic subassembly. This subassembly couples the pneumatic drive of the instrument
to the fluidic subassembly to pneumatically drive fluids within the fluidic subassembly and to
pneumatically activate valves within the biochip. The pneumatic channels 210 couple the
pneumatic drive to the valve chamber. This subassembly is fabricated by CNC machining a
channel and chambers onto each of the two sides of a thermoplastic sheet (Figure 44). The
features in the thin plastic films include through holes are aligned to the corresponding features
on the CNC machined layer to provide access to the pneumatic sandwich layer.            Bonding is
accomplished thermally but can also be performed ultrasonically, with solvents, and using
adhesives. Similarly, the same features within the fluidic and pneumatic layers can also be
fabricated by injection molding.
[0172] Valve subassembly - This subassembly is positioned between the pneumatic subassembly
and the fluidic subassembly. In this construct, the valve assembly consists of an elastomeric
membrane 202 that is 0.005" thick. When pneumatically activated, this layer will deflect to
control flow of fluids (including air) within the fluidic layer. A top pressure sensitive adhesive
layer 206 is used to attach the membrane to the top pneumatic layer. A bottom pressure sensitive
adhesive layer is used to attach the membrane layer 206 to the fluidic layer. The pressure
sensitive layers are patterned by laser cutting. The pressure sensitive adhesive layer can also be
patterned by methods including die cutting or punching. The elastomeric membrane is from
0.005" - 0.015" thick and the material can be rubbers such as silicone.
[0173] The valve was constructed by assembling the three subassemblies together. The fluidic
assembly and pneumatic assembly are fastened together by thermal bonding. Similarly, the
pneumatic and fluidic plates can be fastened together by the use of a number of mechanical
fasteners including screws, rivets, thermal heat staking and ultrasonic welding.

                                                -46
[0174] These valves are normally open. Fluids will flow through the channel within the fluidic
layer, up the through hole, into the valve body, out the 2nd through hole and back into the
channel within the fluidic layer. When a pressure is applied to the pneumatic channel, the
pressure deflects the valve membrane and pushes this membrane against the valve seats and floor
of the valve fluidic chamber. This seals off the path between the through holes and stops flow
through the valve. The valve structure incorporates membrane and PSA elements that have high
degrees of compliance such that, on assembly, their compression accommodates for any local
variations in flatness of two parts being bonded. This accommodation enhances the ability to
form effective seals around the valves.
[0175] An experiment was conducted to assess the valve sealing pressure. The pneumatic
channels of the valve were connected to a pneumatic drive, VD. A volume of dyed liquid (water)
was loaded into a portion of the fluidic channel that coupled to the valve. The input to the fluidic
channel was connected to another pneumatic drive FD. The pressure of VD was set and held
constant through the experiment. The pressure of FD was gradually increased until the fluid flow
within the channel was observed. The pressure at which the fluid began to flow is the burst
pressure of the valve for a given valve sealing pressure. The burst pressure for the valve for
valve sealing pressures of 5, 15, and 22 psig were 3, 13.5 and 20 psig respectively. This data
shows that a pneumatic sealing pressure of larger than 2 psig that of the fluidic drive pressure is
acceptable for sealing. In the biochips of Examples 5 and 6, the valve sealing pressure is set to a
common pressure (22 psig) for most of the process steps. This is effective in controlling multiple
valves simultaneously and for controlling flow channels of up to 18 psig of pressure. Although a
fixed valve drive pressure is adequate for most functions, a variable system allows the valve
pressure to be increased (for cases in which the fluidic drive pressure requirements are high) and
to be reduced (prior to opening the valves) to minimize any agitation of the fluids when the valve
membrane is activated.
[0176] When the valve is used during vacuum process steps and a fluid is draw fluid through the
valve, a vacuum also needs to be applied to both the fluidic and pneumatic line to maintain the
valve in an open position. To close this valve, pressure is applied as above.
[0177] Although all of the valves in the biochips of Examples 4, 5, and 6 are in the normally
open configuration, those valves and the several types of valves in this example can be designed
in a normally closed configuration. For example, Figure 10 is a top view of the PSA tape and
elastomeric membrane valve for normally closed operation. Figure 11 is the cross-sectional view
of the PSA tape and elastomeric membrane valve for a normally closed configuration. The

                                                  -47
construction of this valve is different than that of Figures 8 and 9 in that the valve seats are raised
such that they are in intimate contact with the valve membrane layer in the unactivated state. The
valve membrane with the valve seats on fabrication are placed under tension during fabrication
and assembly. To open the valve, a vacuum is applied to pull the valve membrane away from the
valve seats. Note that all valves in this Example (except for the structure of Figures 10 and 11)
are normally open. For some applications, it may be advantageous to incorporate one time use
valves, namely valves that are not designed to be repeatedly opened and closed during the assay
process, but rather which, for example, begin the process in an open state and close once during
the assay process..
[0178] The top view of a pneumatically actuated valve with a rigid valve membrane with
normally open configuration is shown in Figure 12. A cross-sectional view of the pneumatically
actuated valve with a rigid valve membrane for control of fluids and air is shown in Figure 13.
Components of the valve structure include a valve membrane 202, valve seats 203, pneumatic
chamber 204, fluidic chamber 205, fluidic through holes 208, fluidic channel 209, and pneumatic
channel 210. This valve is fabricated by assembling 3 components:
[0179] Fluidic subassembly. This subassembly contains a channel for fluid (liquid or air) flow.
The channel is interrupted by a set of through holes 208 that pass through to the surface. These
through holes form the valve seats 203 for the valve assembly. Alternatively, the channel can be
routed along the top side of the fluidic plate and be interrupted as it passes though the valve. The
channel ends form the valve seats for this assembly. This assembly is fabricated by injection
molding the channels and through holes in a thermoplastic. In this case, the valve membrane 202
is a thin film thermoplastic film that is bonded. The fluidic chamber 205 of this structure is
fashioned to the shape of the rigid membrane under full deflection to effect sealing.
[0180] Pneumatic subassembly. This subassembly couples the pneumatic drive of the instrument
to the fluidic subassembly to pneumatically drive fluids within the fluidic subassembly and to
pneumatically activate valves within the biochip. The pneumatic channel couple the pneumatic
drive to the valve chamber. This subassembly is fabricated by injection molding channel and
chamber features in thermoplastic (Figure 72 and 73). The features in the thin plastic films
include through holes are aligned to the corresponding features on the injection molded layer to
provide access to the pneumatic subassembly. Bonding is accomplished thermally but can also
be performed ultrasonically, with solvents, and using adhesives.
[0181] Valve subassembly. This subassembly located between the pneumatic subassembly and
the fluidic subassembly. In this construct, the valve assembly consists of a thin thermoplastic

                                                -48
film. The film can be between 10 to 250 microns thick. In Example 6, films of thermoplastic of
40 microns, 50 microns and 100 microns were used. When pneumatically activated, this layer
deflects to control flow of fluids (including air) within the fluidic layer. The valve was
constructed by assembling the three subassemblies together. The fluidic assembly and pneumatic
assembly were bonded together thermally or by solvents. Alternatively, a double-sided adhesive
can also be used to adhere the top and bottom assemblies together. The thin thermoplastic, rigid
valve membrane is integral to the fluidic layer, a significant advantage during biochip assembly.
[0182] These valves are normally open. Fluids flow through the channel within the fluidic layer,
up the through hole, into the valve body, out the 2nd through hole and back into the channel
within the fluidic layer. When pressure is applied to the pneumatic channel, the pressure deflects
the rigid valve membrane and pushes this membrane against the valve seats and floor of the
valve fluidic chamber to seal off the path between the through holes and stops flow through the
valve.
[0183] An experiment was conducted to assess the valve sealing pressure by fabricating a valve
using the methods above with a 100 micron membrane. The pneumatic channels of the valve
were connected to a pneumatic drive VD. A volume of dyed liquid (water) was loaded into a
portion of the fluidic channel coupled to the valve. The input to the fluidic channel was
connected to another pneumatic drive FD. The pressure of FD was set and held constant through
the experiment. The pressure of VD was gradually decreased from a high level 80 psig until the
fluid within the channel is observed to flow. The valve sealing pressure required to hold an FD
of 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 psig was 14.6, 28, 54, 65.5, and 81.5 psig respectively. The rigid membrane
used in this valve construction requires the application of a higher pressure to seal the fluid
flows. Reducing the valve membrane thickness from 100 microns to 50 microns and 40 microns
substantially reduced the requirements for pressure to seal against fluid flows. For vacuum
operation in which fluids are drawn through the channels, a vacuum is applied to the valve to
maintain it in an open position.
[0184] Figure 14 shows a top view of a clamped, normally open elastomeric membrane valve.
The cross-sectional view of this pneumatically actuated valve for control of fluids and air is
shown in Figure 15. Components of the valve structure include a valve membrane 202, valve
seats 203, pneumatic chamber 204, fluidic chamber 205, fluidic through holes 208, fluidic
channel 209, pneumatic channel 210, and compression rings 212. This valve is fabricated by
assembling 3 subassemblies. An advantage of this structure is that it is quite simple and does not
require PSA tape.

                                                 -49
[0185] Fluidic subassembly - This subassembly contains a channel for fluid 209 (liquid or air)
flow. The channel is interrupted by a set of through holes 208 that pass through to the surface. At
the surface these through holes form the valve seats 203 for the valve assembly. It is fabricated
by CNC machining the channels and through holes in a thermoplastic sheet (Figure 33) and
covering both sides with thin plastic films (Figure 36 and Figure 37). In this case the thin film
plastic is a thermoplastic film is bonded. The films have themselves been patterned by CNC
machining, and have features including through holes that are aligned to the corresponding
features on the CNC machined layer to provide access to the fluidic sandwich layer. Similarly,
the same features within the fluidic and pneumatic layers can also be fabricated by injection
molding. A set of valve membrane compression rings are fonned around the fluidic chamber
212.
[0186] Pneumatic subassembly -          This subassembly couples the pneumatic drive of the
instrument to the fluidic subassembly to pneumatically drive fluids within the fluidic
subassembly and to pneumatically activate valves within the biochip. The pneumatic channels
210 couple the pneumatic drive to the valve chamber. This subassembly is fabricated by CNC
machining a channel and chambers onto each of the two sides of a thermoplastic sheet (Figure
12). The features in the thin plastic films include through holes are aligned to the corresponding
features on the CNC machined layer to provide access to the pneumatic sandwich layer.
Bonding is accomplished thermally but can also be performed ultrasonically, with solvents, and
using adhesives. Similarly, the same features within the fluidic and pneumatic layers can also be
fabricated by injection molding. A set of valve membrane compression rings are formed around
the pneumatic chamber 211. The compression rings of the fluidic and pneumatic chambers are
coincident with each other and will align with each other.
[0187] Valve subassembly - This subassembly located between the pneumatic subassembly and
the fluidic subassembly. In this construct, the valve assembly consists of a silicone membrane
202 that is 0.005" thick. When pneumatically activated, this layer will deflect to control flow of
fluids (including air) within the fluidic layer.
[0188] The valve is constructed by assembling the three subassemblies together. The fluidic
assembly and pneumatic assembly are fastened together by thermal bonding. Similarly, the
pneumatic and fluidic plates can be fastened together by the use of a number of mechanical
fasteners including screws, rivets, thermal heat staking, and ultrasonic welding. The pneumatic
and fluidic layers are bonded such that the membrane layer between the compression rings (212)
is compressed. The degree of compression will range from 5 % to 60 % and is a function of the

                                                -50
durometer and thickness of the valve membrane. The degree of compression is sufficient when
the pneumatic drive is sealed within the pneumatic chamber and the fluids do not leak from the
fluidic chambers.
Venting Structures
[0189] The microfluidic component of the apparatus uses venting membranes to vent air and to
serve as a barrier to fluid flows. The venting membranes that were used in the biochips of
Example 5 and 6 were selected based on the surface tension of the liquid being transported and
the surface free energy. When a significant differential exists between the two, the contact angle
between the solid surface and the liquid is high and liquid droplets will be repelled from the
membrane surface and not foul the membrane. Another consideration is the air-flow rates
through the membrane. It must be sufficiently high to allow unrestricted venting of air.
Typically, for a given material, the differential between surface free energy and surface tension
increases with decreasing pore size however, the air flow rate is inversely proportional to the
port size. For example, the surface tension of water is 73 dynes/cm, isopropyl Alcohol 22
dynes/cm, and for oil 30 dynes/cm.
[0190] Venting membranes used in the biochip include those made of: Polytetrafluoroethylene
(PTFE), a widely used material in medical venting and gas filtration. It is an inert material that
offers excellent flow properties and high chemical resistance. Dimensional instability of cut
shapes of this membrane type can cause difficulties in robotic handling in over-molding
operations. PTFE is incompatible with gamma or E-beam sterilization because chain scission
causes loss of integrity when the material is exposed to ionizing radiation; Polyvinylidene
fluoride (PVDF) is a durable material that offers good flow properties and broad chemical
resistance. It is available in both natural and super-hydrophobic forms; Ultra-high molecular
weight polyethylene (UPE) is a more recent entry into the medical venting and gas filtration
market. It is a naturally hydrophobic material that offers excellent flow properties and broad
chemical resistance; Modified acrylic membrane treated to be hydrophobic is an economical
choice for venting applications. It is oleophobic, hydrophobic, and chemically compatible.
[0191] Figure 16 shows a cross sectional view of a vent membrane configuration used in the
biochips of Example 5. The vent membrane (Figure 16, 213) is incorporated into the structure
placing the membrane between the pneumatic and fluidic layers and by thermal bonding. Figure
17 shows a cross sectional view of a vent membrane configuration (Figure 17, 213) that was
used in the biochips of Example 6. In this vent membrane configuration, the vent membrane is
welded to the fluidic layer with a weld ridge.

                                                 -51
Example 3. Biochip Interface
[0192] The biochips of the invention interface with an instrument. The instrument provides all
the subsystems required for the completion of sample analyses including high and low voltage
power subsystems, thermal cycling subsystems, pneumatic subsystems, magnetic subsystems,
mechanical     subsystems,    optical  subsystems,   ruggedization  subsystems,    process  control
subsystems, and computer subsystems as shown in Figure 58.             The instrument to biochip
interface will involve one or more of these subsystems, depending on the microfluidic drive and
the series of processes to be performed within the biochip. In the case of the examples herein,
the interface of the biochips and the instrument are pneumatic, electrical, optical, and mechanical
as follows:
Pneumatic Subsystem Interface.
[0193] The pneumatic subsystem is coupled to the biochip through a pneumatic manifold. Figure
18 shows the pneumatic manifold area for the biochip of Example 5 and consists of a series of
pneumatic ports that are located on the top side of the pneumatic plate. Five types of ports are
incorporated with the pneumatic interface:
Lowflow drives. Low flow ports are used to supply pneumatic for activation of valves and drive
of fluidics through the biochip.
Highflow drives. High flow ports are used to supply air required for processes such as agitation
by bubbling and drying of the purification membrane, requiring flows of up to 19 SLPM. The
port sizes are enlarged to minimize pressure drops.
Highpressure drive. This port is used to supply up to 400 psig required for sieving matrix filling.
Condensate ports. Condensate generated by mechanical pumps within the instrument can
optionally be driven into a chamber of the biochip through the pneumatic interface.
[0194] Instrument test ports. Test ports can be incorporated into the pneumatic manifold for
testing of the instrument pneumatic system and confirming alignment of the pneumatic manifold
of the instrument to that of the biochip.
[0195] The pneumatic ports are positioned in an array, with 34 low flow ports and 7 high flow
ports.. The location of this pneumatic manifold was selected based in part on the following
considerations:
[0196] Minimizing the surface area of the interface site.       The more compact the pneumatic
interface region, the less that local shrinkage and warping during injection molding will interfere
with the interface, allowing improved alignment.

                                                  -52
[0197] Collecting all pneumatic ports at a single interface site. This approach was taken to
simplify the instrument, an advantage in a system that is ruggedized and will be utilized outside
the laboratory.    Typically, the single interface will be centrally located within the biochip
footprint, but it may also be located at an end of the biochip. Alternatively, multiple interfaces
could be distributed across the biochip. In the biochips of Examples 5 and 6, the pneumatic ports
are centralized in one location to allow for a compact coupling point between the instrument and
biochip. This organization and positioning of the manifold simplifies routing of the pneumatic
lines within the biochip as compared to either having decentralized ports or having all ports
located at an extreme end of the biochip. This also increases the tolerance of the alignment
between the manifold and the pneumatic ports and simplifies routing of the pneumatic tubing
within the instrument.
[0198] Location of ports on the biochip based on feature density - There are areas on the fluidic
and pneumatic plates where the feature density is low. It is optimal to locate the pneumatic
manifold in these areas when possible. In general, optimal use of space on the biochip (i.e., the
rational packing of all microfluidic and macrofluidic features) is important to maximize the
feature density and process complexity of a biochip of given dimensions. In the biochips of
Examples 5 and 6, the pneumatic ports are located on the top side of the pneumatic layer.
Similarly, the pneumatic ports can also be located on the bottom side of the fluidic layer and be
coupled to the instrument through the chip holder. The absolute location of the ports is
determined by feature density, functional utility, and ease of design. In the biochips of Examples
5 and 6, the thermal cycling regions are located on the bottom side of the fluidic subassembly,
requiring clamping pressure from above to establish efficient thermal contact with the thermal
cycler. Accordingly, the centralized pneumatic ports were positioned on the top side of the
pneumatic subassembly such that a single clamping mechanism could function to simultaneously
interface with the biochip thermally and pneumatically.
[0199] Closed system - As noted above, the biochips of the invention are closed systems such
that all liquids are located within the biochip during and after processing. Vent membranes (as
described in Example 2) are used to block fluid from inadvertently flowing from the biochip into
the pneumatic manifold of the instrument.
[0200] As an illustration of pneumatic flow and the pneumatic manifold, the approach to driving
fluids within the macrofluidic processing subsystem for the "lysis step" of Example 5 will be
presented. To effect this step, the lysis drive line DL1 (Figure 39, 68) was activated to drive the
lysis solution from the lysis reagent chamber (Figure 39, 20) into the swab chamber (Figure 39,

                                                  -53
19). The process controller activated the solenoid relay on the instrument which applied the
desired pressure on the drive line DLI port on the pneumatic interface (Figure 39, 20). Air is
driven through the pneumatic interface at the DLI port (Figure 18, 301) of the pneumatic
manifold, along pneumatic channel of the pneumatic plate (Figure 18, 302) to the microfluidic
interface port within the pneumatic plate (Figure 19, 303). This interface port routed the
pneumatic drive pressure through the pneumatic channels within the macrofluidic processing
block (Figure 47, 26) and into the cover of the macrofluidic processing subassembly (Figure 48,
27). The cover in turn routed the pneumatic drive along a channel (Figure 48 and 53, 304) into
the lysis reagent chamber (Figure 47, 20). Taken together, the resultant step is the transfer of the
lysis reagent from the lysis reagent chamber through the fluidic subassembly, and ultimately, to
the swab chamber (Figure 20, 20).
[0201] Similarly, if the reagents within the chamber are sealed by foils as in Example 1, then the
pneumatic drive is applied in a twostep action, where the first step is to generate a pulse to burst
the foil, and the second step is similar to the non-RSR illustration above.
High voltage subsystem interface
[0202] The high voltage subsystem is coupled to the biochip through a set of electrode pins and
a wiring harness. Alternatively, a set of etched thin metal electrodes can also be fabricated. In
this setting, electrode pins are inserted into the anode and cathodes by press fitting into the
biochip. The electrode pins make contact to electrode strips located on the top of the pneumatic
subassembly and also inserted by press fitting. This electrode strip is coupled to the instrument
by a set of spring loaded electrodes on the instrument. The electrode strips are fabricated of
Beryllium Copper (BeCu), a high performance metal which can be fabricated into a wide variety
of components. Its mechanical and electrical properties make it the ideal material for EMI/RFI
shielding products.The electrode strip can also be fabricated from other metals.
Optical subsystem interface
[0203] As described in patent application Ser. Nos. 12/396,110, published as 2009/00229983
entitled "Ruggedized Apparatus for Analysis of Nucleic Acid and Proteins," and 12/080,745,
published as 2009/0020427 entitled Plastic Microfluidic Separation and Detection Platforms,"
both of which are incorporated herein by reference, the laser is coupled to the separation and
detection window of the pneumatic-valve-fluidic stack (Examples 5 and 6) through an opening
in the chip holder. A set of photodiodes is used to enable lane finding of the lanes within the
separation and detection biochip.

                                                -54
Thermal subsystem interface
[0204] The thermal cycler and biochip are positioned such that the thermal cycling chambers are
centered within the TEC elements, as described in App. Ser. No. 12/080,746, published as
2009/0023603 entitled "Methods for Rapid Multiplexed Amplification of Target Nucleic Acids,"
which is incorporated herein by reference. A clamping force of 90 lbs is required to achieve good
contact between the thermal cycling chambers and the TEC to accurately generate the
temperature cycling profiles. The clamping pressure is generated by the clamp arm and
compression of a silicone pad. The clamping arm exerts the pressure required to push down on
the silicone pad.
[0205] An experiment to assess the clamping force required for efficient thermal transfer was
performed. A pneumatically activated cylinder (Figure 21, 305) was used to exert a controlled
force onto a PCR biochip (Figure 21, 401). At each level of force, the PCR was performed
following standard protocols (See, Giese, H., et al. (2009). "Fast multiplexed polymerase chain
reaction for conventional and microfluidic short tandem repeat analysis." J Forensic Sci 54(6):
1287-96, which is incorporated herein by reference), and STR profiles were analyzed. The data
showed that at a force of below 75 lbs, inconsistent STR profiles were generated. When forces
above 75 lbs were applied, consistent and effective amplification was observed (Figure 22).
[0206] The separation and detection subsystem is coupled to the heaters on the chip holder to
maintain a temperature of 50 C. Temperature uniformity is important and the clamping of the
biochip onto the heater plates contributes to the establishment and maintenance of temperature
uniformity.
Mechanical alignment
[0207] To align all biochip to instrument interfaces, the biochip is placed onto the chip holder of
the instrument containing a set of mechanical alignment guides. These guides provide alignment
of the interface features of the biochip to the instrument to within  0.020". The guides register
the chip at three locations along the edge of the pneumatic plate, near to the corners to locate the
origin and orientation. In this configuration the guides have a cutout to locate only against the
pneumatic layer (this minimizes any effect of slight misalignments between the fluidic and
pneumatic plate layers).

                                               -55
Example 4. CNC-machined biochip that accepts and mixes DNA and PCR reagents and
performs 16-plex amplification reaction in 17 minutes for sixteen samples simultaneously.
[0208] The PCR biochip 401 of Figure 23 was injection molded in a slide format and
successfully tested for rapid multiplexed PCR. This biochip is 25 mm x 75 mm x 1.1 mm thick.
The system allows multiplexed amplification on STR fragments from a single genome
equivalent of human DNA (6 pg of DNA, essentially a single-copy limit of detection) as
described in Giese, H., et al. (2009). "Fast multiplexed polymerase chain reaction for
conventional and microfluidic short tandem repeat analysis." J Forensic Sci 54(6): 1287-96.
[0209] Based on that result, a biochip (footprint of 76.2 mm x 127 mm) was designed and
fabricated by CNC-machining. Fluidic layer I (Figure 24, 403) and fluidic layer 2 (Figure 25,
404), pneumatic layer 1 (Figure 26, 405) and pneumatic layer 2 (Figure 27, 406) are fabricated
by CNC machining from a thermoplastic sheet. The fluidic subassembly (Figure 28, 407) was
fabricated by assembling fluidic layer 1 (Figure 24, 403), fluidic layer 2 (Figure 25, 404) and an
unpatterned thin thermoplastic film and thermally bonding. The pneumatics subassembly (Figure
29, 408) was fabricated by thermal bonding pneumatic layer I (Figure 26, 405), pneumatics layer
2 (Figure 27, 406). The biochip assembly (Figure 30, 409) was fabricated by bonding the fluidics
subassembly (Figure 28, 407) to the pneumatic subassembly (Figure 30, 409) and incorporating
an elastomeric, normally open valve subassembly as described in Example 2.
[0210] To test the biochip, 160 microliters of PCR reagent master mix, sufficient for 16 samples
of amplification, was prepared and inserted into the master mix reagent reservoir (Figure 28,
410) of the CNC-machined biochip. 9.3 microliters of DNA (total template of 1 ng) was inserted
into each of the sample wells (Figure 28, 411). The biochip was connected to the
pneumatic/thermal cycling instrument (Figure 31). An automated script with the following steps
was executed:
"   Initialization.All valves were closed.
*   Queue sample and reagent. PCR reagent was pneumatically driven into the PCR metering
    chambers of the biochip (Figure 28, 412) by applying 1 psig to drive line DR (Figure 28,
    419). A volume of 9 microliters of master mix was metered. The sample for each lane was
    queued at a vent membrane by applying I psig to drive line DS (Figure 28, 418).
"   Remove excess PCR reagent. Excess PCR master mix was removed from the distribution
    channels by flowing into the reagent waste chamber (Figure 28, 414) by opening valve WV
    (Figure 28, 413) and applying I psig to drive line DR (Figure 28, 419). The reagent waste

                                              -56
  chamber (Figure 28, 414) was sealed by closing valve WV (Figure 28, 413) and drive line
  DR (Figure 28, 419) was deactivated.
* Move reagentinto joining chamber (JC). The PCR master mix was pneumatically driven into
  the joining chamber (Figure 28, 415) by opening valves RV (Figure 28, 416) and applying a
  pneumatic drive pressure of 1 psig to DR (Figure 28, 418) for 30 seconds. Reagent valves
  RV (Figure 28, 416) was closed and DR (Figure 28, 418) was deactivated.
" Move sample into joining chamber (JC). Sample was pneumatically driven into the joining
  chamber (Figure 28, 415) by opening valves SV (Figure 28, 415) and applying a pneumatic
  drive pressure of I psig for 30 seconds to DS (Figure 28, 419). The sample and PCR master
  mix were joined together in the joining chamber to form the PCR solution. Valve SV (Figure
  4.6, 415) is closed and drive line DS (Figure 4.6, 419) was deactivated.4.6, 419).
e Move PCR solution into mixing chamber (MC). The PCR solution was into the mixing
  chamber (Figure 28, 421) by opening Valve JCV (Figure 28, 420) and RV (Figure 28, 416)
  and applying a pressure of I psig for 30 seconds to DR (Figure 28, 418).
" Mix the sample and reagent. Reciprocal mixing was performed by driving the PCR solution
  into an air chamber AC (Figure 28, 422) by opening valves RV (Figure 28, 416; valve JCV is
  already open) and applying a drive pressure to DR (Figure 28 418) that linearly increases
  from 0 - l5psig and then from 15 - 0 psig (over 30 seconds). This was repeated 2 times.
  Valves JCV (Figure 28, 420) and RV (Figure 28, 416) were closed and DR (Figure 28, 418)
  was deactivated.
* Move PCR solution into PCR chambers (PC). The PCR solution was moved into the PCR
  chamber (Figure 28, 423) by opening valves PV1 (Figure 28, 424), PV2 (Figure 28, 425),
  JCV (Figure 28, 420) and RV (Figure 28, 416) and applying a pressure of 0.5 psig for 30
  seconds to drive line DR (Figure 28, 418). Valves PVI (Figure 28, 424), PV2 (Figure 28,
  425), JCV (Figure 28, 420) and RV (Figure 28, 416) were closed.
* Thermal cycle. Valves PVI (Figure 28, 424) and PV2 (Figure 28, 425) were closed, and
  thermal cycling was performed with a 28 cycle protocol that required 17 minutes.
* Retrieve PCR product. Valves OVI (FIGURE 4.6, 426), PV1(Figure 28, 424), PV2 (Figure
  28, 425), JCV (Figure 28, 420) and RV (Figure 28, 416) were opened. A pipette tip was used
  to manually retrieve PCR product from port OP (Figure 29, 427). PCR products were
  retrieved from the 16 biochip samples.

                                               -57
[0211] Results. Following the execution of the script, the PCR reaction was removed from each
channel and separated and detected on Genebench. A representative STR profile for the reaction
is shown in Figure 32.
Example 5 CNC machining of a fully integrated biochip that purifies nucleic acids,
amplifies the purified DNA, electrophoretically separates the amplified DNA and generates
an STR profile using an automated script.
[0212] A stationary, unitary plastic biochip that accepts 5 buccal swabs and generates STR
profiles consists of the following parts:
[0213] Fluidic subassembly - This subassembly transfers and processes fluids within the
biochip, interacting with the pneumatic subassembly, macrofluidic processing subassembly,
valve subassembly, and separation and detection subassembly. The fluidic plate of the fluidic
subassembly was fabricated by CNC machining an interconnected set of channels and chambers
onto both the top and bottom sides of a COP sheet. The fluidic plate has dimensions of 276 mm
x 117 mm x 2.5 mm. Figure 33 shows the top side of the fluidic plate 1, Figure 34 shows the
bottom side of the fluidic plate 1, and Figure 35 shows a transparent view of the fluidic plate 1,
showing features from both sides. The CNC-machined fluidic plate was fabricated by machining
an injection-molded blank with a thickness of 2.5 mm. Both the top and bottom sides of the plate
are covered with patterned thin plastic films. Figure 36 shows the top patterned thin film 2 and
Figure 37 shows the bottom patterned thin film 3; the thin films have a thickness of 100 microns.
An advantage of having features present on both the top and bottom of the fluidic plate is that
only one fluidic plate is required for the assembly (two plates would be required otherwise). In
general, minimizing the number of plates in an assembly is a major advantage in that it makes
alignment of parts more straightforward and reliable, minimizes the effects of differential
warpage and shrinkage, and thereby allows more effective assembly at reduced cost.
[0214] The channels in this biochip can be characterized as follows: 1) Sample processing
channels. Each buccal swab to be analyzed corresponds to a unique set of channels that perform
DNA purification, PCR amplification, separation and detection, and all the process steps
required to conduct these nucleic acid manipulations. The unique set of channels for each sample
do not communicate with the sets of channels for other samples. That is to say, channels do not
communicate from sample to sample and do not share chambers (other than an anode chamber),
filter regions, or membrane regions related to other samples, thereby preserving the purity of
each sample and avoiding inadvertent sample mixing or cross contamination. Certain pneumatic
drive lines split to drive multiples samples in parallel, but the driving is accomplished

                                                -58
pneumatically, preserving the integrity of each sample. Moreover, the unique set of channels for
each sample is a closed pathway; only air form the pneumatic drivelines enter the biochip, and
only air through vent membranes leave the biochip-liquid reagents are provided by the biochip
and liquids do not leave the biochip. Figure 38 shows the path 4 a single sample takes through
the fluidic plate.  Figure 39 shows an expanded view of this path 4 through the purification
region 5, Figure 40 shows an expanded view of this path 4 through the amplification region 6,
and Figure 41 shows an expanded view of this path 4 taken through the separation and detection
region 7. It is important to note that the direction of electrophoresis is opposite to that of
purification and amplification. This direction change is facilitated by through holes in the fluidic
layer that pass sample to the separation and detection layer just below. 2) Gel processing
channels. These channels are utilized to fill the separation and detection subassembly with
sieving matrix and buffer in preparation for separation and detection. That is to say, the channels
are filled from common reagent reservoirs.           After purification, amplification, and pre
electrophoresis are complete, each separation channel receives a unique sample via sample
specific cathodes. Each sample has a unique cathode chamber and separation channel, and all
samples share a single anode chamber through which electrophoresis reagents are loaded.
[0215] The fluidic plate contains a particulate filter region, a purification membrane region, and
several types of chambers, including metering chambers, reconstitution chambers, mixing
chambers, joining chambers, waste chambers, and cathode and anode chambers. These chambers
and regions are in line with the channels and have shapes and dimensions determined by the
required functionality. For example, a reagent metering chamber (Figure 40, 8) is characterized
by different dimensions and volumes than a cathode chamber (Figure 41, 9) or a reconstitution
chamber (Figure 40, 10).
[0216] The channels, chambers, and filter and membrane regions are covered, in this case by
bonding thin thermoplastic films (CNC-machined or injection molded plates can also form the
covers). The sandwich of thin film - fluidic layer - thin film is termed the "fluidic subassembly."
[0217] The films have themselves been patterned by CNC machining, and the thin films of the
invention can also be patterned by a number of processes including die cutting or punching and
laser cutting. These thin films have features including through holes that are aligned to the
corresponding features on the CNC machined fluidic layer to provide access to the features of
the fluidic layer. For example, sample passes from the fluidic layer through the through holes in
the bottom patterned thin film to the separation and detection subassembly. Prior to bonding the
top and bottom thin films to the plate, additional components are also incorporated for functions

                                                  -59
including particulate filtration (Figure 39, 11), DNA purification (Figure 39, 12), and venting
(Figure 41, 13). Bonding of the patterned thin films to the fluidic plate was accomplished
thermally but can also be performed ultrasonically, with solvents, and using adhesives. Features
on the plate and films can be added to facilitate the bonding method; for example, energy
director ridges can be placed at the sites of ultrasonic welding.
[0218] Pneumatic subassembly -         This subassembly couples the pneumatic drive of the
instrument (as described in Example 3), to the fluidic subassembly, macrofluidic processing
subassembly, valve subassembly, and separation and detection subassembly to pneumatically
drive fluids and activate valves within the biochip. This subassembly is fabricated by CNC
machining an interconnected series of pneumatic drive lines onto each of the two sides of a COP
sheet. Some of the drivelines are sample-specific and others are related to non-sample specific
functions such as gel filling. Figure 42 shows the top side of the pneumatic plate 14, Figure 43
shows the bottom side of the pneumatic plate 14, and Figure 44 shows a transparent view of the
pneumatic plate 14, showing features from both sides. The pneumatic plate has dimensions of
276.7 mm x 117.3 mm x 2.50 mm. The CNC-machined pneumatic plate was fabricated by
machining an injection-molded blank with a thickness of 2.5 mm. The top side of the pneumatic
plate is covered with a patterned thin plastic film 15 (Figure 45). The bottom side of the
pneumatic plate is covered with an intact thin film 16, and certain regions of this film are cut out
following bonding (Figure 46) to allow access to the plate from the valve subassembly. Both the
patterned and unpatterned thin films have a thickness of 100 microns. Patterns can be cut prior to
bonding (as in the case of the top pneumatic film) or following bonding (as is the case with the
bottom pneumatic film). The reason a post-bonding patterning step was selected was because the
large cut-out regions were readily removed post-bonding. Bonding of the thin films to the
pneumatic plate was accomplished thermally but can also be performed ultrasonically, with
solvents, and using adhesives. Features on the plate and films can be added to facilitate the
bonding method; for example, energy director ridges can be placed at the sites of ultrasonic
welding. Finally, the pneumatic plate can also have fluidic features and vice versa. This can be
useful if, for example, the fluidic plate is saturated with features and the pneumatic plate has
available space. The pneumatic plate in this case would still be referred to as a pneumatic plate
because of its position in the overall biochip and the fact that the majority of its features were
pneumatic.     Regardless of their location, pneumatic lines and channels contain only air.       In
contrast, fluidic features may contain liquids and air.
[0219] The features in the thin plastic films include through holes that are aligned to the
corresponding features on the CNC machined pneumatic layer to provide direct access to the

                                                 -60
pneumatic layer or indirect access to the fluidic layer via the pneumatic layer. For example,
reagents in chambers of the macrofluidic processing subassembly pass through the through holes
of the pneumatic subassembly (thin films and pneumatic plate) on their way to the fluidic
subassembly.    Bonding of the patterned thin films to the pneumatic plate was accomplished
thermally but can also be performed ultrasonically, with solvents, by clamping, and using
adhesives.
[0220] Valve subassembly - This subassembly is located between the pneumatic subassembly
and the fluidic subassembly. It consists of an elastomeric material, which, when pneumatically
activated, will deform, thereby stopping flow of fluids (including air) within the fluidic layer.
This subassembly consists of an elastomeric film that can be deflected, but any of the valve
assemblies described in Example 2 can be incorporated.
[0221] Pneumatic-valve-fluidic stack - This subassembly is fabricated by assembling the
pneumatic subassembly, valve subassembly, and fluidic subassembly, and thermally bonding the
stack together. Vent membranes (Figure 44, 17) are incorporated into this subassembly by
placing them over the venting features of the fluidic subassembly (Figure 35, 13) and
corresponding features in the pneumatic subassembly. The vent membrane is in the form of a
single strip that is used to cover the venting features of multiple samples simultaneously. One
vent membrane strip is applied to cover many venting areas. In general, reduction in part counts
allows for ease of assembly, whether manual or automated. Bonding of the two subassemblies
can also be performed thermally, ultrasonically, with solvents, by clamping, and using adhesives.
Features on the plate and films can be added to facilitate the bonding method; for example,
energy director ridges can be placed at the sites of ultrasonic welding or an additional bonding
layer can be used to facilitate thermal bonding.
[0222] Macrofluidic processing subassembly -         This subassembly consists of two major
elements: a macrofluidic block and a cover. This subassembly accepts samples, provides
reagents to the biochip, and serves as the interface between microfluidic and macrofluidic
volumes and processes, as further described in App. Ser. No. 12/699,564 entitled "Nucleic Acid
Purification," which is incorporated herein by reference. Figure 47 shows the macrofluidic block
18 with swab 19, lysis solution 20, ethanol 21, wash solution 22, and elution solution 23 reagent
chambers, and fluidic processing chambers for lysate holding 24, eluate homogenization 25, air
58, TTE 59, and formamide 60 chambers. The dimensions of the block are 102.8 mm x 50.5 mm
x 74.7 mm. The macrofluidic block utilizes volumes from 0.15 - 3.0 ml and interfaces with the
pneumatic subassembly and the cover. The side of the block contains pneumatic drive lines 26;

                                               -61
these originate at the pneumatic interface of the pneumatic subassembly and pass through it to
the block. From the block, the drive lines pass to the cover. While some embodiments, including
the embodiment described in this Example 5, include the macroprocessing subassembly, not all
biochips in accordance to the technology described herein include the macroprocessing
subassembly. For example, a sample of DNA or purified cells could be injected into a biochip
including the pneumatic subassembly and the fluidics subassembly connected by the valve
assembly.
[0223] Figure 48 - 54 show the cover. The cover consists of three layers. Figure 48 shows the
top of cover layer 1 27, Figure 49 shows the bottom of cover layer 1 27, and Figure 50 shows a
transparent view of cover layer 1 27. Figure 51 shows cover layer 2 28. Figure 52 shows the top
of cover layer 3 29, Figure 53 shows the bottom of cover layer 3 29, and Figure 54 shows a
transparent view of cover layer 3 29. The dimensions of the assembled cover are 50.8 mm x
118.4 x 4.5 mm. The cover functions to bring pneumatic drive lines from the side of the block to
the top of the macrofluidic chambers to facilitate reagent transfer, bubbling, and fluidic
processing.   The cover also has venting features associated with the swab chambers 30 and
Eluate holding chambers 31. The vent membranes isolate the chambers in that they do not allow
fluid to escape while allowing air to escape to normalize pressure. The cover also serves to hold
the swab in place. Optionally, the swab cap or cover can incorporate a locking mechanism to
hold the sample in place.
[0224] The macrofluidic block and cover components were fabricated by CNC machining a
thermoplastic. Alternatively, these parts can be fabricated by injection molding and compression
injection molding and extrusion. To mold the macrofluidic processing block aspect ratios are
greater than 2 and draft angles of less than I 'C are incorporated into the design. The
macrofluidic block was attached to the cover by clamping using a gasket and screws. The block
is attached to the pneumatic subassembly using double-sided PSA. Alternatively, the block
attachments can be made by solvent and thermal bonding.
[0225] Additional approaches to macrofluidic processing are described in pending App. Ser. No.
12/699,564 entitled    "Nucleic Acid Purification,"      incorporated by reference   herein. The
macrofluidic processing assembly offers substantially flexibility to the applications of the
biochip. The liquid reagents and their volumes can be readily modified based on the types of
sample manipulations being performed. The swab chamber can be modified to accept a wide
variety of samples including different types of swabs, blood samples, and environmental
samples. In certain circumstances, these changes can be made with minimal changes to the

                                                -62
pneumatic-valve-fluidic stack; for example, simply changing the lyophilized cakes in the stack
would allow an entirely different amplification assay to be performed on a different sample type.
[0226] Separation and detection subassembly - This subassembly is used for the separation and
detection of nucleic acids and consisted of 16 microchannels, each with an injection and
separation portion. Detailed description of separation and detection in plastic biochips is found in
App. Ser. No. 12/080,745, published as 2009/0020427 entitled "Plastic Microfluidic Separation
and Detection Platforms,", incorporated herein by reference. Two approaches to sample injection
have been utilized, pressure loading and cross injection. Figure 55 shows the separation and
detection biochip for pressure injection 32. It functions by pneumatically driving the sample for
separation and detection to the start of the separation column for electrokinetic injection. The
cross-sectional dimension of the separation channel (90 microns wide and 40 microns deep) and
length of the channel between the anode and the cathode (24 cm) was equal for all channels. This
subassembly was fabricated by embossing onto a thin thermoplastic sheet. Alternately the
subassembly can be made by extrusion or injection molding. Through holes were fabricated
within the embossed sheet to provide access to the channels from the microfluidic subassembly.
The channels were covered by bonding a thin thermoplastic sheet over them.
[0227] Figure 56 shows the        separation and detection      biochip for cross injection for
electrokinetic transport of the sample for separation and detection to the start of the separation
column for electrokinetic injection 33. The dimensions of the biochip are 77.7 mm x 276 mm x
376 microns. The cross-sectional dimension of the separation channel (90 microns wide and 40
microns deep) and length of the channel between the anode and the cross-injector (25 cm) was
equal for all channels. Six of the 16 channels were active in this subassembly. The separation
lengths (distance between the intersection and the excitation/detection window) for each of the
channels range from 16 to 20 cm long. The cross-sectional area of the channels between the
cathode well and the injector was adjusted such that all the electrical resistances, and hence
electric fields between the cathode and the intersection are essentially equal under bias. This
ensured that the electric fields experienced by the samples were identical regardless of the
separation channel into which a sample was loaded. The intersection voltages for all channels
were essentially identical. The sample inlet and sample waste arms for sample injection were
both 2.5 mm long. The offset between both channels was 500 microns. This subassembly was
fabricated by embossing onto a thin thermoplastic sheet. Alternatively, the subassembly may be
fabricated by extrusion or injection molding.         Through holes were fabricated within the
embossed sheet to provide access to the channels from the microfluidic subassembly. The

                                                -63
channels were covered by solvent bonding another thin thermoplastic sheet. Alternatively, the
sheet can be attached by thermal bonding or thermal-assisted solvent bonding.
[0228] The separation and detection subassembly (whether pressure loading or cross injection
format) was attached to the fluidic subassembly using adhesive tape, and the subassemblies were
oriented such that nucleic acid flow in within the separation and detection biochip was conducted
in the opposite direction as NA purification and amplification. That is to say that the nucleic
acids traveled through the separation and detection subassembly in the reverse direction from the
general flow of fluids during purification and PCR amplification. This reverse of direction by
using opposite sides of the subassembly allows the complex biochip to have a substantially
reduced length. Figure 57 illustrates how all the layers - the macrofluidic cover 27, 28, and 29;
the macrofluidic block 18, pneumatic layer with top and bottom films 13, 15 and 16; valve
subassembly layer; fluidic layer with top and bottom film 1, 2, and 3; and separation and
detection biochip 32 or 33 are stacked together to form the biochip. Figure 58 is a photo of the
biochip assembly 34 with arrows indicating the direction of process flows.
[0229] With reference to Figures 39 and 41, to run the biochip the following reagents were
loaded into the macrofluidic processing subassembly prior to the test:
    *   Lysis solution (Figure 39, 20), 550 microliters- Chaotropic salt based reagent for lysing
        cells and releasing DNA from samples.
    *   Ethanol (Figure 39, 21), 550 microliters - Together with the lysis solution,, lyses cells
        and facilitates DNA binding to the silica based purification filter.
    *   Wash solution (Figure 39, 22), 3 ml - Ethanol based reagent for washing the purification
        filter to remove proteins and other biological materials to generate pure DNA.
    *   Elution solution (Figure 39, 23), 300 microliters, - Tris-EDTA based reagent that
        releases the purified DNA from the purification filter and stabilizes the DNA.
    *   TTE buffer (Figure 41, 58), 1.6 ml - Tris-Taps-EDTA based reagent for electrophoresis.
    *   Formamide (Figure 41, 59) 150 microliters - Denaturation solution for diluting PCR
        product to prepare the sample for separation and detection. By mixing sample and
        forinamide at a ratio of approximately 1:4 (range from 1: 50 to 1 to 1.5), it is not
        necessary to perform heating or snap cooling to effect denaturation. The obviation of the
        conventional heat/cooling steps simplifies the instrument.

                                                 -64
[0230] With reference to Figures 40 and 41, the following lyophilized reagents were loaded into
the fluidic subassembly of the biochip prior to the test:
     *  PCR cake Figure 40, 10, - Lyophilized PCR reaction mix.
     *  Internal lane (sizing) standard (ILS) cake Figure 41, 35 - Lyophilized DNA fragments
        that are fluorescently labeled to allow the electrophoretic mobility of the amplified
        fragments to be correlated to molecular weights.
An advantage of this approach is that all lyophilized reagents are located within one
subassembly. This allows for improved supply chain management as the conditions for filling
lyophilized cakes (low humidity and static) are quite different from and much more demanding
than those for filling liquids. Accordingly, liquid and lyophilized reagents can be filled separated
and in parallel. Optionally, a lyophilized cake containing allelic ladder and ILS fragments can be
inserted into the top cake chamber 35 for STR analytic runs.
[0231] The following reagent was loaded into the separation and detection section of the biochip
prior to the test:
     *  Sieving matrix (Figure 55, 36 and Figure 56, 36) - High molecular weight linear
        polyacrylamide solution for electrophoretic sieving of DNA.
[0232] The biochip was inserted to a single, fully integrated instrument that contains the
following subsystems (Figure 59) as described in US Patent App. Ser. No. 12/396,110, entitled
Ruggedized Apparatus for Analysis of Nucleic Acid and Proteins, Published as 2009/0229983
(See, e.g., para. 65-76); US Patent App. Ser. No.12/080,746 entitled Methods for Rapid
Multiplexed Amplification of Target Nucleic Acids, Published as 2009/0023602         (See, e.g, para.
54 and 56-67): US Patent App. Ser. No. 12/080,751 entitled Integrated Nucleic Acid Analysis,
Published as 2009/0059222 (See, e.g., para. 139-144);       US Patent App. Ser. No. 12/080,745,
entitled Plastic Microfluidic Separation and Detection Platforms, Published as 2009/0020427
(See, e.g., para 95), all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties, by reference. The
subsytems include:
[0233] Pneumatic subsystem - A pneumatic and vacuum pump is connected to a pneumatic
manifold (Figure 44, 61 as described in Example 4) through a set of tanks and solenoid valves.
This manifold is in turn connected to the pneumatic ports of the biochip through the pneumatic
interface. The solenoid valves are controlled by the process controller.
[0234] Thermal subsystem - A peltier based thermal cycling system is coupled to the thermal
cycling chambers (Figure 35, 62) of the biochip to rapidly cycle the reactions within these

                                               -65
channels. As noted in Example 4, a clamp applies pressure to the amplification region to allow
efficient thermal transfer with the thermal cycler. The reaction temperatures and dwell times are
controlled by the process controller.
[0235] High voltage subsystem - A high voltage power supply is coupled to the anode (Figure
55, 63) and cathode (Figure 55, 64) portions of the separation biochip. Note that the anode
electrodes pass through the pneumatic and fluidic pates at anode portion (Figure 44, 65 and
Figure 35, 65) and the cathode electrode is incorporated into the cathode portion within the
fluidic plate and pneumatic plates (Figure 44, 66 and Figure 35, 66) to gain access to the
separation and detection biochip. Application of a high voltage generates an electric field along
the channels to effect pre-electrophoresis, sample injection, and separation and detection. The
high voltage subsystem is controlled by the process controller.
[0236] Optical subsystem - An optical system is coupled to the excitation and detection window
of separation and detection biochip that is within the biochip (Figure 55, 67 and 56, 67). Note
that the light passes through an open window on the pneumatic and fluidic plates (refer to Figure
44, 38 and Figure 35, 37 ). The optical system consists of a laser that is used to induce
fluorescence from labeled DNA fragments within the separation channel. A set of dichroic
mirrors is used to separate wavelength components of the fluorescence. A set of photomultiplier
tubes are used to detect the fluorescence signals. A set of optical components is used to transfer
light (laser excitation and emitted fluorescence) between the laser and the separation and
detection biochip, and the separation and detection biochip and the detectors. The optical
subsystem is controlled by the process controller.
[0237] Process controller - A computer based controller that can accept a pre-defined process
script and implement the script automatically by reading the script and controlling the
subsystems accordingly. Note that the computer also performs data processing and data analysis
as required.
[0238] The sample-in to results out process was performed as follows. Five swabs were
collected from donors. The swabs were collected by pressing the head of a Bode Secur-swab
swab to the inside of the cheek as instructed by the manufacturer.     Each of the 5 swabs was
inserted into one of the swab chambers of the biochip, the biochip was placed into the
instrument, and the automated process script was initiated to carry out the swab-in to results-out
analysis. An automated script with the following steps was executed:

                                               -66
" Initialization.All valves on the biochip were closed by applying pressure on valve lines. The
  valves in Example 5 were actuated with 20 psig of pressure to close and vented to
  atmosphere to open. The exception is valve V3 (Figure 39, 41) which was maintained in the
  open position by the application of a vacuum of -11 psig. For simplicity, valve numbers are
  referred to based on their position relative to the pneumatic plate (even though the valves are
  actually located within the valve assembly).
" Lysis. 550 microliters of lysis solution was pneumatically loaded from the lysis reagent
  chamber (Figure 39, 20) into the swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) by opening valve VI (Figure
  39, 39) and applying a pressure of 3 psig to drive line DL1 (Figure 39, 68) for 30 seconds
  and then 5.5 psig for 60 sec. Valve VI (Figure 39, 39) was closed and drive line 1 (Figure
  39, 68) was deactivated. 550 microliters of ethanol from the ethanol reagent chamber (Figure
  39, 21) was pneumatically loaded into the swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) by opening valve
  V2 (Figure 39, 40) and applying a drive pressure of 5.5 psig to drive line 2 (Figure 39, 69)
  for 30 seconds.
* Chaotic bubbling. Air was pneumatically driven into the swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) by
  opening valve V2 (Figure 39, 40) and applying a pneumatic pressure of 5.5 psig to drive line
  2 (Figure 39, 69) for 30 seconds. Valve 2 (Figure 39, 40) was closed and drive line 2 (Figure
  39, 69) was deactivated. The air that was driven into the swab chamber bubbled through the
  lysis solution chaotically agitating both the lysis reagent and the swab head. This lysed the
  cells and released DNA.
e Queuing. The lysate was pulled from the swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) through a particulate
  filter (Figure 39, 11) into a holding chamber (Figure 39, 24) by maintaining valve V3 (Figure
  39, 41) in the open position while applying a vacuum of -7 psig to drive line 3 (Figure 39,
  70) for 30 seconds to transfer the lysate. Valve 3 (Figure 39, 41) was closed and drive line 3
  (Figure 39, 70) was deactivated.
" DNA binding. Lysate from the holding chamber (Figure 39, 24) was pneumatically driven
  through the purification filter (Figure 39, 12) and into the swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) by
  opening valve V4 (Figure 39, 42) and a set of valves V5 (Figure 39, 43) and applying a
  pressure of 5 psig for 60 sec to drive line DL3 (Figure 39, 70). Valves V4 (Figure 39, 42) and
  V5 (Figure 39, 43) were closed and DL3 (Figure 39, 70) was deactivated. DNA within the
  lysate bound to the purification filter (Figure 39, 12). Note that the swab chamber also served
  as a waste chamber following generation and processing of the lysate; this dual use
  eliminated the need for another large volume chamber on the macrofluidic block. Separate
  waste chambers from each sample can optionally be included if retention of lysate is desired.

                                                -67
" Wash. Wash solution was pneumatically driven from the wash reagent chamber (Figure 39,
  22) through the purification filter (Figure 39, 12) into the swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) by
  opening valves V5 (Figure 39, 43) and V6 (Figure 39, 46), and applying a pneumatic
  pressure of 13 psig to drive line DL4 (Figure 39, 71)for 90 seconds. Valves V5 (Figure 39,
  43) and V6 (Figure 39, 46) were closed and DL4 (Figure 39, 71) deactivated. 3 ml of wash
  was passed through the purification filter to remove contaminants and particulate debris from
  the bound DNA. Two additional washes allowed cleaning of adjacent channels.
* Dry. Air was pneumatically driven through the purification filter (Figure 39, 12) and into the
  swab chamber (Figure 39, 19) by opening valve V5(Figure 39, 43) and V6 (Figure 39, 46),
  and applying a pressure of 13 psig to drive line DL4 (Figure 39, 46) for 185 seconds. Valves
  V5 and V6 were closed and DL4 (Figure 39, 71) was deactivated. The air partially to fully
  dries the purification filter.
* Elution. Elution buffer is pneumatically driven from the elution reagent chamber (Figure 39,
  23) through the purification filter (Figure 39, 12) and into an eluate holding chamber (Figure
  39, 25) by opening valves V6 (Figure 39, 46), V7 (Figure 39, 45) and V8 (Figure 39, 47) and
  applying a pressure of 5 psig to drive line DL5 (Figure 39, 72) for 120 seconds. Valves V6
  (Figure 39, 46), V7 (Figure 39, 45) and V8 (Figure 39, 47) were closed and DL5 (Figure 39,
  72) was deactivated. 300 microliters of elution buffer was passed through the purification
  filter (Figure 39, 12) to release purified DNA that was bound to the purification filter.
" Homogenization. Air was pneumatically driven into the eluate holding chamber by opening
  valve V6 (Figure 39, 46), and V8 (Figure 39, 47) and applying a pressure of 5 psig to drive
  line DL4 (Figure 39, 71) for 60 seconds. Valves V6 (Figure 39, 46), and V8 (Figure 39, 47)
  were and DL4 (Figure 39, 71) was deactivated. The air that was driven into the eluate
  holding chamber bubbles through the eluate to agitation and homogenize the DNA within the
  eluate. Optionally, a portion of the eluate can be routed to a storage chamber or onto a
  storage filter if a retention sample of the purified DNA is desired.
" Eluate metering. Eluate was pneumatically driven from the Eluate holding chamber (Figure
  39, 25) into the eluate metering chambers (Figure 40, 8) by opening Valve VI         (Figure 39,
  48) and applying pressure to DL6 (Figure 39, 73) 1 psig for 40 seconds. Valves VI         (Figure
  39, 48) was closed and DL6 (Figure 39, 73) was deactivated. Each eluate filled the metering
  chamber and stopped at a vent membrane. Excess eluate was pneumatically driven back into
  the Eluate holding chamber by opening valves VIO (Figure 39, 48) and VII (Figure 40, 50)
  and applying a pressure of 2 psig to Drive line DL7 (Figure 40, 49) for 25 seconds. Valves

                                             -68
  V1O (Figure 39, 48) and VII (Figure 40, 50) were closed and DL7 (Figure 40, 49) was
  deactivated.
* Reconstitute PCR cake. The eluate was pneumatically driven from the eluate metering
  chamber (Figure 40, 8) into the PCR cake chamber (Figure 40, 10) by opening valves VII
  (Figure 40, 50) and V12 (Figure 40, 51) and applying a drive sequence of 0.2 psig for 30
  seconds, then 0.4 psig for 30 sec, then 0.6 psig for 60 sec to drive line DL7 (Figure 41, 49).
  Valves VII (Figure 40, 50) and V12 (Figure 40, 51) were closed and (Figure 41, 49) was
  deactivated. 20.5 microliters of metered eluate was transferred to reconstitute the cake
  containing the lyophilized PCR reaction mix to generate the PCR mix for amplification.
* Transfer into thermal cycling chamber. PCR reaction mix was pneumatically driven from the
  cake chamber (Figure 40, 10) into the thermal cycling chambers (Figure 40, 62) by opening
  valves VII (Figure 40, 50), V12 (Figure 40, 51), V13 (Figure 40, 52), and V14 (Figure 40,
  53), and applying a sequentially increasing drive pressure sequence of 0.2 psig for 30
  seconds, then 0.4 psig for 30 sec, then 0.6 psig for 30 sec to drive line DL7 (Figure 40, 49).
  Valves VII (Figure 40, 50), V12 (Figure 40, 51), V13 (Figure 40, 52), and V14 (Figure 40,
  53) were closed, and DL7 (Figure 40, 49) was deactivated. The PCR reaction mix was
  transferred into the thermal cycling chambers and stops at the queuing vent membrane.
* Thermal cycle. A thirty-one cycle protocol was applied to cycle the reaction within the
  thermal cycling chambers (Figure 40, 62) to generate labeled amplicons. (See, Giese, H., et
  al. (2009). "Fast multiplexed polymerase chain reaction for conventional and microfluidic
  short tandem repeat analysis." J Forensic Sci 54(6): 1287-96, and App. Ser. No. 12/080,746,
  published as 2009/0023603, entitled "Methods for Rapid Multiplexed Amplification of
  Target Nucleic Acids," both of which are incorporated herein by reference), The cycling
  conditions were as follows: Hotstart 93oC x 20 seconds followed by 31 cycles of (93oC x 4
  seconds, 56oC x 15 seconds, and 70oC x 7 seconds) followed by a final extension of 70oC x
  90 seconds.
* Meter PCR product. PCR product was pneumatically driven from the thermal cycling
  chambers (Figure 40, 62) into the PCR metering chamber (Figure 41, 74) by opening valves
  VII (Figure 40, 50), V12 (Figure 40, 51), V13 (Figure 40, 52), V14 (Figure 40, 53), and V30
  (Figure 41, 111) and applying a sequentially increasing drive pressure sequence of 0.2 psig
  for 30 seconds, then 0.4 psig for 30 sec, then 0.6 psig for 45 sec drive line DL7 (Figure 40,
  49). Valves ViI (Figure 40, 50), V12 (Figure 40, 51), V13 (Figure 40, 52), V14 (Figure 40,
  53) and V30 (Figure 41, 111) were closed and DL7 (Figure 40, 49) was deactivated. The
  PCR product flows into the metering chamber and stops at a vent membrane.

                                                  -69
* Meter formamide. Formamide was pneumatically driven from the formamide reagent
  chamber (Figure 41, 60) into the formamide metering chamber (Figure 41, 76) by applying a
  pressure of 1 psig for 50 seconds to drive line DL8 (Figure 41, 75) . Drive line DL8 (Figure
  41, 75) was deactivated. In this step, a   6 1h volume of fonamide was metered (Figure 41, 77)
  for reconstituting a cake to generate a control sample. The formamide flows into the metering
  chamber and stops at a vent membrane. Excess formamide is pneumatically driven from the
  formamide chamber into a waste chamber by opening valve V15 (Figure 41, 54) and
  applying a pressure of 3 psig for 180 seconds to drive line DL8 (Figure 41, 75). Valve V15
  (Figure 41, 54) was closed and DL8 (Figure 41, 75) was deactivated. All of the excess
  formamide reagent chamber and drive line was transferred into the waste chamber.
* Join PCR product andformamide. Metered PCR product was pneumatically driven from the
  PCR metering chamber (Figure 41, 74) into the joining chamber (Figure 41, 78) by opening
  valve V18 (Figure 41, 57), V17 (Figure 41, 80) and V20 (Figure 41, 81) and applying a 4
  step drive profile of .0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 psig for 30, 30, 30, and 30 sec respectively to drive
  line DL9 (Figure 41, 79). Valve V18 (Figure 41, 57), V17 (Figure 41, 80) and V20 (Figure
  41, 81) were closed and DL9 (Figure 41, 79) was deactivated. Metered formamide was
  pneumatically driven from the formamide metering chamber (Figure 41, 76) into the joining
  chamber (Figure 41, 78) by opening valve V16 (Figure 41, 55) and V20 (Figure 41, 81) and
  applying an increasing pressure of 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 psig for 30, 30, and 60 seconds to drive
  line DL8 (Figure 41, 75). Valve V16 (Figure 41, 55) and V20 (Figure 41, 81) were closed
  and DL8 (Figure 41, 75) was deactivated. The joining chamber allows the metered PCR and
  the metered formamide which originate from two independent flow to be combined to form
  the sample for separation and detection.
* Reconstitute ILS cake. The sample for separation and detection was pneumatically driven
  into the ILS cake chambers (Figure 41, 35) by opening valves V16 (Figure 41, 55) and V19
  (Figure 41, 56), and applying an increasing pressure of 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 psig for 30, 30, and
  60 seconds to drive line DL8 (Figure 41, 75). V16 (Figure 41, 55) and V19 (Figure 41, 56)
  were closed and DL8 (Figure 41, 75) was deactivated. The sample for separation and
  detection which is composed of 4.1 microliters of PCR product and 16.4 microliters of
  formamide reconstituted the ILS cake within the chamber to generate the separation and
  detection sample.
* Reconstitute Control+ILScake. The 6 th metered formamide volume is pneumatically driven
  into the control+ILS cake chamber (Figure 41, 83) by opening valves V16 and V20, and
  applying an increasing pressure of 0.2, 0.4 and 0.6 psig for 30, 30, and 60 seconds to drive

                                                 -70
    line DL9. V16 and V20 are closed and DL9 is deactivated. The 20.5 microliters of
    formamide reconstituted the cake within the chamber to generate the separation and detection
    sample.
" Inject samples into separation channel. The 6 separation and detection samples were
    pneumatically driven from the cake chambers (Figure 41, 35 and 82) through a debubbling
    chamber (Figure 41, 83) to fill the cathode chamber (Figure 41, 84) and a sample waste
    chamber (Figure 41, 85) by opening valve V21 (Figure 41, 86) and V22 (Figure 41, 87) and
    applying a pressure to drive line DL8 (Figure 41, 74) with a sequentially stepped profile of
    0.4, 0.6, 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 psig for 30, 30, 30, 30, and 30 seconds respectively. (Figure 41, 86)
    and V22 (Figure 41, 87) were closed and DL8 (Figure 41, 74) was deactivated. The DNA
    within the sample was injected from the cathode chamber (Figure 41, 84) into the separation
    portion of the biochip (Figure 56 and Figure 55, 88), by applying a voltage of 4400 V was
    applied to bias the cathode (Figure 55 and 56, 63) and anode (Figure 55 and 56, 64) for 35
    seconds.
*   Separate and detect DNA. TTE was pneumatically driven from the from the TTE reagent
    reservoir (Figure 41, 59) to fill the cathode (Figure 41, 84) and to fill TTE waste chambers
    (Figure 41, 92, 93, and 13) by opening valves V25 (Figure 41, 91), V24 (Figure 41, 90), V26
    (Figure 41, 95), V27 (Figure 41, 96), and V28 (Figure 41, 97) and applying a pressure to
    drive line DL1O (Figure 41,98) for 2 psig for 240 seconds. valves V25 (Figure 41, 91), V24
    (Figure 41, 90), V26 (Figure 41, 95), V27 (Figure 41, 96), and V28 (Figure 41, 97) were
    closed and DL1O (Figure 41,98) was deactivated. The flow of TTE through the cathodes
    displaced the sample within the cathodes. DNA that was injected into the separation portion
    of the S&D biochip (Figure 55) traveled down the separation portion of the biochip (Figure
    56, 88), when a 6400 V was applied to bias the cathode (Figure 55 and 56, 63) and anode
    (Figure 55 and 5.24, 64) for 30 min. The optical system was also activated to effect laser
    induced fluorescence excitation and detection at the excitation and detection window. The
    laser was set to 200 mW and the data collection rate of 5 Hz is implemented. The fluorescent
    signal travels through the detection path to the photomultiplier tubes. There, the fluorescence
    is converted into a signal that is recorded by the system software.
[0239] Electropherograms (Figure 60 and 61) were generated following the scripted process
steps as outlined above. The control electropherogram (Figure 60) was generated for the control
ILS sample (fragments fluorescently labeled with ROX). The x-axis represents data collection
counts, with each count indicating the time at which the labeled fragment arrive at the detection
zone.    Several of the size standards are indicated by arrows, and lower molecular weight

                                                 -71
fragments migrate more rapidly than higher molecular weight fragments and are detected earlier
(i.e. to the left of the graph). The Y-axis shows the relative fluorescent units (rfu) for each peak.
Figure 61 shows the sizes of the STR fragments generated for one buccal swab sample. Each of
fluorescent dyes used to label the STR primers in the PCR reaction mix and the ILS are shown in
individual panels.       Fluorescein-labeled fragments are shown in the top panel, JOE-labeled
fragments are shown in the second panel from the top, TAMRA-labeled fragments are shown in
the third panel from the top, and ROX-labeled ILS fragments are shown in the bottom panel. The
x- and y- axes are the same as described for Figure 60. The entire process from insertion of
samples to generation of the electropherogram           required approximately 90 minutes and
approximately 215 scripted process steps. Many process steps can be shortened, and the process
can be performed in less than 45 minutes if desired.
Example 6 Injection molding of a fully integrated biochip that purifies nucleic acids,
amplifies the purified DNA, electrophoretically separates the amplified DNA and generates
an STR profile using an automated script.
[0240] This biochip resembles that of Example 5, with the fluidic and pneumatic plates
fabricated by injection molding. The stationary, unitary plastic biochip that accepts 5 buccal
swabs and generates STR profiles consists of the following parts:
[0241] Fluidic subassembly - This subassembly transfers and processes fluids within the
biochip, interacting with the pneumatic subassembly, macrofluidic processing subassembly,
valve subassembly, and separation and detection subassembly. It was fabricated by injection
molding of COP with an interconnected set of channels, chambers, and membrane and filter
features on both the top and bottom sides of the thermoplastic sheet. Figure 62 shows the top
side of the fluidic plate 601, Figure 63 shows the bottom side of the fluidic plate 601, and Figure
64 shows a transparent view of the fluidic plate 601, showing features from both sides. Figure 65
shows a photo of the injection molded fluidic plate 601. The injection molded fluidic plate has
dimensions of 276 mm x 117 mm x 2.5 mm. Both the top and bottom sides of the plate are
covered with patterned thin plastic films. Figure 66 shows the top patterned thin film 602 and
Figure 67 shows the bottom patterned thin film 603.
[0242] The flow path for a single sample within the injection molded fluidic plate is shown in
Figure 68. The sample flows path 4 passes through a purification section (Figure 68, 5), PCR
section (Figure 68, 6) and separation and detection section (Figure 68, 7). Expanded views of the
purification section, PCR section and separation and detection sections are shown in Figures 69,
70, and 71 respectively. The injection molded fluidic plate has a particulate filter region (Figure

                                              -72
69, 11), a purification membrane region (Figure 69, 12), and several types of chambers,
including metering chambers (Figure 69, 8), reconstitution chambers (Figure 69, 10), joining
chambers (Figure 70, 78), waste chambers (Figure 70, 92, 93, and 94), and cathodes (Figure 71,
84) and an anode (Figure 64, 65).
[0243] The top and bottom sides of the fluidic plate were covered with patterned thin plastic
films and attached by solvent bonding. Bonding of the patterned thin films to the fluidic plate
can also be performed ultrasonically, thermally, and using adhesives. Features on the plate and
films can be added to facilitate the bonding method; for example, energy director ridges can be
placed at the sites of ultrasonic welding. The thin films have a thickness of 100 microns and
were fabricated by CNC machining; optionally, they can be fabricated by die cutting, or laser
cutting. The features in the thin plastic films include through holes and were aligned to the
corresponding features on the injection molded layer to provide access to the fluidic sandwich
layer. Purification membranes (Figure 69, 12), particulate filters (Figure 69, 11) and vent
membranes were attached to this subassembly by thermal welding prior to bonding of the thin
films. Similarly, these membranes and filters can be attached by ultrasonic welding and heat
staking.
[0244] Pneumatic subassembly -        This subassembly couples the pneumatic drive of the
instrument to fluidic subassembly (as described in Example 4) to pneumatically drive fluids
within the fluidic subassembly and to pneumatically activating valves within the biochip. This
subassembly was fabricated by injection molding of COP with an interconnected set of channels,
chambers, and membrane and filter features on both the top and bottom sides of the
thermoplastic sheet. Figure 72 shows the top side of the pneumatic plate, Figure 73 shows the
bottom side of the pneumatic plate, and Figure 74 shows a transparent view of the pneumatic
plate, showing features from both sides. Figure 75 shows a photograph of the injection molded
pneumatic plate. The injection molded pneumatic plate has dimensions of 277.6 mm x 117.7 mm
x 2.50 mm. Following bonding, all pneumatic subassembly features align with the fluidic
subassembly features. The top side of the plate is covered with patterned thin plastic film with
through holes to allow access to the plate. Figure 76 shows the top patterned thin film. The
bottom side of the plate is covered when the patterned thin film representing the valve
subassembly is attached by solvent bonding; the thin film is patterned by CNC machining. The
thin films have a thickness of 100 microns. Patterns can be cut prior to bonding or following
bonding. Prior to bonding the top and bottom thin films to the pneumatic plate, vent membranes
are incorporated (Figure 68, 17). Attachment of the thin films to the pneumatic plate was

                                                  -73
accomplished with solvents but can also be perfonned ultrasonically, thermally, and using
adhesives.
[0245] The macrofluidic processing subassembly and separation and detection subassembly are
the same as described in Example 5. In this biochip, the valve assembly is a thin thermoplastic
film that is 40 microns, 50 microns, or 100 microns thick. The pneumatically actuated rigid valve
layer (described in Example 2) separates the pneumatic and the fluidic assemblies. When
pneumatically activated, this layer deflects to control flow of fluids (including air) within the
fluidic layer.
[0246] The pneumatic-valve-fluidic stack subassembly was fabricated by solvent bonding the
pneumatic assembly to the fluidic assembly. The chambers and channels on the bottom side of
the pneumatic plate are sealed when solvent bonded to the fluidic layer. The macrofluidic block
was attached to the cover by clamping using a gasket and screws. The block was attached to the
pneumatic subassembly using double-sided PSA tape. Alternatively, the block attachments can
be made by solvent and thermal bonding. Finally, the separation and detection subassembly was
attached to the fluidic subassembly using PSA tape, and the subassemblies were oriented such
that nucleic acid flow in within the separation and detection biochip was conducted in the
opposite direction as NA purification and amplification.
[0247] To test the biochip, liquid and lyophilized reagents are loaded as described in Example 5
and the biochip is inserted into the fully integrated instrument of Example 5. Five buccal swabs
are collected from donors, and each of the 5 swabs was inserted one of the swab chambers of the
biochip. An automated script with the following steps is executed:
" Initialization.All valves on the biochip are closed by applying pressure of 75 psig on all
    valve lines. The exception is valve V3 which was maintained in the open position by the
    application of a vacuum of -11 psig. For simplicity, valve numbers are referred to based on
    their position relative to the pneumatic plate (even though the valves are actually located
    within the valve assembly).
" Lysis. 550 microliters of lysis solution is pneumatically loaded from the lysis reagent
    chamber (Figure 69, 20) into the swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) by opening valve VI (Figure
    69, 39) and applying a pressure of 3 psig to drive line DL1 (Figure 69, 68) for 30 seconds
    and then 5.5 psig for 60 sec. Valve VI (Figure 69, 39) is closed and drive line 1 (Figure 69,
    68) is deactivated. 550 microliters of ethanol from the ethanol reagent chamber (Figure 69,
    21) is pneumatically loaded into the swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) by opening valve V2

                                                -74
  (Figure 69, 40) and applying a drive pressure of 5.5 psig to drive line 2 (Figure 69, 69) for 30
  seconds.
* Chaotic bubbling. Air is pneumatically driven into the swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) by
  opening valve V2 (Figure 69, 40) and applying a pneumatic pressure of 5.5 psig to drive line
  2 (Figure 69, 69) for 30 seconds. Valve 2 (Figure 69, 40) is closed and drive line 2 (Figure
  69, 69) is deactivated. The air that is driven into the swab chamber bubbles through the lysis
  solution chaotically agitating both the lysis reagent and the swab head. This lysed the cells
  and released DNA.
* Queuing. The lysate is pulled from the swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) through a particulate
  filter (Figure 69, 11) into a holding chamber (Figure 69, 24) by maintaining valve V3 (Figure
  69, 41) in the open position while applying a vacuum of -7 psig to drive line 3 (Figure 69,
  70) for 30 seconds. Valve 3 (Figure 69, 41) is closed and drive line 3 (Figure 69, 70) is
  deactivated.
* DNA binding. Lysate from the holding chamber (Figure 69, 24) is pneumatically driven
  through the purification filter (Figure 69, 12) and into the swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) by
  opening valve V4 (Figure 69, 42) and a set of valves V5 (Figure 69, 43) and applying a
  pressure of 5 psig for 60 sec to drive line DL3 (Figure 69, 70). Valves V4 (Figure 69, 42) and
  V5 (Figure 69, 43) were closed and DL3 (Figure 69, 70) is deactivated. DNA within the
  lysate binds to the purification filter (Figure 69, 12). Note that the swab chamber also serves
  as a waste chamber following generation and processing of the lysate; this dual use
  eliminates the need for another large volume chamber on the macrofluidic block. Separate
  waste chambers from each sample can optionally be included if retention of lysate is desired.
* Wash. Wash solution is pneumatically driven from the wash solution chamber (Figure 69,
  22) through the purification filter (Figure 69, 12) into the swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) by
  opening valves V5 (Figure 69, 43) and V6 (Figure 69, 46), and applying a pneumatic
  pressure of 13 psig to drive line DL4 (Figure 69, 71) for 90 seconds. Valves V5 (Figure 69,
  43) and V6 (Figure 69, 46) were closed and DL4 (Figure 69, 71) deactivated. 3 ml of wash is
  passed through the purification filter to remove contaminants and particulate debris fiom the
  bound DNA. Two additional washes allow cleaning of adjacent channels.
* Dry. Air is pneumatically driven through the purification filter (Figure 69, 12) and into the
  swab chamber (Figure 69, 19) by opening valve V5(Figure 69, 43) and V6 (Figure 69, 46),
  and applying a pressure of 13 psig to drive line DL4 (Figure 69, 46) for 185 seconds. Valves
  V5 and V6 are closed and DL4 (Figure 69, 71) is deactivated. The air partially to fully dries
  the purification filter.

                                               -75
* Elution. Elution buffer is pneumatically driven from the elution reagent chamber (Figure 69,
  23) through the purification filter (Figure 69, 12) and into an eluate holding chamber (Figure
  69, 25) by opening valves V6 (Figure 69, 46), V7 (Figure 69, 45) and V8 (Figure 69, 47) and
  applying a pressure of 5 psig to drive line DL5 (Figure 69, 72) for 120 seconds. Valves V6
  (Figure 69, 46), V7 (Figure 69, 45) and V8 (Figure 69, 47) are closed and DL5 (Figure 69,
  72) was deactivated. 300 microliters of elution buffer is passed through the purification filter
  (Figure 69, 12) to releases purified DNA that was bound to the purification filter. Optionally,
  a portion of the eluate can be routed to a filter for storage as a retention sample. In this case,
  the filter would be incorporated into a mechanism that would allow it to be removed from the
  biochip.
* Homogenization. Air is pneumatically driven into the eluate holding chamber by opening
  valve V6 (Figure 69, 46), and V8 (Figure 69, 47) and applying a pressure of 5 psig to drive
  line DL4 (Figure 69, 71) for 60 seconds. Valves V6 (Figure 69, 46), and V8 (Figure 69, 47)
  were and DL4 (Figure 69, 71) is deactivated. The air that is driven into the eluate holding
  chamber bubbles through the eluate to agitation and homogenize the DNA within the eluate.
* Eluate metering. Eluate is pneumatically driven from the Eluate holding chamber (Figure 69,
  25) into the eluate metering chambers (Figure 70, 8) by opening Valve V1O (Figure 69, 48)
  and applying pressure to DL6 (Figure 69, 73) 1 psig for 40 seconds. Valves V10 (Figure 69,
  48) is closed and DL6 (Figure 69, 73) is deactivated. Each eluate fills the metering chamber
  and stopped at a vent membrane. Excess eluate is pneumatically driven back into the Eluate
  holding chamber by opening valves VI           (Figure 69, 48) and VII (Figure 70, 50) and
  applying a pressure of 2 psig to Drive line DL7 (Figure 70, 49) for 25 seconds. Valves Vi
  (Figure 69, 48) and VII (Figure 70, 50) were closed and DL7 (Figure 70, 49) is deactivated.
* Reconstitute PCR cake. The eluate is pneumatically driven from the eluate metering chamber
  (Figure 70, 8) into the PCR cake reconstitution and reciprocation chamber (Figure 70, 610)
  by opening valve VII (Figure 70, VII) and linearly increasing the drive pressure of DL7
  (Figure 71, 49) from 0 to 15 psig over 15 seconds. The chamber of (Figure 70, 610) is
  designed to hold the lyophilized PCR cake, allow reconstitution of the PCR cake, and
  reciprocal mixing of the PCR reaction. The volume of the chamber is approximately 2.2
  times that of the eluate which is defined by the eluate metering chamber (Figure 70, 8). The
  PCR cake is placed and located at the input side of the chamber. The output of the chamber is
  sealed by a valve. The air between the eluate and the valve V13 (Figure 71, 52) is
  compressed allowing the eluate to move within the chamber and come in contact with the
  lyophilized PCR cake. The cake is allowed to reconstitute by maintaining the pressure of

                                              -76
  DL7 at 15 psig for 60 seconds. 11.5 microliters of metered eluate is transferred to
  reconstitute the cake containing the lyophilized PCR reaction mix to generate the PCR mix
  for amplification.
* Reciprocally Mix the PCR solution - The PCR solution (i.e. PCR cake that is reconstituted
  with eluate) is then moved from the PCR reconstitution and reciprocation chamber (Figure
  70, 10) back to the eluate metering chamber (Figure 70, 8) by linearly decreasing the
  pressure of drive line DL7 from 15 psig to 0 psig over 15 seconds. The air between the eluate
  and valve V13 (Figure 71, 52) is compressed and acts as an air spring to push against the
  PCR mix moving it towards the metering chamber (Figure 71,              8). The PCR mix is
  reciprocally mixed by linearly increasing the drive pressure of DL7 from 0 psig to 15 psig
  over 15 seconds, and then from 15 psig to 0 psig over 15 seconds. Valve V12 (Figure 70, 49)
  is closed and drive line DL7 (Figure 70, 49) is deactivated
* Transfer into thermal cycling chamber. PCR reaction mix is pneumatically driven from the
  eluate metering chamber (Figure 70, 8) into the thermal cycling chambers (Figure 70, 62) by
  opening valves VII (Figure 70, 50), V13 (Figure 70, 52), and V14 (Figure 70, 53), and
  applying a sequentially increasing drive pressure sequence of 0.2 psig for 30 seconds, then
  0.4 psig for 30 sec, then 0.6 psig for 30 see to drive line DL7 (Figure 70, 49). Valves V12
  (Figure 70, 51) and V14 (Figure 70, 53) were closed, and DL7 (Figure 70, 49) is deactivated.
  The PCR reaction mix is transferred into the thermal cycling chambers and stops at the
  queuing vent membrane.
* Thermal cycle. A thirty-one cycle protocol is applied to cycle the reaction within the thermal
  cycling chambers (Figure 70, 62) to generate labeled amplicons. The cycling conditions are
  as follows: Hotstart 93 'C x 20 seconds followed by 31 cycles of (93 'C x 4 seconds, 56     OC
  x 15 seconds, and 70 oC x 7 seconds) followed by a final extension of 70 0 C x 90 seconds.
" Meter PCR product. PCR product is pneumatically driven from the thermal cycling chambers
  (Figure 70, 62) into the PCR metering chamber (Figure 71, 74) by opening valves VII
  (Figure 70, 50), V13 (Figure 70, 52) and V14 (Figure 70, 53) and V30 (Figure 71, 111), and
  applying a sequentially increasing drive pressure sequence of 0.2 psig for 30 seconds, then
  0.4 psig for 30 sec, then 0.6 psig for 45 sec drive line DL7 (Figure 70, 49). Valves VII
  (Figure 70, 50), V13 (Figure 70, 52), V14 (Figure 70, 53), and V30 (Figure 71, 111) were
  closed and DL7 (Figure 70, 49) is deactivated. The PCR product flows into the metering
  chamber and stops at a vent membrane.
* Meterformamide. Formamide is pneumatically driven from the formamide reagent chamber
  (Figure 71, 60) into the formamide metering chamber (Figure 71, 76) by applying a pressure

                                                 -77
  of 1 psig for 50 seconds to drive line DL8 (Figure 71, 75) . Drive line DL8 (Figure 71, 75) is
  deactivated. In this step, a      6 h  volume of formamide is metered (Figure 71, 77) for
  reconstituting a cake to generate a control sample. The formamide flows into the metering
  chamber and stops at a vent membrane. Excess formamide is pneumatically driven from the
  formamide chamber into a waste chamber by opening valve V15 (Figure 71, 54) and
  applying a pressure of 3 psig for 180 seconds to drive line DL8 (Figure 71, 75). Valve V15
  (Figure 71, 54) is closed and DL8 (Figure 71, 75) is deactivated. All of the excess fonnamide
  reagent chamber and drive line is transferred into the waste chamber.
* Join PCR product andformamide. Metered PCR product is pneumatically driven from the
  PCR metering chamber (Figure 71, 74) into the joining chamber (Figure 71, 78) by opening
  valve V18 (Figure 71, 57), V17 (Figure 71, 80) and V20 (Figure 71,81)            and applying a 4
  step drive profile of .0.2, 0.3, 0.4, and 0.5 psig for 30, 30, 30, and 30 sec respectively to drive
  line DL9 (Figure 71, 79). Valve V18 (Figure 71, 57), V17 (Figure 71, 80) and V20 (Figure
  71,81) were closed and DL9 (Figure 71, 79) is deactivated. Metered formamide is
  pneumatically driven from the formamide metering chamber (Figure 71, 76) into the joining
  chamber (Figure 71, 78) by V20 (Figure 71, 81) by applying an increasing pressure of 0.2,
  0.4 and 0.6 psig for 30, 30, and 60 seconds to drive line DL8 (Figure 71, 75). Valve V20
  (Figure 71, 81) is closed and DL8 (Figure 71, 75) is deactivated. The joining chamber allows
  the metered PCR and the metered formamide which originate from two independent flow to
  be combined to form the sample for separation and detection.
* Reconstitute ILS cake. The sample for separation and detection is pneumatically driven from
  the joining chamber (Figure 71, 78) into the ILS cake chambers (Figure 71, 635) and
  1LS+Control cake chamber (Figure 71, 682) by opening valves V20 (Figure 71, 81) and
  linearly increasing the drive pressure of DL8 (Figure 71, 75) from 0 to 15 psig over 15
  seconds. The air between the sample and the valve V21 (Figure 71, 86) is compressed
  allowing the sample to move within the chamber and come in contact with the lyophilized
  ILS cake. The cake is allowed to reconstitute by maintaining the pressure of DL8 (Figure 71,
  75) at 15 psig for 60 seconds. 11.5 microliters of metered sample is transferred to reconstitute
  the cake containing the lyophilized internal lane standard to generate the separation and
  detection sample.
e Reciprocally Mix the separationand detection solution - The PCR solution (i.e. ILS cake that
  is reconstituted with metered formamide and metered PCR product) is then moved from the
  ILS reconstitution and reciprocation chamber (Figure 71, 635) back to the joining chamber
  (Figure 71, 78) by linearly decreasing the pressure of drive line DL8 (Figure 71, 75) from 15

                                              -78
  psig to 0 psig over 15 seconds. The air between the eluate and valve V13 (Figure 71, 52) is
  compressed and will acts as an air spring to push against the separation and detection sample
  to mix moving it towards the formamide metering chamber (Figure 71, 76). The separation
  and detection sample is reciprocally mixed by linearly increasing the drive pressure of DL8
  (Figure 71, 75) from 0 psig to 15 psig over 15 seconds, and then from 15 psig to 0 psig over
  15 seconds. Drive line DL8 (Figure 71, 75) was deactivated.
* Inject samples into separation channel. The 5 separation and detection samples are
  pneumatically driven from the joining chamber (Figure 71, 78) and control sample from the
  formamide metering chamber (Figure 71, 76) through the ILS cake chamber (Figure 71, 635,
  and 682), which now acts as a debubbling chamber to fill the cathode chamber (Figure 71,
  84) and a sample waste chamber (Figure 71, 85) by opening valve V21 (Figure 71, 86) and
  V22 (Figure 71, 87) and applying a pressure to drive line DL9 (Figure 71, 79) with a
  sequentially stepped profile of 0.4, 0.6, 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 psig for 30, 30, 30, 30, and 30
  seconds respectively. Valves V21 (Figure 71, 86) and V22 (Figure 71, 87) are closed and
  DL8 (Figure 71, 74) is deactivated. The DNA within the sample is injected from the cathode
  chamber (Figure 71, 84) into the separation portion of the biochip (Figure 55 and Figure 56,
  88), by applying a voltage of 4400 V is applied to bias the cathode (Figure 55 and 56, 63)
  and anode (Figure 55 and 56, 64) for 35 seconds.
* Separate and detect DNA. TTE is pneumatically driven from the from the TTE reagent
  reservoir (Figure 71, 59) to fill the cathode (Figure 71, 84) and to fill TTE waste chambers
  (Figure 71, 92, 93, and 13) by opening valves V25 (Figure 71, 91), V24 (Figure 71, 90), V26
  (Figure 71, 95), V27 (Figure 71, 96), and V28 (Figure 71, 97) and applying a pressure to
  drive line DLIO (Figure 71,98) for 2 psig for 240 seconds. valves V25 (Figure 71, 91), V24
  (Figure 71, 90), V26 (Figure 71, 95), V27 (Figure 71, 96), and V28 (Figure 71, 97) were
  closed and DL1O (Figure 71, 98) is deactivated. The flow of TTE through the cathodes
  displaces the sample within the cathodes. DNA that is injected into the separation portion of
  the S&D biochip (Figure 55) travels injected down the separation portion of the biochip,
  when a 6400 V is applied to bias the cathode (Figure 55 and 56, 63) and anode (Figure 55
  and 56, 64) for 30 min. The optical system is also activated to effect laser induced
  fluorescence excitation and detection at the excitation and detection window. The laser is set
  to 200 mW and the data collection rate of 5 Hz is implemented. The fluorescent signal travels
  through the detection path to the photomultiplier tubes. There, the fluorescence is converted
  into a signal that is recorded by the system software.

                                                  -79
[0248] Electropherograms are generated for the samples and control following the scripted
process steps as outlined above. The entire process from insertion of samples to generation of the
electropherogram requires approximately 90 minutes. Many process steps can be shortened, and
the process can be performed in less than 45 minutes if desired. Figure 77 illustrates the
relationship of scripted processing steps and resultant processing steps for one portion of the
process. Eluate is pneumatically driven from the Eluate holding chamber (Figure 39, 25) to result
in a metered volume into the eluate metering chambers (Figure 39, 8) with the 10 step script of
Figure 77. The script steps consisting of 5 valve and drive line state changes to move eluates
from the holding chambers to the metering chambers. The next 5 script steps remove the excess
eluate and push this volume into the holding chamber. Accordingly, the 10 scripted processing
steps (increasing and decreasing pressures on valves and drive lines) correspond to two resultant
processing steps (the movement of sample from the eluate holding chamber to the eluate
metering chamber and the movement of excess sample back to the eluate holding chamber).
Example 7. Sample splitting to eliminate the need for nucleic acid quantitation
[0249] The amount of nucleic acids in a given sample, whether a forensic, clinical, or biothreat
sample, is highly variable. In certain nucleic acid manipulations, reaction conditions require a
particular range of input nucleic acid to be effective. In the laboratory, this problem is often
solved by performing a nucleic acid quantitation step prior to a given manipulation. Nucleic acid
quantitation has been developed for microfluidic applications as described in patent App. Ser.
No. 12/816,370 entitled "Improved Methods for Forensic DNA Quantitation," incorporated
herein by reference.
[0250] The instant invention provides another solution to the problem of requiring a certain
range of nucleic acids in a microfluidic biochip. This approach does not involve quantitation but
instead is based on diluting a given sample one or more times to provide 2 or more nucleic acid
concentrations for analysis, preferably in parallel. The invention is exemplified using touch
samples. Touch samples are forensic samples that consist of cells (primarily epithelial) that are
left on surfaces after exposure to the human body. They include fingerprints, skin cells found on
clothing (e.g. a shirt collar), and oral epithelial cells found on the opening of a soda can or the
rim of a drinking glass. The quantity of DNA that is recovered from touch DNA samples is
highly variable. Touch samples generally contain up to 100 ng of DNA, and most touch samples
contain from 0.5 - 10 ng DNA. Accordingly, the Touch Sample System will process swabs
containing 0.5 - 100 ng DNA.

                                                -80
[0251] Although it is likely that most touch samples will contain less than 10 ng of DNA, an
unknown touch sample must be processed with the expectation that the full 200-fold range of
DNA must be processed correctly. In a manual amplification system, amplifying 0.5 ng would be
reasonable but amplifying 100 ng would not. Accordingly, in manual systems, DNA purified
from touch samples is generally quantified prior to amplification. The microfluidic biochips of
the invention allow touch sample DNA to be processed without quantitation by splitting purified
DNA into two aliquots within the fluidic subassembly.         One aliquot of the eluted DNA is
amplified neat (assuming less than 10 ng DNA is present in the amplification mix) and the other
is diluted 20-fold (assuming 5-100 ng DNA is present in the reaction mix). Both the neat and
diluted aliquots are amplified and separated and detected independently but in parallel. The neat
sample allows effective amplification across a range of at least 0.05 - 10 ng of purified DNA,
and the diluted sample allows effective amplification across a range of at least 1 - 200 ng of
purified DNA; the entire range of DNA content that cab be assayed effectively extends over a
range of at least 40,000-fold.
[0252] Sample splitting microfluidics are incorporated into the biochips of Examples 5 and 6 as
follows. DNA is eluted in a volume of 20 microliters using the same DNA purification protocol.
At this volume, the eluate holding chamber is removed from the macrofluidic processing
subsystem, and a 20 microliter eluate holding chamber is placed on the fluidic plate of the fluidic
subassembly. On that plate, the 20 microliters of purified DNA is routed to parallel paths:
    *   In the neat path, 12 microliters of DNA is metered in a metering chamber, transferred to
        the PCR cake reconstitution chamber, and transferred to the PCR chambers for
        amplification. The chambers will be expanded slightly to accommodate approximately 10
        microliters of reconstituted reaction mix.
    *   In the dilution path, approximately 2 microliters of DNA is metered and joined with 38 pl
        of metered Elution Solution. The diluted solution is then transferred to the cake
        reconstitution chamber, and transferred to the PCR chambers for amplification.
    *   Following amplification, the two solutions are processed in parallel through separation
        and detection.
[0253] A flowchart of the sample splitting and dilution microfluidic circuit is shown in Figure
78. Optionally, the purified DNA sample can be split into more than two aliquots for subsequent
processing, and the diluted sample can be further diluted to generate additional aliquots for
processing. For touch samples, such dilution is not necessary, but certain forensic, clinical

                                                -81
diagnostic, and biothreat samples may contain much more DNA and their analysis facilitated by
the processing of three or more aliquots.
Example 8. Plastic background fluorescence
[0254] The separation and detection biochips are fabricated in thermoplastic. Thermoplastics
polymers when exposed to laser excitation autofluoresce to generate a background noise that is
detected and processed by the detection system. This autofluorescence degrades the signal-to
noise ratio of real signal peaks which raises the limit of detection of the system. Conventional
S&D biochips for separation and detection are fabricated in glass or quartz substrates which
exhibit less autofluorescence    per unit thickness compared to plastic substrates. Several
considerations must be made when performing laser induced fluorescence detection with plastic
substrates:
(1) Selecting a plastic material that exhibits low autofluorescence - Cyclin olefin copolymer
    (COC) and Cyclic olefin polymer (COP) thermoplastic material is used to fabricate the
    separation and detection biochips that are used in Examples 5 and 6. These thermoplastics
    exhibit inherently lower autofluorescence in the visible wavelength range as compared to
    other polymers.
(2) Reducing the thickness of plastic substrate that is excited by the laser - The thickness of the
    material used is limited by the ability of the structure to withstand the gel filling pressures
    which may exceed 350 psig. The biochips used in Examples 5 and 6 are fabricated by
    embossing channel features into a 188 micron thick thermoplastic sheet and then bonding
    another 188 micron thick thermoplastic sheet to cover the channels. An experiment to
    measure the background fluorescence on glass and plastic substrates was conducted by
    placing several substrates (plastic 188 nm, plastic 376 nm, borosilicate glass 0.7 nm, and
    borosilicate glass 1.4 nm) onto the separation and detection window of the Genebench optical
    detection instrument. (See generally, App. Ser. No. 12/080,745, published as 2009/0020427
    entitled "Plastic Microfluidic Separation and Detection Platforms,") 200 mW of laser
    excitation was applied to the substrate and signal was collected. Figure 79 shows the
    background fluorescence of low fluorescence plastic (188 microns and 376 microns thick)
    and borosilicate glass (0.7 mm and 1.4 mm thick). The data shows that the background
    fluorescence for thin films of plastic is 4 to 7 times lower than that of 0.7 mm and 1.4 mm
    thick borosilicate glass.
(3) Incorporating    a filter to reduce    background    emission -    Although the     background
    fluorescence is low in general, plastic does exhibit a high autofluorescence at approximately
    569 nm. This emission peak is a result of Raman fluorescence that is generated when plastic

                                                 -82
    is excited by a 488 nm laser. The spectra of the peak shows that it is centered about 569 nm
    and has a full width of 5 nm. The Raman fluorescence can be eliminated by using a notch
    filter with a center wavelength of approximately 570 nm and a rejection band between
    approximately 5 to 10 nm. An experiment to assess the improvement in signal to noise by
    using a notch filter to eliminate the Raman plastic fluorescence was conducted. A set of 3
     separation and detection runs was performed without a notch filter, and another set was
    performed with a notch filter installed at the input to the PMT box. Figure 80 summarizes the
    results of the data. The data shows that the filter reduces the peak-to-peak noise for the
    yellow channel from 67 to 39 relative fluorescence units (rfu). The filter also reduces the
    absolute signal strengths from 1520 to 1236 rfu, with an overall improvement in the signal to
    noise ratio from 23 to 32. A notch filter is useful in the optical systems of both integrated and
    unintegrated instruments in settings where the limit of detection is particularly important (e.g.
    the analysis of forensic touch samples and the diagnosis of infectious agents early in the
    course of a given disease when pathogen numbers are low).
Example 9 Design of a fully integrated biochip that purifies nucleic acids from clinical
whole blood samples, amplifies the purified DNA, Sanger sequences the amplified DNA,
ultrafilters the sequenced DNA, and electrophoretically separates the ultrafiltered DNA
and generates multiplexed DNA sequence using an automated script.
[0255] Pathogens such as staphylococci, streptococci, and Yersinia enterocolitica may be
present in the extracellular components of the blood. A stationary, unitary plastic biochip that
accepts 2 blood samples and generates DNA sequence from 8 loci of a given pathogen consists
of a pneumatic-valve-fluidic stack, macrofluidic processing subassembly, and separation and
detection subassembly. The biochip resembles the injection molded biochip of Example 6 with
modifications as described below, and, based on an automated script, the process is conducted as
follows:
[0256] The macrofluidic subassembly is composed of 12 chambers that hold preloaded reagents
or serve as holding/reaction chambers during the DNA purification process. One chamber is used
to accept the blood collection tube; six chambers are pre-filled with 3 mL of wash solution, 100
microliters of cell resuspension solution, 450 microliters of lysis solution, 550 microliters of
absolute ethanol, 2 microliters of wash buffer, 2000 microliters of deionized water and 400
microliters of elution buffer.
[0257] The biochipset accepts a standard 3 cc vacutainer tube (for separation experiments, blood
is collected in tubes containing appropriate anticoagulants). The blood collection tube is inserted

                                                 -83
into the biochip with the rubber stoppered end down. The purification process is initiated when
the user presses a start button on the instrument. Within the instrument, the blood collection tube
is pushed onto two hollow pins located at the base of blood collection tube cavity.      The hollow
pins pierce through the rubber stopper, and the blood collection tube is pressurized
pneumatically to 5 psi to drive the blood from the blood collection tube through a through a filter
with nominal pore size of 8 microns (such as Leukosorb B media, Pall Corporation, Port
Washington, NY) to remove leukocytes from the blood. The flowthrough is passed through a
through a single layer of 0.2 micron polycarbonate track-etch membrane (SPI-PoreTM Track-Etch
Membrane, Structure Probe, Inc., West Chester, PA) to concentrate the bacteria through capture
on the membrane, and this flowthrough is routed to a waste chamber.
[0258] Resuspension solution (100 microliters) is applied to the surface of the track-etch
membrane, resuspending the pathogens retained on the track etch membrane, and generating a
concentrated pathogen suspension (which may also include residual leukocytes). This suspension
is pneumatically driven into the lysis chamber. DNA purification is performed as described as in
Examples 5 and 6, with all volumes proportionately lower. Chaotropic lysis reagent is driven
into the lysis chamber, and air is pneumatically driven into the lysis/waste chamber to effect
chaotic bubbling of the lysate. Ethanol from the ethanol reservoir is driven into the lysis/waste
and mixed by chaotic bubbling. The lysate/ethanol mixture is pneumatically driven into the
holding chamber and through the purification membrane and into the lysis/waste chamber. The
membrane is subjected to a series of three washes, removing unbound material and residual lysis
solution. The filter is then air-dried. 20.5 microliters of elution solution is pneumatically driven
from the elution solution reservoir through the purification membrane to the eluate holding
chamber. This smaller volume ensures that a large proportion of the isolated nucleic acids are
amplified in the subsequent amplification reaction.
[0259] Eluate is pneumatically driven from the eluate holding chamber into the eluate metering
chambers, and excess eluate is pneumatically driven back into the eluate holding chamber. The
eluate is pneumatically driven from the eluate metering chamber into the PCR cake chamber.
20.5 microliters of metered eluate is transferred to reconstitute the cake containing the
lyophilized PCR reaction mix to generate the PCR mix for amplification. The cake contains the
same components as those of Figures 5 and 6, with the exception that the human STR primer
pairs (one of each pair is fluorescently labeled) are replaced with a set of 80 primer pairs (neither
member of each pair is labeled). The 80 primer pairs represent 8 specific loci for each of 10
pathogens, including staphylococci, streptococci, and Yersinia enterocolitica (much larger sets of
loci are possible if desired). The reconstituted PCR reaction mix is pneumatically driven from

                                                  -84
the cake chambers into the thermal cycling chambers and stops at the queuing vent membrane. A
thirty-one cycle amplification protocol is applied to cycle the reaction within the thermal cycling
chamber. All scripted and process steps are performed essentially as described as in Examples 5
and 6.
 [0260] PCR product is pneumatically driven from the thermal cycling chambers into the PCR
metering chamber and stops at a vent membrane. Six microliters of the PCR product are mixed
with 94 microliters of deionized water in a joining chamber. The joining chamber allows the
metered PCR and the metered water (which originate from two independent flows) to be
combined to form the sample for reconstitution of the lyophilized sequencing cake. The diluted
PCR product is driven from the joining chamber and split into 8 metering chambers, each of
which holds 11 microliters and are queued by a vent membrane. Each of the eight samples is
driven to a sequencing cake reconstitution chamber. The eight cakes are slightly different
versions of the Sanger reaction mix (based on the use of dye-labeled terminators, such that each
extension product bears a single fluorescent label corresponding to the base at that position of the
 sequence), with each cake containing a unique set of ten sequencing primers-one for a locus for
each of the ten pathogens of interest. For a given pathogen, one primer pair for a specific locus is
 in cake one, a second in cake two, etc.; this placement ensures a single DNA sequence is
generate for a given pathogen from each cake. The reconstituted sequencing reaction mixes are
pneumatically driven from the cake chambers into the cycle sequence cycling chambers (located
just above the second thermal cycler) and stop at the queuing vent membrane; each cycling
chamber holds 10 microliters. Cycle sequencing is performed as follows: 95 'C for 15 seconds
 followed by 30 cycles of [95 'C for 5 seconds, 50 'C for 10 seconds, and 60 'C for 25 seconds).
For each of eight sequencing reactions (now a total of 16 for two blood samples), the 10
microliter sequencing reaction product is mixed with 100 microliters of deionized water in a
joining chamber in preparation for ultrafiltration.
 [0261] Electrophoretic separation performance can be greatly improved by purification of the
 sequencing product to remove ions necessary for sequencing (and the preceding PCR reaction)
that interfere with the separation. A variety of methods can be employed, including
 ultrafiltration, in that small ions/primers/unincorporated dye labels are driven through a filter,
 leaving the desired product on the filter that then can be eluted and applied directly to separation
and detection. Ultrafiltration media include polyethersulfone and regenerated cellulose "woven"
 filters, as well as track-etch membranes, in which pores of highly-uniform size are formed in an
extremely thin (1-10 tm) membrane.        The latter have the advantage of collecting product of size

                                                 -85
 larger than the pore size on the surface of the filter, rather than capturing the product at some
depth below the surface.
 [0262] Accordingly, the diluted sequencing product was driven through ultrafiltration filter. The
 filter traps Sanger sequencing product but allows ions and the diluted sequencing buffers to pass
through. The material on the filter was washed by pneumatically driving 200 pl of deionized
water through the filter to further remove ions and buffer. Finally the cleaned Sanger sequencing
product was eluted from the filter by pneumatically driving 10 pl of deionized water into the
 filter chamber to resuspend the Sanger sequencing product. The eluate is then pneumatically
driven into the joining chamber. Formamide is pneumatically driven from the formamide reagent
chamber into the fornamide metering chamber. The formamide flows into the metering chamber
and stops at a vent membrane. Excess formamide is pneumatically driven from the formamide
chamber into a waste chamber. Ten microliters of metered ultrafiltered product is pneumatically
driven from the metering chamber into the joining chamber. Metered formamide was
pneumatically driven from the formamide metering chamber into the joining chamber. The
joining chamber allows the metered ultrafiltered product and the metered formamide (which
originate from two independent flows) to be combined to form the sample for separation and
detection. Electrophoresis is conducted as described in Examples 5 and 6 with the exception that
the biochip is heated to 60 C. The injection voltages and times, and separation voltages and
times are identical to that of Examples 5 and 6. The two blood samples are processed such that
they generate 16 channels of product for separation and detection. In general, the number of
 separation channels per sample is equivalent to the largest number of loci and primer pairs being
 interrogated for one of the pathogens under evaluation.
 [0263] The optical system is activated to effect laser induced fluorescence excitation and
detection. The laser is set to 200 mW and the data collection rate of 5 Hz is implemented.
Following color correction, an automated basecaller generates sequence from lanes that contain
one of the ten pathogens for which amplification and sequencing primers were incorporated in
the amplification and sequencing cakes, respectively. Approximately 500 bp of sequenced are
generated per lane.
 [0264] The biochip can be modified in many ways, based on the clinical sample type and the
pathogens to be identified.      For example, certain bacteria such as Francisella tularenis and
Chlamydia trachomastis spend a significant portion of their life cycles within mammalian cells.
 Some are obligate intracellular organisms and others are optionally intracellular. The DNA
purification process for such intracellular bacteria in blood is similar to that described above with

                                                   -86
a major exception.     Following application of whole blood on and through the cell separation
filter, the leukocytes trapped by the filter contain the DNA of interest. The filter is washed,
resuspended in 100 microliters, and subjected to guanidinium-based purification as described in
Example I with corresponding reduction is reagent volume.
[0265] If desired, the apparatus can be design to initially lyse the leukocytes (osmotically, for
example), taking advantage of the relative ease of lysis of mammalian cells as compared to
bacteria. In this setting, the intact intracellular bacteria are released, and the cell extract is based
through a bacterial capture filter and washed. Bacterial DNA is then purified as described in
above.     Similarly, whole blood can be lysed in the absence of cell separation, allowing
extracellular or intracellular bacterial or viral DNA to be purified.
[0266] Although several embodiments of the invention have been described, it will be apparent
to a person skilled in the art that various modifications to the details thereof shown and described
may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

                                                 -87
What is claimed is:
1.      A biochip, which upon insertion into an electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic,
thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and a process controller, generates a nucleic acid
sequencing or sizing profile from at least one sample, said biochip comprising:
        a macro fluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample;
        the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport
channel and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
        the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising, a pneumatic plate and
one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process
controller;
        a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising a separation channel, and further comprising a detection region
positioned to send signals from each of said channels to said optical subsystem on said
instrument;
        wherein the biochip is plastic, stationary, and unitary, and a footprint of the fluidic and/or
pneumatic plates is about 86 mm by 128 mm or greater.
2.      The biochip of Claim 1, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
about 100 x 150 mm or greater.
3.      The biochip of Claim 2, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
about 115 x 275 mm or greater.
4.      The biochip of Claim 3, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
about 140 x 275 or greater.
5.      The biochip of Claim 4, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
165 x 295 or greater.

                                                  -88
6.       A biochip, which upon insertion into an electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic,
thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and a process controller, generates a nucleic acid
sequencing or sizing profile from at least one sample, said biochip comprising:
         a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample;
         the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport
channel and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
         the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising, a pneumatic plate and
one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process
controller;
         a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising a separation channel, and further comprising a detection region
positioned to send signals from each of said channels to said optical subsystem on said
instrument;
         wherein the biochip is plastic, stationary, and unitary, and a footprint of the fluidic and/or
pneumatic plates is is less than 10,920.0 mm2 and does not conform to SBS standards.
7.       A biochip, which upon insertion into an electrophoresis instrument having pneumatic,
thermal, high voltage, and optical subsystems, and a process controller, generates a nucleic acid
sequencing or sizing profile from at least one sample, said biochip comprising:
         a macrofluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one macrofluidic feature located therein or thereon,
further comprising a chamber capable of receiving a sample;
         the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate, and at least one feature located
therein or thereon, the fluidic subassembly further comprising at least one fluid transport channel
and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
         the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising, a pneumatic plate and
at least one feature located therein or thereon, the pneumatic subassembly further comprising one
or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process
controller;

                                                 -89
        a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising at least one feature located therein or thereon, the separation and
detection subassembly further comprising a separation channel and a detection region positioned
to send signals from each of said channels to said optical subsystem on said instrument;
        wherein the biochip is plastic, stationary, and unitary, and a physical state of said one or
more features of the fluidic, pneumatic, and/or separation and detection subassemblies are
adapted to change in scripted processes of 25 or more steps.
8.      Biochip of claim 7, wherein the number of steps is 50 or more.
9.      Biochip of claim 8, wherein the number of steps is 100 or more.
10.     Biochip of claim 9, wherein the number of steps is 200 or more.
11.     Biochip of claim 7, wherein the 25 or more scripted process steps results in two or more
resultant processing steps.
12.     A unitary, stationary biochip, which upon insertion into an electrophoresis instrument
having pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical subsystems, and a process controller,
generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from at least one sample, said biochip
comprising:
        a macro fluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample;
        the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate having a top and bottom patterned
thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, to form at least one fluid transport channel on each sides of
the plate and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
        the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising a pneumatic plate
having a top patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, and one or a plurality of drive lines to
        pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process controller;
        a valve subassembly, positioned between and connected to said fluidic and pneumatic
subassemblies; and
        a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising at least one separation channel, and further comprising a detection

                                              -90
region positioned to send signals from each of said at least one separation channels to said
optical subsystem on said instrument.
13.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein the separation and detection subassembly is plastic.
14.     The biochip of claim 12, in which the macrofluidic, pneumatic, fluidic, and separation
and detection subsystems are plastic.
15.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein the valve subassembly comprises at least one
elastomeric valve.
16.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein the valve subassembly comprises at least one non
elastomeric valve.
17.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein the separation and detection subassembly is oriented
such that electrophoresis of the sample within the separation and detection subassembly is
conducted in the opposite direction from a general flow of sample through the fluidic plate.
18.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein all reagents needed to process the at least one sample
are contained within the biochip.
19.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein a footprint of the fluidic plate and/or the pneumatic
plate is about 86 mm x 128 mm or greater.
20.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein a footprint of the fluidic plate and/or the pneumatic
plate is about 100 mm x 150 mm or greater.
21.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein a footprint of the fluidic plate and/or the pneumatic
plate is about 115 mm x 275 mm or greater.
22.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein a footprint of the fluidic plate and/or the pneumatic
plate is about 140 mm x 275 mm or greater.
23.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein a footprint of the fluidic plate and/or the pneumatic
plate is about 165 mm x 295 mm or greater.
24.     The biochip of claim 12, wherein a footprint of the biochip is less than about 10,920.0
mm2 and does not conform to SBS standards.

                                                 -91
25.      A system for processing a biological sample, the system comprising:
         a biochip and a process controller, the biochip, which upon insertion into an
         electrophoresis  instrument having pneumatic,        thermal, high voltage      and optical
subsystems, and the process controller, generates a nucleic acid sequencing or sizing profile from
at least one sample, the biochip comprising:
         a macro fluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample;
         the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate having a top and bottom patterned
thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, to form at least one fluid transport channel on each sides of
the plate and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
         the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising a pneumatic plate
having a top patterned thermoplastic sheet bonded thereon, and one or a plurality of drive lines to
pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process controller;
         a valve subassembly, positioned between and connected to said fluidic and pneumatic
subassemblies; and
         a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising at least one separation channel, and further comprising a detection
region positioned to send signals from each of said at least one separation channels to said
optical subsystem on said instrument; and
         wherein the process controller of the instrument includes instructions to perform 25 or
more automated scripted process steps.
26.      The system of claim 25, wherein the scripted process steps result in 2 or more resultant
processing steps.
27.      A method of manufacturing a biochip, said method comprising:
         injection molding a fluidic plate to include a fluidic top surface, a fluidic bottom surface
and at least one through hole extending from the fluidic top surface to the fluidic bottom surface
to connect the fluidic top surface to the bottom surface, each of the fluidic top and bottom
surfaces comprise a plurality of microfluidic features;
         injection molding a pneumatic plate to include a pneumatic top surface, a pneumatic
bottom surface and at least one through hole extending from the pneumatic top surface to the

                                                -92
pneumatic bottom surface to connect the pneumatic top surface to the bottom surface, each of the
pneumatic top and bottom surfaces comprise a plurality of microfluidic features;
        aligning the pneumatic and fluidic plates;
        wherein a footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is 86 mm by 128 mm or
greater, and at least one of the plurality of microfluidic features of the fluidic plate and/or the
pneumatic plate comprises a draft angle of less than 2 degrees.
28.     The method of claim 27, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
100 mm x 150 mm or greater.
29.     The method of claim 28, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
115 mm x 275 mm or greater.
30.     The method of claim 29, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
140 mm x 275 mm or greater.
31.     The method of claim 30, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
165 mm x 295 mm or greater.
32.     The method of claim 27, wherein a footprint of said biochip is less than 10,920.0 mm
squared, and does not conform to SBS standards.
33.     A biochip made by the method of claim 27.
34.     The biochip of claim 33, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
100 mm x 150 mm or greater.
35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
115 mm x 275 mm or greater.
36.     The method of claim 35, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
140 mm x 275 mm or greater.
37.     The method of claim 36, wherein the footprint of the fluidic and/or pneumatic plates is
165 mm x 295 mm or greater.
38.     The method of claim 33, wherein a footprint of said biochip is less than 10,920.0 mm
squared, and does not conform to SBS standards.

                                                 -93
39.      A method of performing sample-in to results out automated electrophoresis on at least
one unprocessed sample in a unitary biochip having a macrofluidic processing subassembly in
fluid communication with a fluidic subassembly and a pneumatic subassembly, the method
comprising:
         inserting the at least one unprocessed sample into a chamber in the macrofluidic
processing subassembly;
         inserting the biochip into an instrument having a pneumatic subsystem, a thermal
subsystem, a high voltage subsystem, an optical system, and a process controller that can accept
a predefined process script and implement the process script automatically by reading the
process script and controlling the pneumatic subsystem, a thermal subsystem, a high voltage
subsystem, and optical system;
         activating the process controller to carry out the process script, the process script
including instructions to:
         initialize the biochip by applying pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to valve lines of
the pneumatic subassembly or in fluid communication with the pneumatic subassembly;
         purify DNA from the unprocessed sample by applying pressure from the pneumatic
subsystem to the macrofluidic processing subassembly to release reagents stored therein,
applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the released reagents to form a cell lysate
from the unprocessed sample, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to pull the
lysate through a purification filter in the fluidics subassembly into a holding chamber to bind
DNA in the lysate to the filter, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to release a
wash solution stored in the macrofluidic processing subassembly to flow through the purification
filter to remove contaminants from the bound DNA; applying a pressure to flow air through the
purification filter to dry the bound DNA, applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to
release an elution solution stored in the macrofluidics processing subassembly to release the
bound DNA from the purification filter, generating an eluate containing purified DNA;
         transport the eluate to a reconstitution chamber containing a lyophilized PCR reaction
mix by applying pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly;
         transport the reconstituted PCR reaction mix to a thermal cycling chamber in the fluidics
subassembly;
         apply heat to the thermal cycling chamber by initiating a thermal cycle protocol to
generate labeled amplicons from the PCR mixture;
         transport the labeled amplicons and a formamide reagent stored in the macrofluidic
processing subassembly to a joining chamber in the fluidics subassembly by applying pressure

                                                 -94
from the pneumatics subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly; the labeled aiplicons and
formamide reagent forming a formamide-PCR product mixture;
        transport the formamide-PCR product mixture by applying a pressure from the pneumatic
system to the pneumatic subassembly to flow the mixture to an ILS cake chamber for mixing
with an ILS cake to generate a separation and detection sample;
        transport the separation and detection sample into a cathode chamber within the fluidics
subassembly by applying a pressure from the pneumatic subsystem to the pneumatic
        subassembly;
        prepare cathode and anode of the fluidics subassembly for separation of the separation
and detection by applying a voltage from the high voltage subsystem to bias the cathode and
anode;
        transport gel from a gel reagent reservoir in the fluidics subassembly to a cathode
chamber and waste chamber of the fluidics subassembly by application of pressure from the
pneumatics subsystem to the pneumatic subassembly;
        inject and separate the separation and detection sample in the separation channel by
applying a voltage through the high voltage subsystem to a cathode and anode; and
        effect fluorescence of separated components of the separation and detection sample by
activating a laser in the optical subsystem; and
        automatically detecting a fluorescent signal of the separated components to provide
separation and detection sample results from at least one unprocessed samples.
40.     A system for providing at least two types of sample-in to results-out processing for at
least one biological sample, the system comprising a stationary biochip and an instrument
including pneumatic, thermal, high voltage and optical subsystems for interfacing with the
biochip, and a process controller, said stationary biochip comprising:
        a macro fluidic processing subassembly in connection with a fluidic subassembly and a
pneumatic subassembly, comprising at least one chamber adapted to receive a sample;
        the fluidic subassembly, comprising a fluidic plate, and at least one fluid transport
channel and an amplification chamber adapted to connecting to the thermal subsystem;
        the pneumatic subassembly which is adapted to connecting to the pneumatic subsystem
of said instrument, and to the subassemblies of said biochip, comprising, a pneumatic plate and
one or a plurality of drive lines to pneumatically drive fluids on instructions from said process
controller;

                                                  -95
         a separation and detection subassembly adapted for connecting to the high voltage and
optical subsystems and process controller on said instrument, said separation and detection
subassembly comprising a separation channel, and further comprising a detection region
positioned to send signals from each of said channels to said optical subsystem on said
instrument;
         the biochip further comprising at least two distinct pathways for sample processing, each
of the at least two distinct pathways being dedicated to different analytical processes; and
         wherein the process controller of the instrument including a set of instructions to process
the at least one biological sample in the different analytical processes.
41.      The system of claim 40, wherein the stationary biochip is formed of plastic.
42.      The system of claim 40, wherein the different analytical processes are STR analysis and
single nucleotide polymorphism analysis.
43.      The system of claim 40, wherein the different analytical processes are multiplexed
amplification and DNA sequencing.
44.      The system of claim 40, wherein the different analytical processes are STR analysis and
mitochondrial DNA sequencing.
45.      The system of claim 40, wherein the different analytical processes are reverse
transcription PCR and conventional PCR.
46.      The system of claim 40, wherein the different analytical processes are DNA sequencing
and single nucleotide polymorphism analysis.
47.      A reagent storage container for a biochip comprising a macro fluidic block and cover, the
macro fluidic block comprising:
         a reagent storage chamber having a top end and a bottom end;
         a first foil seal bonded to the bottom end;
         a second foil seal bonded to the top end;
         wherein a reagent is stored in the foil-sealed chamber and is released by the application
of pneumatic pressure through the cover such that the top and bottom foils burst, releasing the
contents of the reagent storage chamber.
48.      The container of claim 47, wherein one or both of the foil seals are scored.

                                               -96
49.    The container of claim 48 connected to a fluidic subassembly.
50.    The container of claim 49, further comprising providing a spacer plate placed between
the container and the fluidic subassembly such that the spacer plate is sized to accommodate
expansion of the first foil prior to bursting.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
