                                    ABSTRACT
Methods and composition of induction of pluripotent stem cells are disclosed. For
example, in certain aspects methods for generating induced pluripotent stem cells
using reporter genes are described. Furthermore, the invention provides novel
reprogramming vectors employing reporter genes.

                        METHODS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF IPS CELLS
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Application No. 61/088,054 filed on
August 12, 2008, and is a divisional application of AU 2009282133, the entire disclosures of
which are specifically incorporated herein by reference in their entirety without disclaimer.
           1.     Field of the Invention
           [0002] The present invention relates generally to the field of stem cells. More
particularly, it concerns reprogramming of somatic cells.
           2.     Description of Related Art
           [0003] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that such art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.          In general, stem cells are undifferentiated cells
which can give rise to a succession of mature functional cells. For example, a hematopoietic
stem cell may give rise to any of the different types of terminally differentiated blood cells.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells are derived from the embryo and are pluripotent, thus possessing
the capability of developing into any organ or tissue type or, at least potentially, into a
complete embryo.
           [0004] Induced pluripotent stem cells, commonly abbreviated as iPS cells or iPSCs,
are a type of pluripotent stem cells artificially derived from non-pluripotent cells, typically
adult somatic cells, by inserting certain genes. Induced pluripotent stem cells are believed to
be identical to natural pluripotent stem cells, such as embryonic stem cells in many respects,
for example, in the expression of certain stem cell genes and proteins, chromatin methylation
patterns, doubling time, embiyoid body formation, teratoma formation, viable chimera
formation, and potency and differentiability, but the full extent of their relation to natural
pluripotent stem cells is still being assessed.
           [00051 IPS cells were first produced in 2006 (Takahashi et al., 2006) from mouse
cells and in 2007 from human cells (Takahashi et al., 2007; Yu et al, 2007). This has been
cited as an important advancement in stem cell research, as it may allow researchers to obtain
pluripotent stem cells, which are important in research and potentially have therapeutic uses,
without the controversial use of embryos.
85190658.1                                        -1-

     WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
         [0006] However, at this stage in the study of these induced pluripotent stem (iPS)
cells, the efficiency of generating iPS cells is low, which hurdles the applicability of iPS cells
in clinical studies. Therefore, there is a need to develop a method to enhance the efficiency of
producing induced pluripotent stem cells.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0007] The present invention overcomes a major deficiency in the art in providing
induced pluripotent stem cells with improved efficiency. In a first embodiment there is
provided a method for producing an induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell population, the
method comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining one or more reprogramming vectors, each of
the vector comprising an expression cassette comprising: (i) a transcriptional regulatory
element; (ii) a first nucleotide sequence operably linked to the transcriptional regulatory
element, wherein the first nucleotide sequence encodes a reprogramming factor or a reporter;
(iii) an IRES, which is located 3' to the first nucleotide sequence; and (iv) a second nucleotide
sequence encoding a reprogramming factor or a reporter, located 3' to said IRES such that the
second nucleotide sequence is under translational control of the IRES, wherein: (1) the
second nucleotide sequence encodes another reprogramming factor or a reporter if the first
nucleic acid encodes a reprogramming factor; and (2) the second nucleotide sequence
encodes a reprogramming factor if the first nucleic acid encodes a reporter; (b) introducing
the reprogramming vectors into cells of a population of somatic cells; (c) culturing the cells
to expand the population; (d) selecting progeny cells of said expanded population, wherein
said progeny has one or more characteristics of embryonic stem cells; and (e) culturing the
selected progeny cells to provide the iPS cell population.
         [0008] In certain aspects, the first nucleotide sequence encodes a reprogramming
factor and the second nucleotide sequence encodes a reporter or vice versa, therefore
simultaneous expression of reporter genes aids in the selection of reprogrammed cells as
described below.
         [0009] To coexpress multiple reprogramming factors under the same transcriptional
regulatory element, the expression cassette may comprise a second IRES and a third
nucleotide sequence located 3' to the second IRES such that the third nucleotide sequence is
                                                  -2-

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
under translational control of the second IRES. In certain embodiments, the first and second
nucleotide sequence may encode different reprogramming factors. In any of the above
scenarios, a reporter may be encoded by the first, second or third nucleotide sequence for
improving transfection and iPS cell selection efficiency.
        [0010] The power of this invention partly relies on the expression of reporters, such
as fluorescent proteins, which serve as indicators for infection efficiency, correlates generally
with the levels of expression from the reprogramming genes on the same polycistronic
transcript, and are silenced once cells have become fully induced to pluripotency.            For
example, the step c) of the above methods may further comprise selecting a population of
somatic cells, wherein the somatic cells express the reporter, and culturing the selected cells
to expand the population. Therefore, in certain aspects, it is possible to select cells that have
been infected least to most efficiently based on the level of expression of the reporter, e.g.,
fluorescent protein using fluorescence-assisted cell sorting (FACs).
        [0011] In exemplary embodiments, the reporter may be a cell surface marker, a
fluorescent protein, an epitope, chloramphenicol acetyl transferase (CAT), luciferase or 0
galactosidase. For instance, the fluorescent protein could be a green fluorescent protein
(GFP), red fluorescent protein (RFP), blue fluorescent protein (BFP) or yellow fluorescent
protein (YFP), or a variant thereof. Depending on the reporter used, the selection in the step
c) may comprise fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), CAT assay, luminescence assay
or any methods known for an ordinary person in the art to detect or screen for reporter
expression,   in order to select      for efficiently transfected     cells. An alternative    or
complementary approach is to test the absence of exogenous reporter transcripts in progeny
cells, using conventional methods, such as RT-PCR, in situ hybridization, RNA array, or
hybridization (e.g., Northern blot).
        [0012] In a further embodiment of the invention, the iPS reprogramming factors
encoded by any of the nucleotide sequences comprised in the one or more reprogramming
vectors may comprise at least one member from Sox family and at least one member from
Oct family. Sox and Oct are thought to be central to the transcriptional regulatory hierarchy
that specifies ES cell identity. For example, Sox may be Sox-1, Sox-2, Sox-3, Sox-15, or
Sox-18; Oct may be Oct-4. Additional factors may increase the reprogramming efficiency,
                                                -3-

    WO 2010/019569                                                     PCT/US2009/053403
like Nanog, Lin28, Klf4, or c-Myc; specific sets of reprogramming factors may be a set
comprising Sox-2, Oct-4, Nanog and, optionally, Lin-28; or comprising Sox-2, Oct4, Klf
and, optionally, c-Myc.
        [0013] In a still further embodiment, the vector may be a viral vector, more
specifically, a retroviral vector, such as murine leukemia virus (MLV), Moloney murine
leukemia virus (MMLV), Akv-MLV, SL-3-3-MLV or another closely related virus. The viral
vector could also be a lentiviral vector. In certain aspects, the transcriptional regulatory
element may comprise a long terminal repeat region (LTR) to mediate integration of viral
genes.
        [0014] In certain embodiments, a polycistronic transcript may be used by employing
one or more internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs).          Exemplary IRES may be an
encephalomyocarditis virus IRES, a picornavirus IRES, a foot-and-mouth disease virus IRES,
a hepatitis A virus IRES, a hepatitis C virus IRES, a human rhinovirus IRES, a poliovirus
IRES, a swine vesicular disease virus IRES, a turnip mosaic potyvirus IRES, a human
fibroblast growth factor 2 mRNA IRES, a pestivirus IRES, a Leishmania RNA virus IRES, a
Moloney murine leukemia virus IRES a human rhinovirus 14 IRES, an aphthovirus IRES, a
human    immunoglobulin     heavy    chain binding protein   mRNA     IRES,   a Drosophila
Antennapedia mRNA IRES, a human fibroblast growth factor 2 mRNA IRES, a hepatitis G
virus IRES, a tobamovirus IRES, a vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA IRES, a
Coxsackie B group virus IRES, a c-myc protooncogene mRNA IRES, a human MYT2
mRNA IRES, a human parechovirus type 1 virus IRES, a human parechovirus type 2 virus
IRES, a eukaryotic initiation factor 4GI mRNA IRES, a Plautia stali intestine virus IRES, a
Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus IRES, a bovine enterovirus IRES, a connexin 43
mRNA IRES, a homeodomain protein Gtx mRNA IRES, an AMLI transcription factor
mRNA IRES, an NF-kappa B repressing factor mRNA IRES, an X-linked inhibitor of
apoptosis mRNA IRES, a cricket paralysis virus RNA IRES, a p58 (PITSLRE) protein kinase
mRNA IRES, an ornithine decarboxylase mRNA IRES, a connexin-32 mRNA IRES, a
bovine viral diarrhea virus IRES, an insulin-like growth factor I receptor mRNA IRES, a
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 gag gene IRES, a classical swine fever virus IRES, a
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus IRES, a short IRES selected from a library of
random oligonucleotides, a Jembrana disease virus IRES, an apoptotic protease-activating
                                              -4-

    WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
factor 1 mRNA IRES, a Rhopalosiphum padi virus IRES, a cationic amino acid transporter
mRNA IRES, a human insulin-like growth factor II leader 2 mRNA IRES, a giardiavirus
IRES, a Smad5 mRNA IRES, a porcine teschovirus-1 talfan IRES, a Drosophila Hairless
mRNA IRES, an hSNM1 mRNA IRES, a Cbfal/Runx2 mRNA IRES, an Epstein-Barr virus
IRES, a hibiscus chlorotic ringspot virus IRES, a rat pituitary vasopressin Vib receptor
mRNA IRES, a human hsp70 mRNA IRES, or a variant thereof                  In particular, the IRES
element may be an encephalomyocarditis virus IRES.
        [0015] In a further embodiment, the reprogramming vector may be introduced by
liposome transfection, electroporation, particle bombardment, calcium phosphate, polycation,
or polyanion, or any methods suitable for introducing exogenous genetics elements into the
cells.
        [0016] In still further aspects of the invention, the somatic cells may be from
mammals, or more specifically, humans. The somatic cells may be terminally differentiated
cells, or tissue stem cells, including, but not limited to, fibroblasts, hematopoietic cells, or
mesenchymal cells. For example, the somatic cells are fibroblasts. The somatic cells may be
from a tissue cell bank or from a selected human subject, specifically, a live human.
Genomes from progeny of these somatic cells will be considered to be derived from these
somatic cells of a certain source, such as a selected human individual.
        [0017] In a certain aspect, the progeny cells could be selected for an essential loss of
expression of the reporter, an undifferentiated morphology, an embryonic stem cell-specific
marker or pluripotency or multi-lineage differentiation potential or any characteristics known
in the art, or a combination thereof. This selection step may be employed at one or more time
points after transfection to ensure that cells are in a pluripotent state and does not return to a
differentiated state. Therefore, the selection step may be at a time after the progeny cells enter
a self-sustaining pluripotent state, such as at least about 10 days to at least 30 days after the
reprogramming vectors are introduced into cells.
        [0018] Specifically, the progeny cells may be selected for an undifferentiated
morphology because of its convenience. The embryonic stem cell-specific marker could be
                                                  -5-

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
one or more specific markers selected from the group consisting of SSEA-3, SSEA-4, Tra-1
60 or Tra-1-81, Tra-2-49/6E, GDF3, REXI, FGF4, ESGI, DPPA2, DPPA4, and hTERT.
         [0019] In a particular aspect, the progeny cells may be selected for iPS cells based on
essentially no expression of introduced reporter genes because a reprogrammed cells is able
to silence exogenously introduced material as a cell has become pluripotent. Therefore, an
essential loss of reporter expression, e.g., fluorescence, is an indication in addition to
morphological characteristics that cell have been reprogrammed. Such a characteristic may be
selected by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), CAT assay or luminescence assay
based on the reporter gene introduced. "Essentially loss" of reporter gene expression means
that less than 1%, 0.5%, 0.1%, 0.05% or any intermediate percentage of cells of an iPS cell
population comprises exogenous reporter expression.
         [0020] In a further aspect, a reprogramming vector is also disclosed as comprising an
expression cassette comprising: (a) a transcriptional regulatory element; (b) a first nucleotide
sequence operably linked to the transcriptional regulatory element, wherein the first
nucleotide sequence encodes a reprogramming factor or a reporter; c) an IRES, which is
located 3' to the first nucleotide sequence; and (d) a second nucleotide sequence encoding a
reprogramming factor or a reporter, located 3' to the IRES such that the second nucleotide
sequence is under translational control of the IRES, wherein: (i) the second nucleotide
sequence encodes another reprogramming factor or a reporter if the first nucleic acid encodes
a reprogramming factor; and (ii) the second nucleotide sequence encodes a reprogramming
factor if the first nucleic acid encodes a reporter.
         [0021] In certain aspects, the first nucleotide sequence encodes a reprogramming
factor and the second nucleotide sequence encodes a reporter or vice versa; alternatively, the
first and second nucleotide sequences encode different reprogramming factors. To coexpress
multiple reprogramming factors under the same transcriptional regulatory element, the
expression cassette may comprise a second IRES and a third nucleotide sequence located 3'
to the second IRES such that the third nucleotide sequence is under translational control of
the second IRES. In any of the above scenarios, a reporter may be encoded by the first,
second or third nucleotide sequence for improving transfection and iPS cell selection
efficiency.
                                                  -6-

   WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
        [0022] In a further aspect, there is also provided a reprogramming vector comprising
a polycistronic expression cassette comprising: (a) a transcriptional regulatory element; and
(b) a first and second coding sequence operably linked to the transcriptional regulatory
element, wherein the first coding sequence encodes a reprogramming factor and the second
coding sequence encodes a second reprogramming factor or a reporter. For example, the
transcriptional regulatory element may comprise a long terminal repeat region, a promoter, an
enhancer, a transcriptional control element, etc. As comprised in the polycistronic expression
cassette, the second coding sequence may encode a reporter for facilitation of selection of
expression or essential loss of expression of the coding sequence(s) to aid in the
reprogramming process. Alternatively, the second coding sequence may be a second or more
reprogramming factors to reduce proviral copies and chances for insertional mutagenesis by
expressing two or more reprogramming factors from a single polycistronic transcript.
Similarly, the polycistronic expression cassette may comprise one or more additional coding
sequence (for example, a third, fourth, or fifth coding sequence, etc.) operably linked to the
transcriptional regulatory element, wherein the one or more additional coding sequence
encodes a reprogramming factor, a reporter, or a selection marker. For example, the selection
marker may be an antibiotic resistance marker or a surface selection marker.
        [0023] In exemplary embodiments of the reprogramming vector described above, the
reporter may be a cell surface marker, a fluorescent protein, an epitope, chloramphenicol
acetyl transferase (CAT), luciferase or -galactosidase. For instance, the fluorescent protein
could be a green fluorescent protein (GFP), red fluorescent protein (RFP), blue fluorescent
protein (BFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP), or a variant thereof, such as eGFP, eRFP,
eBFP, eBFP2, eCFP, eYFP. In certain aspects, the reprogramming vector may further
comprise a selection marker, such as an antibiotic resistance marker.
        [0024] In a further embodiment of the reprogramming vector, the iPS reprogramming
factor encoded by any of the nucleotide sequences comprised in the reprogramming vectors
may comprise Sox, Oct, Nanog, Lin28, Klf4 or c-Myc. For example, Sox may be Sox-1, Sox
2, Sox-3, Sox-15, or Sox-18; Oct may be Oct-4. Additional factors may increase the
reprogramming efficiency, like Nanog, Lin28, Klf4, or c-Myc. In a still further embodiment,
the vector may be a viral vector, more specifically, a retroviral vector, such as murine
leukemia virus (MLV), Moloney murine leukemia virus (MMLV), Akv-MLV, SL-3-3-MLV
                                                 -7-

    WO 2010/019569                                                     PCT/US2009/053403
or another closely related virus. The viral vector could also be a lentiviral vector, an
adenoviral vector, an Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)-based vector. In certain aspects, the
transcriptional regulatory element may comprise a long terminal repeat region (LTR) to
mediate integration and transcription of exogenous genes.
         [0025] In certain embodiments, the reprogramming vector may comprise one or more
internal ribosome entry sites (IRESs) or any sequences sufficient to drive independent
translation of coding sequences. Exemplary IRES may be an encephalomyocarditis virus
IRES, a picornavirus IRES, a foot-and-mouth disease virus IRES, a hepatitis A virus IRES, a
hepatitis C virus IRES, a human rhinovirus IRES, a poliovirus IRES, a swine vesicular
disease virus IRES, a turnip mosaic potyvirus IRES, a human fibroblast growth factor 2
mRNA IRES, a pestivirus IRES, a Leishmania RNA virus IRES, a Moloney murine leukemia
virus IRES a human rhinovirus 14 IRES, an aphthovirus IRES, a human immunoglobulin
heavy chain binding protein mRNA IRES, a Drosophila Antennapedia mRNA IRES, a
human fibroblast growth factor 2 mRNA IRES, a hepatitis G virus IRES, a tobamovirus
IRES, a vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA IRES, a Coxsackie B group virus IRES, a
c-myc protooncogene mRNA IRES, a human MYT2 mRNA IRES, a human parechovirus
type 1 virus IRES, a human parechovirus type 2 virus IRES, a eukaryotic initiation factor 4GI
mRNA IRES, a Plautia stali intestine virus IRES, a Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus
IRES, a bovine enterovirus IRES, a connexin 43 mRNA IRES, a homeodomain protein Gtx
mRNA IRES, an AMLi transcription factor mRNA IRES, an NF-kappa B repressing factor
mRNA IRES, an X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis mRNA IRES, a cricket paralysis virus RNA
IRES, a p58 (PITSLRE) protein kinase mRNA IRES, an ornithine decarboxylase mRNA
IRES, a connexin-32 mRNA IRES, a bovine viral diarrhea virus IRES, an insulin-like growth
factor I receptor mRNA IRES, a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 gag gene IRES, a
classical swine fever virus IRES, a Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus IRES, a short
IRES selected from a library of random oligonucleotides, a Jembrana disease virus IRES, an
apoptotic protease-activating factor 1 mRNA IRES, a Rhopalosiphum padi virus IRES, a
cationic amino acid transporter mRNA IRES, a human insulin-like growth factor II leader 2
mRNA IRES, a giardiavirus IRES, a Smad5 mRNA IRES, a porcine teschovirus-1 talfan
IRES, a Drosophila Hairless mRNA IRES, an hSNM1 mRNA IRES, a Cbfal/Runx2 mRNA
IRES, an Epstein-Barr virus IRES, a hibiscus chlorotic ringspot virus IRES, a rat pituitary
                                               -8-

   WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
vasopressin VIb receptor mRNA IRES, a human hsp70 mRNA IRES, or a variant thereof. In
particular, the IRES element may be an encephalomyocarditis virus IRES, a picomavirus
IRES, or a foot-and-mouth disease virus IRES.
        [0026] In further embodiments, there is provided a method for producing an induced
pluripotent stem (iPS) cell population, the method comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining one
or more reprogramming vectors described above; and (b) introducing the reprogramming
vectors into cells of a population of somatic cells to provide an iPS cell population. In certain
aspects, the one or more reprogramming vectors for producing iPS cells may include coding
sequences that encode reprogramming factors comprising Sox and Oct.
        [0027] The methods may further comprise the step of: (c) culturing the cells to
expand the population; and (d) selecting progeny cells of the expanded population, wherein
the progeny cells have one or more characteristics of embryonic stem cells. An additional
step may be further comprised in the method: (e)       culturing the selected progeny cells to
provide the iPS cell population.
        [0028] For the reprogramming vectors comprising coding sequence(s) encoding a
reporter, the step (c) may further comprise selecting the population of somatic cells, wherein
the selected somatic cells express the reporter because there is a correlation between the
expression of the reporter and the reprogramming              factor after introduction of the
reprogramming vectors. The selecting in step c) may comprise an optical assay, fluorescence
activated cell sorting (FACS), CAT assay or luminescence assay for detection of reporter
expression in certain aspects.
        [0029] In certain aspects, the one or more reprogramming vector is introduced into
the somatic cells by liposome transfection, electroporation, particle bombardment, calcium
phosphate, polycation, polyanion, or any method known in the art for cellular entry of
nucleotides.
        [0030] For reprogramming, the somatic cells may be mammalian somatic cells, such
as human somatic cells. The types of somatic cells could be fibroblasts, hematopoietic cells,
lymphocytes (such as T cells or B cells), mesenchymal cells, islet cells, or tissue stem cells.
                                                -9-

           [0031] After a predetermined period for progeny cells to establish a self-sufficient
pluripotent state, expression of the expression cassettes comprised in the viral vectors will be
turned off. Therefore, the progeny cells could be selected for characteristics such as an
essential loss of the reporter expression, or other known embryonic cell-like properties, such
as an undifferentiated morphology, an embryonic stem cell-specific marker or pluripotency.
The progeny cells could be selected by an optical assay, fluorescence-activated cell sorting
(FACS), CAT assay or luminescence assay for selection of loss or reduction of reporter
expression, or ES cell-specific surface markers, such as SSEA-3, SSEA-4, Tra-1-60 or Tra-1
81, Tra-2-49/6E, GDF3, REXI, FGF4, ESGI, DPPA2, DPPA4, and hTERT.
           [0032] Embodiments discussed in the context of methods and/or compositions of the
invention may be employed with respect to any other method or composition described
herein. Thus, an embodiment pertaining to one method or composition may be applied to
other methods and compositions of the invention as well.
           [0033] As used herein the terms "encode" or "encoding" with reference to a nucleic
acid are used to make the invention readily understandable by the skilled artisan however
these terms may be used interchangeably with "comprise" or "comprising" respectively.
           [0034] As used herein the specification, "a" or "an" may mean one or more. As used
herein in the claim(s), when used in conjunction with the word "comprising", the words "a"
or "an" may mean one or more than one.           Throughout this specification and the claims,
unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise" and its variations, such as
"comprises" and "comprising," will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer
or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
of integers or steps.
           [0035] The use of the term "or" in the claims is used to mean "and/or" unless
explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are mutually exclusive,
although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and "and/or." As
used herein "another" may mean at least a second or more.
           [0036] Throughout this application, the term "about" is used to indicate that a value
includes the inherent variation of error for the device, the method being employed to
determine the value, or the variation that exists among the study subjects.
           [0037] Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become
apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood, however, that the
85190658.1                                       - 10-

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
detailed description and the specific examples, while indicating preferred embodiments of the
invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modifications
within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art
from this detailed description.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [0038] The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included
to further demonstrate certain aspects of the present invention. The invention may be better
understood by reference to one or more of these drawings in combination with the detailed
description of specific embodiments presented herein.
        [0039] FIG. 1A-B: Examples of an IRES-dependent polycistronic system.
                  DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
I.      The Present Invention
        [0040] The ability to drive somatic, or fully differentiated, human cells back to a
pluripotent or "stem cell" state would overcome many of the significant scientific and social
challenges to the use of embryo-derived stem cells and help realize the promise of
regenerative medicine. However, the current reprogramming process is inefficient and thus
inhibits its application. The instant invention overcomes several major problems with current
reprogramming technologies in generating induced pluripotent stem cells with improved
efficiency. In contrast to previous methods generally using selection based on embryonic
stem cell-like morphology alone, certain aspects of these methods use vectors expressing
polycistronic transcripts encoding reporters in addition to reprogramming factors to refine
selection and optimize the efficiency of reprogramming cells. Further embodiments and
advantages of the invention are described below.
                                                - 11 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
II.     Definitions
         [0041] "Reprogramming" is a process that confers on a cell a measurably increased
capacity to form progeny of at least one new cell type, either in culture or in vivo, than it
would have under the same conditions               without reprogramming.   More    specifically,
reprogramming is a process that confers on a somatic cell a pluripotent potential. This means
that after sufficient proliferation, a measurable proportion of progeny having phenotypic
characteristics of the new cell type if essentially no such progeny could form before
reprogramming; otherwise, the proportion having characteristics of the new cell type is
measurably more than before reprogramming. Under certain conditions, the proportion of
progeny with characteristics of the new cell type may be at least about 1 %, 5%, 25% or more
in the in order of increasing preference.
         [0042] A "vector" or "construct" (sometimes referred to as gene delivery or gene
transfer "vehicle") refers to a macromolecule or complex of molecules comprising a
polynucleotide to be delivered to a host cell, either in vitro or in vivo.
         [0043] By "expression construct" or "expression cassette" is meant a nucleic acid
molecule that is capable of directing transcription. An expression construct includes, at the
least, a promoter or a structure functionally equivalent to a promoter. Additional elements,
such as an enhancer, and/or a transcription termination signal, may also be included.
         [0044] The term "exogenous," when used in relation to a protein, gene, nucleic acid,
or polynucleotide in a cell or organism refers to a protein, gene, nucleic acid, or
polynucleotide which has been introduced into the cell or organism by artificial or natural
means, or in relation to a cell refers to a cell which was isolated and subsequently introduced
to other cells or to an organism by artificial or natural means. An exogenous nucleic acid may
be from a different organism or cell, or it may be one or more additional copies of a nucleic
acid which occurs naturally within the organism or cell. An exogenous cell may be from a
different organism, or it may be from the same organism. By way of a non-limiting example,
an exogenous nucleic acid is in a chromosomal location different from that of natural cells, or
is otherwise flanked by a different nucleic acid sequence than that found in nature.
                                                 - 12 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
        [0045] The term "corresponds to" is used herein to mean that a polynucleotide
sequence is homologous (i.e., is identical, not strictly evolutionarily related) to all or a portion
of a reference polynucleotide sequence, or that a polypeptide sequence is identical to a
reference polypeptide sequence. In contradistinction, the term "complementary to" is used
herein to mean that the complementary sequence is homologous to all or a portion of a
reference polynucleotide sequence. For illustration, the nucleotide sequence "TATAC"
corresponds to a reference sequence "TATAC" and is complementary to a reference sequence
"GTATA".
        [0046] A "gene,"       "polynucleotide," "coding region,"      "sequence, " "segment,"
"fragment," or "transgene" which "encodes" a particular protein, is a nucleic acid molecule
which is transcribed and optionally also translated into a gene product, e.g., a polypeptide, in
vitro or in vivo when placed under the control of appropriate regulatory sequences. The
coding region may be present in either a cDNA, genomic DNA, or RNA form. When present
in a DNA form, the nucleic acid molecule may be single-stranded (i.e., the sense strand) or
double-stranded. The boundaries of a coding region are determined by a start codon at the 5'
(amino) terminus and a translation stop codon at the 3' (carboxy) terminus. A gene can
include, but is not limited to, cDNA from prokaryotic or eukaryotic mRNA, genomic DNA
sequences    from prokaryotic or eukaryotic DNA,           and synthetic DNA        sequences. A
transcription termination sequence will usually be located 3' to the gene sequence.
        [0047] The term       "control elements"    refers collectively    to promoter regions,
polyadenylation signals, transcription termination sequences, upstream regulatory domains,
origins of replication, internal ribosome entry sites ("IRES"), enhancers, splice junctions, and
the like, which collectively provide for the replication, transcription, post-transcriptional
processing and translation of a coding sequence in a recipient cell. Not all of these control
elements need always be present so long as the selected coding sequence is capable of being
replicated, transcribed and translated in an appropriate host cell.
        [0048] The term "LTR" as used herein refers to the long terminal repeat found at each
end of a provirus (e.g.., the integrated form of a retrovirus). The LTR contains numerous
regulatory signals including transcriptional control elements, polyadenylation signals and
sequences needed for replication and integration of the viral genome. The viral LTR is
                                                - 13 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
divided into three regions called U3, R and U5. The U3 region contains the enhancer and
promoter elements. The U5 region contains the polyadenylation signals. The R (repeat)
region separates the U3 and U5 regions and transcribed sequences of the R region appear at
both the 5' and 3' ends of the viral RNA.
        [0049] "Fluorescent protein" refers to a class of proteins comprising a fluorescent
chromophore, the chromophore being formed from at least 3 amino acids and characterized
by a cyclization reaction creating a p-hydroxybenzylidene-imidazolidinone chromophore.
The chromophore does not contain a prosthetic group and is capable of emitting light of
selective energy, the energy having been stored in the chromophore by previous illumination
from an outside light source comprising the correct wavelength(s). Spontaneously fluorescent
proteins can be of any structure, with a chromophore comprising any number of amino acids,
provided that the chromophore comprises the p-hydroxybenzylidene-imidazolidinone ring
structure, as detailed above. SFP's typically, but not exclusively, comprise a -barrel structure
such as that found in green fluorescent proteins and described in Chalfie et al. (1994).
        [0050] Fluorescent proteins characteristically exhibit "fluorescent properties," which
are the ability to produce, in response to an incident light of a particular wavelength absorbed
by the protein, a light of longer wavelength.
        [0051] The term "promoter" is used herein in its ordinary sense to refer to a
nucleotide region comprising a DNA regulatory sequence, wherein the regulatory sequence is
derived from a gene which is capable of binding RNA polymerase and initiating transcription
of a downstream (3' direction) coding sequence.
        [0052] By "enhancer" is meant a nucleic acid sequence that, when positioned
proximate to a promoter, confers increased transcription activity relative to the transcription
activity resulting from the promoter in the absence of the enhancer domain.
        [0053] By "operably linked" with reference to nucleic acid molecules is meant that
two or more nucleic acid molecules (e.g., a nucleic acid molecule to be transcribed, a
promoter, and an enhancer element) are connected in such a way as to permit transcription of
the nucleic acid molecule. "Operably linked" with reference to peptide and/or polypeptide
molecules is meant that two or more peptide and/or polypeptide molecules are connected in
                                                - 14 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                            PCT/US2009/053403
such a way as to yield a single polypeptide chain, i.e., a fusion polypeptide, having at least
one property of each peptide and/or polypeptide component of the fusion. The fusion
polypeptide is preferably chimeric, i.e., composed of heterologous molecules.
         [0054] The term "cell" is herein used in its broadest sense in the art and refers to a
living body which is a structural unit of tissue of a multicellular organism, is surrounded by a
membrane structure which isolates it from the outside, has the capability of self replicating,
and has genetic information and a mechanism for expressing it. Cells used herein may be
naturally-occurring cells or artificially modified cells (e.g., fusion cells, genetically modified
cells, etc.).
         [0055] As used herein, the term "stem cell" refers to a cell capable of self replication
and pluripotency. Typically, stem cells can regenerate an injured tissue. Stem cells herein
may be, but are not limited to, embryonic stem (ES) cells or tissue stem cells (also called
tissue-specific stem cell, or somatic stem cell). Any artificially produced cell which can have
the above-described abilities (e.g., fusion cells, reprogrammed cells, or the like used herein)
may be a stem cell.
         [0056] "Embryonic stem (ES) cells" are pluripotent stem cells derived from early
embryos. An ES cell was first established in 1981, which has also been applied to production
of knockout mice since 1989. In 1998, a human ES cell was established, which is currently
becoming available for regenerative medicine.
         [0057] Unlike ES cells, tissue stem cells have a limited differentiation potential.
Tissue stem cells are present at particular locations in tissues and have an undifferentiated
intracellular structure. Therefore, the pluripotency of tissue stem cells is typically low. Tissue
stem cells have a higher nucleus/cytoplasm ratio and have few intracellular organelles. Most
tissue stem cells have low pluripotency, a long cell cycle, and proliferative ability beyond the
life of the individual. Tissue stem cells are separated into categories, based on the sites from
which the cells are derived, such as the dermal system, the digestive system, the bone marrow
system, the nervous system, and the like. Tissue stem cells in the dermal system include
epidermal stem cells, hair follicle stem cells, and the like. Tissue stem cells in the digestive
system include pancreatic (common) stem cells, liver stem cells, and the like. Tissue stem
                                                 - 15 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
cells in the bone marrow system include hematopoietic stem cells, mesenchymal stem cells,
and the like. Tissue stem cells in the nervous system include neural stem cells, retinal stem
cells, and the like.
         [0058] "Induced pluripotent stem cells," commonly abbreviated as iPS cells or iPSCs,
refer to a type of pluripotent stem cell artificially prepared from a non-pluripotent cell,
typically an adult somatic cell, or terminally differentiated cell, such as fibroblast, a
hematopoietic cell, a myocyte, a neuron, an epidermal cell, or the like, by inserting certain
genes, referred to as reprogramming factors.
         [0059] "Pluripotency" refers to a stem cell that has the potential to differentiate into
all cells constituting one or more tissues or organs, or preferably, any of the three germ
layers: endoderm (interior stomach lining, gastrointestinal tract, the lungs), mesoderm
(muscle, bone, blood, urogenital), or ectoderm (epidermal tissues and nervous system).
"Pluripotent stem cells" used herein refer to cells that can differentiate into cells derived from
any of the three germ layers, for example, descendants of totipotent cells or induced
pluripotent cells.
         [0060] "Self-renewal" refers to the ability to go through numerous cycles of cell
division while maintaining the undifferentiated state.
         [0061] As used herein, the term "somatic cell" refers to any cell other than germ cells,
such as an egg, a sperm, or the like, which does not directly transfer its DNA to the next
generation. Typically, somatic cells have limited or no pluripotency. Somatic cells used
herein may be naturally-occurring or genetically modified.
III.     General Background for Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells
         [0062] In certain embodiments of the invention, there are disclosed methods of
reprogramming somatic cells with a reprogramming vector expressing a polycistronic
transcript encoding both reporters and reprogramming factors. For example, these cells could
be first selected for expression of reporter genes to enrich transformed cells and later their
progeny selected for silencing of reporter genes for induced pluripotent stem cells.
                                               -16-

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
Understanding of embryonic stem cell characteristics could help select induced pluripotent
stem cells in addition to these methods. Reprogramming factors known from stem cell
reprogramming studies could be used for these novel methods. It is further contemplated that
these induced pluripotent stem cells could be potentially used to replace embryonic stem cells
for therapeutics and research applications due to the ethics hurdle to use the latter.
                A.       Stem Cells
         [0063] Stem cells are cells found in most, if not all, multi-cellular organisms. They
are characterized by the ability to renew themselves through mitotic cell division and
differentiating into a diverse range of specialized cell types. The two broad types of
mammalian stem cells are: embryonic stem cells that are found in blastocysts, and adult stem
cells that are found in adult tissues. In a developing embryo, stem cells can differentiate into
all of the specialized embryonic tissues. In adult organisms, stem cells and progenitor cells
act as a repair system for the body, replenishing specialized cells, but also maintain the
normal turnover of regenerative organs, such as blood, skin or intestinal tissues.
         [0064] As stem cells can be grown and transformed into specialized cells with
characteristics consistent with cells of various tissues such as muscles or nerves through cell
culture, their use in medical therapies has been proposed. In particular, embryonic cell lines,
autologous embryonic stem cells generated through therapeutic cloning, and highly plastic
adult stem cells from the umbilical cord blood or bone marrow are touted as promising
candidates. Most recently, the reprogramming of adult cells into induced pluripotent stem
cells has enormous potential for replacing embryonic stem cells.
                B.      Embryonic Stem Cells
         [0065] Embryonic stem cell lines (ES cell lines) are cultures of cells derived from the
epiblast tissue of the inner cell mass (ICM) of a blastocyst or earlier morula stage embryos. A
blastocyst is an early stage embryo-approximately four to five days old in humans and
consisting of 50-150 cells. ES cells are pluripotent and give rise during development to all
derivatives of the three primary germ layers: ectoderm, endoderm and mesoderm. In other
words, they can develop into each of the more than 200 cell types of the adult body when
given sufficient and necessary stimulation for a specific cell type. They do not contribute to
the extra-embryonic membranes or the placenta.
                                                - 17 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                            PCT/US2009/053403
         [0066] Nearly all research to date has taken place using mouse embryonic stem cells
(mES)     or human embryonic stem cells (hES). Both have the essential stem cell
characteristics, yet they require very different environments in order to maintain an
undifferentiated state. Mouse ES cells may be grown on a layer of gelatin and require the
presence of Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF). Human ES cells could be grown on a feeder
layer of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and often require the presence of basic
Fibroblast Growth Factor (bFGF or FGF-2). Without optimal culture conditions or genetic
manipulation (Chambers et al., 2003), embryonic stem cells will rapidly differentiate.
         [0067] A human embryonic stem cell may be also defined by the presence of several
transcription factors and cell surface proteins. The transcription factors Oct-4, Nanog, and
Sox2 form the core regulatory network that ensures the suppression of genes that lead to
differentiation and the maintenance of pluripotency (Boyer et al., 2005). The cell surface
antigens most commonly used to identify hES cells include the glycolipids SSEA3 and
SSEA4 and the keratan sulfate antigens Tra- 1-60 and Tra- 1-81.
         [0068] After twenty years of research, there are no approved treatments or human
trials using embryonic stem cells. ES cells, being pluripotent cells, require specific signals for
correct differentiation - if injected directly into the body, ES cells will differentiate into many
different types of cells, causing a teratoma. Differentiating ES cells into usable cells while
avoiding transplant rejection are just a few of the hurdles that embryonic stem cell
researchers still face. Many nations currently have moratoria on either ES cell research or the
production of new ES cell lines. Because of their combined abilities of unlimited expansion
and pluripotency, embryonic stem cells remain a theoretically potential source for
regenerative medicine and tissue replacement after injury or disease. However, one way to
circumvent these issues is to induce pluripotent status in somatic cells by direct
reprogramming.
                C.      Reprogramming Factors
         [0069] The generation of iPS cells is crucial on the genes used for the induction. The
following factors or combination thereof could be used in the vector system disclosed in the
present invention. In certain aspects, nucleic acids encoding Sox and Oct (preferably Oct3/4)
will be included into the reprogramming vector. For example, a reprogramming vector may
                                                   - 18 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
comprise expression cassettes encoding Sox2, Oct4, Nanog and optionally Lin-28, or
expression cassettes encoding Sox2, Oct4, Klf4 and optionally c-myc. Nucleic acids encoding
these reprogramming factors may be comprised in the same expression cassette, different
expression cassettes, the same reprogramming vector, or different reprogramming vectors.
        [0070] Oct-3/4 and certain members of the Sox gene family (SoxI, Sox2, Sox3, and
Sox15) have been identified as crucial transcriptional regulators involved in the induction
process whose absence makes induction impossible. Additional genes, however, including
certain members of the Klf family (Klfl, Klf2, Klf4, and Klf5), the Myc family (C-myc, L
myc, and N-myc), Nanog, and LIN28, have been identified to increase the induction
efficiency.
        [0071] Oct-3/4 (Pou5fl) is one of the family of octamer ("Oct") transcription factors,
and plays a crucial role in maintaining pluripotency. The absence of Oct-3/4 in Oct-3/4+
cells, such as blastomeres and embryonic stem cells, leads to spontaneous trophoblast
differentiation, and presence of Oct-3/4 thus gives rise to the pluripotency and differentiation
potential of embryonic stem cells. Various other genes in the "Oct" family, including Oct
3/4's close relatives, Oct1 and Oct6, fail to elicit induction, thus demonstrating the
exclusiveness of Oct-3/4 to the induction process.
        [0072] The Sox family of genes is associated with maintaining pluripotency similar to
Oct-3/4, although it is associated with multipotent and unipotent stem cells in contrast with
Oct-3/4, which is exclusively expressed in pluripotent stem cells. While Sox2 was the initial
gene used for induction by Yamanaka et al. (2007), Jaenisch et al. (1988) and Yu et al.
(2007), other genes in the Sox family have been found to work as well in the induction
process. SoxI yields iPS cells with a similar efficiency as Sox2, and genes Sox3, Sox15, and
Sox 18 also generate iPS cells, although with decreased efficiency.
        [0073] In embryonic stem cells, at least an Oct member such as Oct-3/4 and at least a
Sox member such as Sox2, are necessary in promoting pluripotency. Yamanaka et al. (2007)
reported that Nanog was unnecessary for induction although Yu et al. (2007) has reported it
is possible to generate iPS cells with Nanog as one of the factors and Nanog certainly
enhances reprogramming efficiency dose-dependently.
                                               - 19 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
         [0074] LIN28 is an mRNA binding protein expressed in embryonic stem cells and
embryonic carcinoma cells associated with differentiation and proliferation. Yu et al. (2007)
demonstrated it is a factor in iPS generation, although it is unnecessary.
         [0075] Klf4 of the Klf family of genes was initially identified by Yamanaka et al. and
confirmed by Jaenisch et al. (1988) as a factor for the generation of mouse iPS cells and was
demonstrated by Yamanaka et al. (2007) as a factor for generation of human iPS cells.
However, Thompson et al. reported that Klf4 was unnecessary for generation of human iPS
cells and in fact failed to generate human iPS cells. Klf2 and Klf4 were found to be factors
capable of generating iPS cells, and related genes Klfl and Klf5 did as well, although with
reduced efficiency.
         [0076] The Myc family of genes are proto-oncogenes              implicated in cancer.
Yamanaka et al. and Jaenisch et al. (1988) demonstrated that c-myc is a factor implicated in
the generation of mouse iPS cells and Yamanaka et al. demonstrated it was a factor
implicated in the generation of human iPS cells. However, Thomson et al. and Yamanaka et
al. (2007) reported that c-myc was unnecessary for generation of human iPS cells. Usage of
the "myc" family of genes in induction of iPS cells is troubling for the eventuality of iPS cells
as clinical therapies, as 25% of mice transplanted with c-myc-induced iPS cells developed
lethal teratomas. N-myc and L-myc have been identified to induce in the stead of c-myc with
similar efficiency.
         D.     Induction of Pluripotent Stem Cells Using Reprogramming Factors
         [0077] IPS cells are typically derived by transfection of certain stem cell-associated
genes into non-pluripotent cells, such as adult fibroblasts. Transfection is typically achieved
through integrating viral vectors in the current practice, such as retroviruses. Transfected
genes include the master transcriptional regulators Oct-3/4 (Pouf5 1) and Sox2, although it is
suggested that other genes enhance the efficiency of induction. After a critical period, small
numbers of transfected cells begin to become morphologically and biochemically similar to
pluripotent stem cells, and are typically isolated through morphological selection, doubling
time, or through a reporter gene and antibiotic infection.
                                                - 20 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
        [0078] In November 2007, a milestone was achieved by creating iPS from adult
human cells from two independent research teams' studies (Yu et al., 2007; Yamanaka et al.,
2007). With the same principle used earlier in mouse models, Yamanaka had successfully
transformed human fibroblasts into pluripotent stem cells using the same four pivotal genes:
Oct3/4, Sox2, Klf4, and c-Myc with a retroviral system but c-Myc is oncogenic. Thomson
and colleagues used Oct4, Sox2, NANOG, and a different gene LIN28 using a lentiviral
system avoiding the use of c-Myc.
        [0079] However, current process for generation of induce pluripotent stem cells is
slow and inefficient, with most cells failing. To improve the efficiency of this process, in
certain aspects, the present methods and vectors utilize a polycistronic construct containing a
reprogramming factor and a reporter to optimize transfection efficiency by selecting for the
presence of reporters and later improve selection of pluripotent cells by selecting against
reporter gene expression because transgene silencing is very effective in pluripotent cells.
IV.     Polycistronic System for Generating Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells
        [0080] In certain aspects of the present invention, the flexibility and efficient
expression from this IRES-dependent polycistronic system underlie its advantages and
establish it as a useful tool to enhance the efficiency of producing iPS cells. The various
permutations of this system include but are not limited to (see FIG. 1 for examples):        1)
altering the reporters used (e.g., cyan fluorescent protein, red fluorescent protein, etc), 2)
substituting the reporter gene for another reprogramming gene so that fewer viruses need to
be synthesized, or 3) creating a cassette with two IRES' such that the LTR would drive
expression of Oct4 IRES Sox-2 IRES eGFP.
        A.      Internal Ribosome Entry Sites (IRES)
        [0081] IRES sequences are included in the present invention to allow polycistronic
transcripts to be produced. This allows expression systems of the present invention to
produce multiple reprogramming factors from a single transcriptional unit, or to readily
incorporate reporters into polycistronic transcripts without creating fusion proteins or the
necessity of additional regulatory elements to control expression of additional genes.
                                               - 21 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                       PCT/US2009/053403
         [0082] Most eukaryotic and viral messages initiate translation by a mechanism
involving recognition of a 7-methylguanosine cap at the 5' end of the mRNA. In a few cases,
however, translation occurs via a cap-independent mechanism in which an internal ribosome
entry site (IRES) positioned 3' downstream of the gene translated from the cap region of the
mRNA is recognized by the ribosome, allowing translation of a second coding region from
the transcript. Therefore, IRES elements are able to bypass the ribosome scanning model of
5' methylated Cap dependent translation and begin translation at internal sites (Pelletier and
Sonenberg, 1988).
         [0083] This is particularly important in the present invention as an IRES sequence
allows simultaneous expression of multiple proteins from a single genetic locus.          IRES
elements can be linked to heterologous open reading frames. Multiple open reading frames
can be transcribed together, each separated by an IRES, creating polycistronic messages. By
virtue of the IRES element, each open reading frame is accessible to ribosomes for efficient
translation. Multiple genes can be efficiently expressed using a single promoter/enhancer to
transcribe a single message (see U.S. Patent Nos. 5,925,565 and 5,935,819, each herein
incorporated by reference).
         [0084] A particularly preferred embodiment involves including coding sequences for
both a desired recombinant product and a reporter within the same polycistronic transcript.
Successful    transformation    events  are marked by     both   expression    of the desired
reprogramming      factors and the easily detectable     reporters, facilitating  selection of
successfully transfected cells.
         [0085] IRES elements from two members of the picornavirus family (polio and
encephalomyocarditis) have been described (Pelletier and Sonenberg, 1988), as well an IRES
from a mammalian message (Macejak and Sarnow, 1991). Certain examples include those
IRES elements from poliovirus Type I, the 5UTTR of encephalomyocarditis virus (EMV), of
"Thelier's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV), of "foot and mouth disease virus"
(FMDV), of "bovine enterovirus (BEV), of "coxsackie B virus" (CBV), or of "human
rhinovirus" (HRV), or the "human immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein" (BIP)
5UTTR, the Drosophila antennapediae 5UTTR or the Drosophila ultrabithorax 5UTTR, or
                                               -22-

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
genetic hybrids or fragments from the above-listed sequences. IRES sequences are described
in Kim et al. (1992) and McBratney et al. (1993).
        B.      Reporters
        [0086] Certain embodiments of the present invention utilize reporter genes to indicate
successful transformation. For example, the reporter gene can be located within expression
cassettes and under the control of the regulatory elements normally associated with the
coding region of a reprogramming gene for simultaneous expression. A reporter allows the
cells containing the reprogramming vector to be isolated without placing them under drug or
other selective pressures or otherwise risking cell viability. An additional advantage is to
enrich induced pluripotent stem cells with silenced reporter expression.
        [0087] Examples of such reporters include genes encoding cell surface proteins (e.g.,
CD4, HA epitope), fluorescent proteins, antigenic determinants and enzymes (e.g., 0
galactosidase).  The vector containing      cells may be isolated, e.g., by FACS using
fluorescently-tagged antibodies to the cell surface protein or substrates that can be converted
to fluorescent products by a vector encoded enzyme.
        [0088] In specific embodiments, the reporter gene is a fluorescent protein. A broad
range of fluorescent protein genetic variants have been developed that feature fluorescence
emission spectral profiles spanning almost the entire visible light spectrum (see Table 1 for
non-limiting examples). Mutagenesis efforts in the original Aequorea victoria jellyfish green
fluorescent protein have resulted in new fluorescent probes that range in color from blue to
yellow, and are some of the most widely used in vivo reporter molecules in biological
research. Longer wavelength fluorescent proteins, emitting in the orange and red spectral
regions, have been developed from the marine anemone, Discosoma striata, and reef corals
belonging to the class Anthozoa. Still other species have been mined to produce similar
proteins having cyan, green, yellow,        orange, and deep      red fluorescence    emission.
Developmental research efforts are ongoing to improve the brightness and stability of
fluorescent proteins, thus improving their overall usefulness.
                                                - 23 -

WO 2010/019569                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PCT/US2009/053403
                                                                                                                                           Table I Fluorescent Protein Properties
                                                                                                            ........         ----- .......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ......     -------
    ..............                                     .......                                               ................................................................
                                                                                                                                                         .......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - -- - - - -- - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ..........................
                  - - - - -.......................................................................                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,,,,R -e,,l,,,,,,,v,,,,e
                  ...........................................................................                                                            ........
                                                                                                                                                         ........                                                                                              ........         -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...........................   -    -    -   -         .         .......        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    --.............................  - .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -   -     -     --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ......     ,                                                                      .......-,,,
    ---
    .........................................................................................
                  ------- .''''''''''' E k 6 itatjo                                                                                                     ...............             - - -...            - - - - -M                  - -b.....                                                                                   , ,""",""""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,  ,  ,   ,, , ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,, ,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,, ,,,""",,""","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ""","","',     , , ,                                                          ,,.,,","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ....
    ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
    ----                                                                                                                                     -       :,n   ,,,
                                                                                                                                                           .,.,.,E        iiii
                                                                                                                                                                            .....  J S
                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,-   S    -
                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,W       - n -    ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                --i     ii
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -........i i-             ,     ,l&                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .. ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , , ,  , , ,   , , ,  ,                                       ,-      ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -     -    , , ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :i: ,  ,  ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ....  ,  , ,  ,  ,                                   ,,,,
    ,,,-
    -,,,                                  ,P"",           t ''''
                                                          ,''Oft",
                                            ,, ................  ,,.......              ::::::::
                                                                             :::::::::::::::m            ,--,,,,,,,
                                                                                                         .........- -,,--.-----    - - - - ............... ...........
                                                                                                                                                            ................               , , , , ,   , , ,  , , , , , ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -- , ,  ,,   , , , , , , , ,  , ,      :::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :w:::::::::::          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ..  :  .      :     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , w,,..............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......                           ::::::::::,     -3 ,,,,,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           n    _v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,   ,jvO:,:::::::::                   j:j  B                   O................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           jffi&                  g,
    --------
    ---------
    -,-)(:....... ,,,,,,---                             -----                                                          ,----- ........                      ::MaXirnurn,.,.E                                       ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,,,,,,,dffi.                                       --                 ----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ""","","",""             , ,  ,  , , ,  ,  ,   ,, , , ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,, , , ,,  , , ,,  , , .   ....................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ----------                              ...................      ........
    -:                       A         &:--  -
                                             ,,,,::,i,,,:,,:,                        :,
                                                                        ::,,,:,,:,::::::::            :    :::    MIMI=
                                                                                                                 :::::                                                                  , ,  ,, , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                           ----------   ,,   , , , ,                  , , , , , , "',  .fwn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,                 ,,,,,,,,,. - --,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :     -     --%          ,: .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            , ,   - ,  -  .  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .....  - ,  -..----                                            :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
    :,-           ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,cra      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,*,,,,,,,,,,,,,,),,.       .  .  .  ::::::::::::::
                                                                                                      .  .     ""',
                                                                                                           ......... ,( ,.---------
                                                                                                                           =-..
                                                                                                                           ..... --.,),'' .... .,-----
                                                                                                                                                       ,-........
                                                                                                                                                          ...............
                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,""","","',
                                                                                                                                                                  ..............
                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                          -,,,,,,,, ................................
                                                                                                                                                                                 h                  ,-,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,,,-,,C     -    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,, ,f,,,f",",       "",:,:,:,:,:::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;e-,,,,-,-,,-,,,,-,,,1&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,n       ,:,,:,,:,,:,,:,,:,,Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     t,,,,,,,                       I&td:: ,,,,,,,,,, ,S t"ru e..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..........   ,................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",""              ,,,tu  ,,,,'T  ,,,,,,,,iiiiiiiiiiiI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             b : ,,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,,,',,'f,,,,,-,,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,,"","","",""""","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,
                                                                                          ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , .....         .r   ,"',",-
                                                                                                                                  ....             -,,,-     ","","",         (   -                      ,            , ,, , ,  ,,                            ,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,, ,, , ,   ,                                          ""","",",                                     ,,  , , , ,",                                                                            -
                  ,...........................................................................
                                              ,
                                           ,
                                         ,
                                       ,
                             ,.............................................
                                , , ,,          , ,  ,, ,  , ,, , ,  ,  , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , , ,   ,, , ,  , , ,,   , , ,  ,,  , ,  , , , ,........
                                                                                                                                                          ""","","","",""",",             ,              ,   , , , , , ,                           ,  , ,............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ""","",",        ,  ,  ,  , , , ,, ,, , , ,  , , ,   ,  ,,  ,  , , ,  ,  ,   ,, , , ,,, , , ,,  , , ,,  ,   ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ......     i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:E           G          F   P        )    ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             "   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - 'I, ,
    ----                         - - - -........ ---- -- -- -------
                   ..............................................                                                                                           ...............
                                                                                                                                                           ................
                                                                                                                                                          ...............
                                                                                                                                                        ........
                                                                                                                                                        ...............                -- -- -........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -----
                                                                                                                                                                                                         .......       - - - - - -............................................
                   ................................................................................................................................................................................................................                                                                                                                                          ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........ ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ................- - -- -- - -- -- -- - ---.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -----                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .........
                                                              ,                              ----395 75: --                                             ,,,,,,,-,",",",
                                                                                                                                                                     ......                      -----                                                                                               -              ,,,,,,,,,,,,                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,4,8-,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,-,,-,*,,.......
                        ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    g,,,,7::::::::::::::::::::::::,                                                                                 .......
     -:-,,,-,GFP::("
                   -,,--          - - -, -""","",""
                                 --                          -, - ,-,,,-,,,-,::,,--,,-
                                                                                     "     "     "
                                                                                                               ,,,, - - ""","",",
                                                                                                   ,,,,"","","",,,
                                                                                                       ,,,,.......
                                                                                                      ,..........            ,   , , ,
                                                                                                                                                        ---
                                                                                                                                                        ............
                                                                                                                                       -,,,-,,,-,,,,.....
                                                                                                                                                        ,
                                                                                                                                                                        .....
                                                                                                                                                                         ....   509
                                                                                                                                                                            -,,,- --
                                                                                                                                                         -,,,,-,,,,,,.........
                                                                                                                                                                     -,,,,,........
                                                                                                                                                                            .......    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                        , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,,-,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                      ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,                  ,,,,,,,,,,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,,,,,,,,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,,""",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,, , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21-,"O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i 0_0:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          , , ,, ,""","",",        ,  ,  ,  , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,, , , ,      ,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,-,""","","",",            ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Onom-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........    ,-,,,-,,,-,,er                ,-,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,,,""","",",  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ---               ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,-,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,-,,,-,,,-...    "",,,,I
      ..............
      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,                                 ....    , ,, , ,   -----                 ,  ,      , , , ,   ,, , ,  ",                                                                                            ..................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .........           -  -    -    -         -     -      -    -    -            .
      ,-----
       ..............          , , ,, ,
                        ,,............. , , ,  , ,  ,
                                                    ,
                                                      ................................
                                                       ........
                                                       ""","",""        , ,
                                                                       -----, ,  ,  ,
                                                        ..............................
                                                       ........
                   -,,,-,,,-,,,--,,--.................................................
                                                        ......................
                                                       ""","",""        , , , ,  ,  ,  ,
                                                                                       ,  ,
                                                                                          ,  ,
                                                                                             ,  ,
                                                                                                ,   ,
                                                                                                    ,  ,
                                                                                                       , ,
                                                                                                         ,  .......
                                                                                                           ........
                                                                                                           .........
                                                                                                           """"","",        :---------
                                                                                                                             -,   ,-, ,  -
                                                                                                                                         ,,
                                                                                                                                         ----, , -, , ,-, ,-, ,  ,--
                                                                                                                                                                   , ,  , ,...
                                                                                                                                                                          ""',  G::
                                                                                                                                                                                 -----
                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                      r      "M
                                                                                                                                                                                         'C"',           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                         "  ,,:,:,
                                                                                                                                                                                                               "F     ,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I,U     0     T  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,----- S     ,Q    C  J  J U::p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........  !  ,:ro  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ---     ,:C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t     jn       8       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,  ,,  ,  , , ,  ,  ,   ,, , , , .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , , , ,,   -,,,,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   , ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ........, , , ,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                , ,  ,-----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -,,,,,,,,,,,,,, , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,       ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   .......          ,   , ,, , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -,,,,,,,,,,,,,  ,  ,  , --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , ,  , , "',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .....
       ---------   - -- -- --                    %     .......
                                                    .........        --------
                                                                      - - - - - - -- ........
                                                       .................................................                   ,.......
                                                                                                                            -- -------            -- -- ---,,-""","","","", ...
                                                                                                                                                                          .......... ,,,,.............
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - - -,,,-,,,-,,,-,,-,,""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,-,""","",",                                                      ,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - -- ...............                                ,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.......                                     ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,,,,.................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,-",,,-,,""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -,......                     ,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,-,,-,,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,-,,,,.......                                       -,,""","", ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -....
                                                      .......
                                            - -...............................                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                         ..........
                                                                                                                                                                            ...
                                                                                                                                                                            ...
                                                                                                                                                                           ...
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,,,,,,,",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ............ -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,""","",",                 ,,,,,,,,,,,,.........   ,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,""                -----                                                ,--      ......
        ,,----------      E M ::::::::::::::..................                               :,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:::       M84       , ...............
                                                                                                                                             ::::::::::::::::::5O7                                ,                              5    6,,O            00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             , ...............  ,,,,,,,,,,-              i:i:i:o.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,          6O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ...  -------                           m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         --------- ...............      on     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ... 0    'm  "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ..... -  er,        ...   -,,,,,,,,,,,I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,*,,,,,,,,,,,,,:0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            --,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -------- .                           O,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -,,,,,,
 I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ::
 , AcGFP                                                                                                                 480                                                    505                                              50,000                                                          0.55                                           M011011-ict"                                                                        8-,-                                ::
                          ---                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,%,";
         ......    -
 Ii:.,.,.,.,.,.TLirboGFP                                                                                                 482                                                    502                                              70,000                                                          0.53                                           M0110111CI-*                                                                       110                            :  I,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         :
                                        Fmci-ald                                                                         487                                                    509                                              57,500                                                          0.68                                           M0110111CI-*                                                                       116                                   ::
         -,,--,-- -,,,,,, ""","","",""""","","","",""","","","","",""",,""","","","",""","","","",""","","","",""""
                                                                         ................................................                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,            .......     , ,, , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,  , ,  ,            ,,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,,,,""","""",,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ""","","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,                                         :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         lI
                                               z am                      -,,,,,,
                                                                     i.-----                  .......                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                               ,,-,,,-,................................................
                                                                                                                         ,,,,,,,,,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                             ,-----
                                                                                                                  ,:,:,:A:92                                                 -----                       ........       ------                             ,, ,, ""","","",        ,  ,  ,  , , , ,,, , , ,  ,  """,,    ,,,,---   ,,,,,,,,-,,,-,,-----      ,----        .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,""",,""","          ,,  , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,  , ,  ,  , , ,   , , ,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........       --
                   ,-,,,-,,A
         :-,,,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,                                                                                                                                                                      ::::---------
                    ,,--,              ,--
                                                                                             .........         ...............               -                - - ...        ...............                 :::::::::::5:,           "''-*                      ,,,,,,,, -,-, ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           , ,:-,,,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,                                    -----                                    ----        -...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,                                          ,,,,,,,,""","","","",',
                                         ""","",           :::::::       : : : :
                                              ,,,:,:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  :  :  :  :  :  :   :::   ::  :  :                                                             505                                                   5-m5N,   000::::::::::::::0.74::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..........                          :,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                , , ,,,,,,:,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,M   ,  , , ,   ,   ,      ,,,,,onom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,,,""","",",           er,      -,,,,,,             ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,,,,,,,,,1:2:1             ,,,,,,,,-,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,,,,'I
          Q dD:n- ,,,,,,,                                   ,,,,,,..........
                                                           -,,,,,,
                                                           - - -""","",""
                                                                         ",""","",
                                                                          .......
                                                                        ""","",""             ,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,--,,,,,,,,,,        ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.........      ,,""","
                                                                                                                                                            ,,........
                                                                                           ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,...............
                                                                            - ...............                                                              ...................
                                                                                                                                                           ",""","",
                                                                                                                                                        ,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,"",- :::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                             ,-,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                           ,,-,,-,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 "
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,""","","","""",""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,""","","",      ,,,,,,,,,,,""","","","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,,,,"",""",          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,, ,,,,,,,""","",""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,""","","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ""","",",                         ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,,,,,,"",""",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ""","","",       ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,"-,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,,,,,,,,,,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,""""","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ..............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,""",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ":T-::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ","","","","',               I
  I.............                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  er::::::::::::::::::                                                                   :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       :OROm                                                                       117                                   ::
                                        ZsGi-ccii                                                                        493                                                    505                                             4 0 00                                                           0.91,:      :,-,:,:,:, Teti-miici-                                                                                                                                      :..
  I,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",                                     """,""",,           ,  ,  ,   ,  , , , ,   ,, , ,  , , ,,   , , ,  ,,  , ,  , , , ,
                                                                                                                                                        "",                                                                      -     -    %--  -      ,- ::::::::::::::,                     -    -    -    -       -      ...............                      ,-,,  ,-, ,  - "   -"   -    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ","","",""                -    -       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ...................      -    -
          -,,,,,,,,,,,,,
          ----------          ,,,,,,,,,,,,""","","",
                    ,.............                    ..........
                                                        .......         ,
                                                                        , ,
                                                                          , ,
                                                                            , ,
                                                                              ,  ,
                                                                                 ,  ,
                                                                                    ,  ,
                                                                                       ,  ,
                                                                                          ,  ,
                                                                                             ,  ,
                                                                                                ,   ,
                                                                                                    ,  ,
                                                                                                       , , ,
                                                                                     ........................,   ,, , ,  , ............................
                                                                                                                            ,.......
                                                                                                                             ,   , , ,  ,,-,,,,,--
                                                                                                                                           -----                 -
                                                                                                                                                          ""","",",     -   , -
                                                                                                                                                                              -S
                                                                                                                                                                           ....      ... t         C     ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,  ,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                            FI.q                 feseM                             -M             b        t   e   m,      s     -,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ---             -  .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ....... -   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -........   , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,, , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                , , ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,  , , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            , ,, -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,  , ,-.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ................      ,  , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,, ,  , , ,   ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,,,,,,,,,,,, , ,, ,  , ,  ,
                                                        - - -,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,...........................
                                                       ""","",""                                                                      ,,""","",",
                                                                                                                              ,,-,,,,,--- ""","",",     ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                        .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,""","","",                                             .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -,,-,,,-,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -........            ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,""","","","",""","",",",                                                                                           .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ""","",""         ,,  ,, ,, , ,,  , , ,,  , , , ,, ,  , ,  ,, , , ,   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,",,","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,",,""","","","","""",          -,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , ------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,-,,,,-,,,,,,,--m        ,,,,,""","","","",""","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,----------                                              ,,,,,,""","",""""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,........
          ..............                                                                                                                                ..............
                                                                                                                                                        ...............                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,
          -,,,--,             ,,--,,,,,,,,,""","",""
                                                              -
                                                                                                                           -,.......
                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...............................................................A     :        ,r":::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                           ,A,:,:,:,:,:     ----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   --------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........           ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ""","",",    ,--------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,--                                         ",""","","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..              ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ...................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             .. ....................                                  :::::::-:::-:::?,,               .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       --7,,:::::::*,,
          :,-,,,,                       E     B -
                              ,,,,,,,-,,,,,""","","", F -     P       , ""","",",
                                                                     --------
                                                                        , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,
                                                                     ......................  ,  ,   ,  , , ,
                                                                        ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",", """,""3           8    3:::       ,  , , , , , , ,  , , ,  , ,
                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, , , ,,,4                      ..............        "29,:I::O:O:,O:::::::::::::::O::3,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,, ,, ,,,..................                             --------- ,                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -,,,,,-,,,,,,: I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .:
                                        'SaIIIIIIII-C                                                                    399                                                    511                                              29,000                                                          0.64                                           M0110111el"                                                                         55                                     ::
                               ----- ...............                                          -----                            .......        ,,,,,,,                                                                   ...............                -----                      ...............               -----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -----                          ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                       -----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .......                     ...............                  ----                    ",   :
                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                 -     -       -     -
                                                                                                ,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.,.399::::::::::::::::::5 ----                                   ,1,   ,  1: : : :   :,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4      A,   '':O       00        ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  fy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,60:::::           -      -         -,,,    m X,          -              '', ......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nOM,,,Gr,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,   ,*     :  :  :  :  :  :  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :  : :  :  : : : ',70       : :  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,:,:,:-- : : :  : : : :,
                     :---- T: i :S:a:DDh::ire                                                                             -----                         ..................                   .                                                                     ,, , ,   ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , , ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,, ,    ,                           ""","",",       , ,, , ,,  , , ,,  , , , ,, ,                                 .....................               -,,,,-,,,
          -,,,-,,,-,,,-,,-,.,""","",",                 :...............
                                                         - ::::::::::::::::::::::::-""","",",                                                           ,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,-----
                                                                                                                               - - ,-,,,-,,,...............                                      -,,,,,,,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                        ,-,,,-,.........                 - - -,,,-,,-,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,-,,--,-,,...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,--................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,,-,,-,,,-,,- ...............                                                 ""","",""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ...........              -,,------------,,--.........                    ,,,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,.......                  ,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,,,,-,-,,,-,,'I        I
                                                        "",""",",
                           ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",
           ,,......................................     """,""""
                                                                     ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""""","",
                                                                       , , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   , ,   ,
                                                                                                            ,,,,,,,,,,,,""","","",
                                                                                                            ,  ,  ,, , ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                        ............          -
                                                                                                                            ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::C      y      a    n          F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,""","","","",""",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,.I.u      o    r     e    s    e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            n    t    P                     t   d   -in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,      s      ,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,,,,-,,-,,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...................                  ""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,, , , ,,  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .............................                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,-      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ...................               ,,,
             ,--------
                     ------ ,,,-,,,-,,-,,,%             """"",""
                                                        ""","",",
                                                  -,.,""","",",
                                                        ..............., , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   , ,   """"","",
                                                                                                           """"",""
                                                                                                           ,,  ,  ,, , ,  , ""","","","",""",",.......
                                                                                                                                                 , , , ,,  ,-,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                             ,  , , ,  , ,""",
                                                                                                                                                                           ,  ,,,                           ,        """,","""        ,, , , , , , ,  , , , ,,, ,, ,, , ,   ,  ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -----,  ",""","",      , , ,  , ,  ,",""","",,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,  ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ............... ,  , , ,  ,  ,   ,, , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -----""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,""","",",    , ,,  , , , ,, ,  ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ............... ,, , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  """,",""",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,  , ,  ,  , , ,- ,  , ,-  -       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ""","","","",""", -
                                                      ........       ,-----
                                                        .....................................
                                                                       ,,,,-,,,-,,,-,,-,,,...                  -,,,-,,A   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","                                 ,----------
                                                                                                                                                                                        ""","",",        ,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ""","",",                         ""","",",      ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .....    - ,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,-,,,-,,,-.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , ,OnOm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,""",","", - ,-,,,-,,-,,,-,,,........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -,,,-,,,-.......   ,,,,""","",,       - ,-,,-,,,-""","",      -
              -:-,,,-
               ----         ,,-- ,,,'EC F P --                       :::,  ,,,,,,,,,,,,......
                                                                     ,,:::::::::::::::::::=                                  :3               ,,::::::::::::::4............
                                                                                                                                    9 ,::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                               ......                                                7.....6 ,::    :::::::::::::3;..
                                                                                                                                                                                                    :,:::::::::::::                   2...  :5::5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ....               ,,,,,,---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,0-:,-----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  o0-,,,,,,,,,,,,,              ,,.....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ....,,",  ::,O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .,,,.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -    -,......................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "'A -- O -...   --............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :::::::::M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -       -      -     -....-   ........     ------   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Cr--,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ..........................       '' ,,........             .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     , "",           q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,-..  Q---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ..
  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .:
                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                              -),                                                                                                                                                  -                                          I                                    ::
                                        mCFP                                                                             43                                                     475                                              -')- 500                                                        0.40                                              M0110111CI                                                                         39                                     :
               --
               --     ......                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       %-,;
               -,,,-CCI-U
                      ......                                   IC,111                                                    43 )                                                   475                                             430 00                                                           0,62                                           M0110111el"                                                                           79                           -,,:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -1
  1--%-,
                                        (-,Vpet                                                                          415                                                    477                                              35,000                                                          0.51                                           M0110111el"                                                                           53                                     :::
                                               I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :
                      ,                                                                                                                                                         489                                             44,000                                                           0.14                                               Tcti-mici-                                                                        -)I I ,::;
  [,--iiiiA m CyI iii                                                                   1                                458                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :
  '1M idoi-I-Ishi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ::
                                                                                                                         472                                                    495                                              27,100                                                          0.90                                                    Dimei-                                                                       73                                       ::
   Wvail                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           :
   I - - --.....................................................
                                                    P l :------- :::::::::::::::::::::::::: ----------                                                             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","","",                                     ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.....................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .......        - - - - - - - - - - ........                                                                             ,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,-...              , ::
               :M
               -..............   - TF -......              ,------- ::::: -2: :-,,,,,,                                                                                                                        ...............              -----:,,,,,,,,,,,,,       ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - - --0 A                    -----                   .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - ::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......                ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,,........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,,,,:"                                          .........            ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ........................                             ........
               -----
               -,,,,,,,,,,,,            ,,. :,::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                         ............................                                , , 46
                                                                                                                          , ,,   , ""","",", , ,,,,,,,,,,,,""","
                                                                                                                                                            ,...
                                                                                                                                                            ....
                                                                                                                                                              ,  ,  :,:,:,:,::
                                                                                                                                                                    ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,'a
                                                                                                                                                                         , ,  ,,-,,92:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,......
                                                                                                                                                                                      , , ,  ,""",""",,        , , , , ,,  ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , ,  , 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , , , M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            , , , ,  ,0,, ,,,-----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I-_0       , ,, , ,   ,  ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -------- ,  ,  , , , ,, ,, , 85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , ,  , ,  , -------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,                  --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          .......'M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......  ,, ,o,,nOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -------- , ,,  , , , ,, ,  , Or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,  ,, ,   .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              "","""""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .......    ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   , , , ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -------  , ,1:62:-,,,,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,   , , ,, -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,  , ,  ,,,,,,-,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      , ,,,-,,,,,,....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ""',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,
                      (T                                                                                            ---
                                                                                                                     ................
                                                                                                                     , ,  , ,      ,.......
                                                                                                                                     ,  ,, ,  ,
                                                                                                                                    ""","","",,  , ,   ,,
                                                                                                                                                        , ,,,,, ,,,,,, ,,,,,, ,
                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                 , ,,
                                                                                                                                                                                    ,,,,,,    """,,""",
                                                                                                                                                                                                    """,""",,  , , , , ,,, ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,,, ,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,  , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,,,,, , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ScM,  ,   ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ........    , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ",""","",   ,  , ,   ,  ,  , , , ,,,  , ,,  ,  ,,   , , , ,  , -,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ""","",",   ................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         """,","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,  ,, ,, , ,,  , , ,,  , , , ,, ,  , ,  ,, , ""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ""","",",          ,  ,  ,  , , ,  ,  , , ,   , , ,, ,  , ,  , ,          ""',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   , , 'I
                      ----- ""","",""                       ----------
                                                        ""","",""     ,-,,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                        , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   ,  , , ........
                                                                                                           , ,   ,,
                                                                                                                    - - --....................
                                                                                                                    , ,  , ,             ........         ,,,,,,,,,y,,,-A-......
                                                                                                                                                       -,-------
                                                                                                                                         ...........................                             -""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                           1-......
                                                                                                                                                                                             ,.
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,.,.             ,X,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                   .,-,,...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                          ,,""","",,""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -  .........,,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,-,,,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ...........................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             P       t                    """,,                 ,,,,,,,""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,........          -,""","","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,..................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - -,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,-,,,""","","",  ""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,,-,,.....  .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    "",""",",      ,  , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - - -......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ,  , , ,   , , ,, , , ,  ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,-,,""',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ---
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         , ,  , ,   ,...
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,"',,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,"",
               ..............
               ,,,,,,,,,,,,--                           ........                                            .......                                                                                                      fi     .....                                                 -                  m         g      -                   ,, """,",   , ,,                 ,                    ,  ,  ,  ,  , -""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -       -   ,   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , , ,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            , ,  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 , ,  , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        , ,  , -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               , , "  ',
               ,..............
                ,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,,,-,,,,-,,""",""""  ""","",""
                                                        ........
                                                        ,""","",",    ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",:
                                                        ..............................
                                                      ""","",",                                            ,.......
                                                                                                             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                           ,-,-,,-,-,,-,...............
                                                                                                                                  - -""","",",             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-j           ,,,,,-,,,-""","",",- - --------  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""",""",,
                                                                                                                                                           ,,-,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,.....................................................                             ,,,,,,,--------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......               ...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ""","","","",""","                        ,,,,-,,,    ,,,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,,,,""",","""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .......   ,""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",,""
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ----------
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ""","","",
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ........    ,,,,,,,-----
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.......         ,--
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,,',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ,'I        ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                ,---        ,......
                               ,,--,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,-,,,-,,-,,,-,,,-,,""","",",                                                        ""","",",                                                      .......
                                                                                                                                                                                              ,,,""","",",                                                                                                                          ......                                                 ,,,,""","","",                  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",
                 :-......               EY,FP,..i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:S                                      1:4 :i:ii:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i
                                                                                                                                                 ...............   i i  i i i i i5   2      7
                                                                                                                                                                               ---- ,"',......   i i    ii  i i                  g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                :,:::::::: : : ::: ,  3        :i4    O,,,Q      i ....
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ii i i   :i:i:i:i:i:j:j:j:O  ,   ,.   Oy:j:j       "   :,:::...    ,  ,   ,,M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,       onom.                   , cr,*,    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 :  :  :  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          :  :  :  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   :  : -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        :  :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ----------------  : : l:.5,   ,-:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -,,,,,,,,---,       ---,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -,,,,
   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ::
                             Toliaz                                                                                      514                                                     52)        7                                    94,500                                                          0.60                                           M0110111ei-*                                                                       169                                           ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   156                             %-,;
                      ,......                                                                                            515                                                     52                                              9')")00                                                         0,57                                           Moi-iomei-                                                                                                         ,-,'
   FiiiiVeil ,Li's                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ::
                              11W Iti,111C                                                                               516                                                     529                                             77,000                                                          0.76                                              M0110111ei-                                                                     174                                             ::
                 :, ),Pet                                                                                                517                                                     510                                           104,000                                                           0.77                                           M0110111CI-*                                                                     118     -,) ,:-I                  %-,;
                                                                                                                           ......
                              PhiYFP                                                                                     52 5                                                    537                                           124,000                                                           0.39                                           M0110111ei-*                                                                       144                                              :::
   I,..............                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                       :
                              ,,,,,,,.......          ..........
                                                        .......
                                           ,,,,,""",""",",
                                                      ""","","",        , , , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   ,  , ,
                                                                        ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","""",  ,  ,, , ,  , , , ,  , , ,  ,  .......
                                                                                                                                          ........
                                                                                                                                          ""","",",       , , ,  , , ,  , , , , ,,  ,, , ,
                                                                                                                                                          ,,,,,,,,::::,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","",",, ,, , ,    .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ........      , ,, , ,  ,,    ,, , , , , , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,-........  , , , , ,,.......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                .......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,, , , ,   ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                , ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ,   ,  ,  , , , ,,,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ""","","","",""",",,,  ,  ,,   , ,  ,,          ,,,,,,,,,,,,...............
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ........                 ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""","","
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ,,-.................................                           ..........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ""","","          , , ,......
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,,,,--,--,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,      ..............           , ,                          lI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                 -,,,,,,
                       ,,,,,,,,......
                 -,,,,,,--%--              ,,,,::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::                                 -----                          ...              o:     ::::::::::::::,:                                               -    -        -     ...............%               -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ------               %-               -,,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c am e:r,,................           , ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,  ,  , , ,              ----- %,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ............  ......
                                                                            :1       ,
                                                                                     -  ,  ,  ,
                                                                                              -  ,   ,-,   ,,
                                                                                                            -   , ,,
                                                                                                                   - , , 5,,,2,,9,........   ..............
                                                                                                                                         ...........     -,,,,,,,,-
                                                                                                                                                           ------                5  3     , X:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::     ,,,) 0::200:::::::::::::::QA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       , ;,     ,,,,,-          :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .......                                        2:       ,:,:,                  ""","T  ---------                                 , ,  ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ........  ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,  ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -------- , , ,   2:5,,,,,,,,,,,,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ,,,,,,,,,,,,            ,
                 Z                  w           d        l"                       ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   , ,   ,,   , ,, , ,
                                                                                              ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,""",,""",,  , ,,   , , ..........         -,,,,,,,,,,,,,              .................
                                                                                                                                                                                   ,,,,, ,,,,,,,                      ------                              .. .........
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,,,,,""","","",  -,,,       .............................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,-...                    -,,,-,""","","",          ,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,-,,,-,"""",""",,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - - ...............                                 ........................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - - ...............,,,,,,,,,,,,,-,,,-,,,-,"",I                                    :
   I                                                                                                                                    .........................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I-1                                          :::
                                        i-ift mamt                                                                       540                                                     553                                              6,000                                                            0.7                                             M0110111ci-                                                                                                                         ::
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ::
   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -24-

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
                             Orange and Red Fluorescent Proteins
         Kusabira       548       559        51,600      (0.60    Monomer          92
      Orange
      mOrange           548       562       71,000       0.69     Monomer        146
         dTomato        554       581        69,000      0.69       Dimer        142
       dlomato-         554       581       138,000      0.69     Monomer        283
      Tandem
       DsRed            558       583        75,000      0.79     Tetramer       176
       DsRed2           563       582       43,800       0.55     Tetramer         72
         DsRed
             Ds~d-      556       586        35,000      0.10     Monomer          10
      Monomer
      mTangerine        568       585        38,000      0.30     Monomer          34
      mStrawberry       574       596        90,000      0.29     Monomer          78
         AsRed2         576       592        56;200      0.05     Tetramer          8
      mRFPJ             584       607        50,000      0.25     Monomer          37
         JRed           584       610       44,000       0.20       Dimer          26
         mCherry        587       610        72,000      0.22     Monomer          47
       HcRedi           588       618       20,000      0.015       Dimer           I
      mRaspberry        598       625        86,000      0.15     Monomer          38
       HcRed
           Tandem590              637       160,000      0.04     Monomer          19
      mPlum             590       649       41,000       0.10     Monomer          12
         AQ 143         595       655        90,000      0.04     Tetramer         11l
V.       Vector Construction and Delivery
         [00891 In certain embodiments, reprogramming vectors could be viral vectors, for
example, retroviral vectors or lentiviral vectors to express these reprogramming factors in
cells. The novel features of these methods are use of polycistronic transcripts as described
above, which will facilitate selection of transformed cells and induced pluripotent cells.
Details of construction of these vectors and delivery methods are disclosed below.
                                               - 25 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
        A.      Vector
        [0090] One of skill in the art would be well equipped to construct a vector through
standard recombinant techniques (see, for example, Sambrook et al., 2001 and Ausubel et al.,
1996, both incorporated herein by reference).            Vectors include but are not limited to,
plasmids, cosmids, viruses (bacteriophage, animal viruses, and plant viruses), and artificial
chromosomes (e.g., YACs), such as retroviral vectors (e.g. derived from Moloney murine
leukemia virus vectors (MoMLV), MSCV, SFFV, MPSV, SNV etc), lentiviral vectors (e.g.
derived from HIV-1, HIV-2, SIV, BIV, FIV etc.), adenoviral (Ad) vectors including
replication competent, replication deficient and gutless forms thereof, adeno-associated viral
(AAV) vectors, simian virus 40 (SV-40) vectors, bovine papilloma virus vectors, Epstein
Barr virus, herpes virus vectors, vaccinia virus vectors, Harvey murine sarcoma virus vectors,
murine mammary tumor virus vectors, Rous sarcoma virus vectors.
        [0091] In one preferred approach, the vector is a viral vector. In particular, retroviral
and lentiviral vectors have been successfully used in reprogramming somatic cells. Viral
vectors can efficiently transduce cells and introduce their own DNA into a host cell. In
generating recombinant viral vectors, non-essential genes are typically replaced with a gene
or coding sequence for a heterologous (or non-native) protein.
        [0092] Viral vectors are a kind of expression construct that utilizes viral sequences to
introduce nucleic acid and possibly proteins into a cell. The ability of certain viruses to infect
cells or enter cells via receptor-mediated endocytosis, and to integrate into host cell genome
and express viral genes stably and efficiently have made them attractive candidates for the
transfer of foreign nucleic acids into cells (e.g., mammalian cells). Non-limiting examples of
virus vectors that may be used to deliver a polycistronic transcript of the present invention are
described below.
                a.      Retroviral Vectors
        [0093] Retroviruses have promise as gene delivery vectors due to their ability to
integrate their genes into the host genome, transferring a large amount of foreign genetic
material, infecting a broad spectrum of species and cell types and of being packaged in
special cell-lines (Miller, 1992).
                                                  - 26 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                            PCT/US2009/053403
         [0094] In order to construct a retroviral vector, a nucleic acid is inserted into the viral
genome in the place of certain viral sequences to produce a virus that is replication-defective.
In order to produce virions, a packaging cell line containing the gag, pol, and env genes but
without the LTR and packaging components is constructed (Mann et al., 1983).               When a
recombinant plasmid containing a cDNA, together with the retroviral LTR and packaging
sequences is introduced into a special cell line (e.g., by calcium phosphate precipitation for
example), the packaging sequence allows the RNA transcript of the recombinant plasmid to
be packaged into viral particles, which are then secreted into the culture media (Nicolas and
Rubenstein, 1988; Temin, 1986; Mann et al., 1983). The media containing the recombinant
retroviruses is then collected, optionally concentrated, and used for gene transfer. Retroviral
vectors are able to infect a broad variety of cell types.       However, integration and stable
expression require the division of host cells (Paskind et al., 1975).
                b.      Lentiviral Vectors
         [0095] Lentiviruses are complex retroviruses, which, in addition to the common
retroviral genes gag,pol, and env, contain other genes with regulatory or structural function.
Lentiviral vectors are well known in the art (see, for example, Naldini et al., 1996; Zufferey
et al., 1997; Blomer et al., 1997; U.S. Patents 6,013,516 and 5,994,136).
         [0096] Recombinant lentiviral vectors are capable of infecting non-dividing cells and
can be used for both in vivo and ex vivo gene transfer and expression of nucleic acid
sequences.    For example, recombinant lentivirus capable of infecting a non-dividing cell
wherein a suitable host cell is transfected with two or more vectors carrying the packaging
functions, namely gag, pol and env, as well as rev and tat is described in U.S. Patent
5,994,136, incorporated herein by reference.
         B.     Regulatory Elements:
         [0097]     Vectors can also comprise other components or functionalities that further
modulate gene delivery and/or gene expression, or that otherwise provide beneficial
properties to the targeted cells. Such other components include, for example, components that
influence binding or targeting to cells (including components that mediate cell-type or tissue
                                                 - 27 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
specific binding); components that influence uptake of the vector nucleic acid by the cell;
components that influence localization of the polynucleotide within the cell after uptake (such
as agents mediating nuclear localization); and components that influence expression of the
polynucleotide.
         [0098] Eukaryotic expression cassettes included in the vectors preferably contain (in a
5'-to-3' direction) a eukaryotic transcriptional promoter operably linked to a protein-coding
sequence,     splice   signals   including   intervening   sequences,   and     a   transcriptional
termination/polyadenylation sequence.
                 a.      Promoter/Enhancers
         [0099] A "promoter" is a control sequence that is a region of a nucleic acid sequence
at which initiation and rate of transcription are controlled. It may contain genetic elements at
which regulatory proteins and molecules may bind, such as RNA polymerase and other
transcription factors, to initiate the specific transcription a nucleic acid sequence.          The
phrases    "operatively positioned,"     "operatively  linked,"  "under control,"      and "under
transcriptional control" mean that a promoter is in a correct functional location and/or
orientation in relation to a nucleic acid sequence to control transcriptional initiation and/or
expression of that sequence.
         [00100]     A promoter generally comprises a sequence that functions to position the
start site for RNA synthesis. The best known example of this is the TATA box, but in some
promoters lacking a TATA box, such as, for example, the promoter for the mammalian
terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase gene and the promoter for the SV40 late genes, a
discrete element overlying the start site itself helps to fix the place of initiation. Additional
promoter elements regulate the frequency of transcriptional initiation. Typically, these are
located in the region 30-110 bp upstream of the start site, although a number of promoters
have been shown to contain functional elements downstream of the start site as well. To
bring a coding sequence "under the control of' a promoter, one positions the 5' end of the
transcription initiation site of the transcriptional reading frame "downstream" of (i.e., 3' of)
the chosen promoter.      The "upstream" promoter stimulates transcription of the DNA and
promotes expression of the encoded RNA.
                                                 - 28-

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
        [00101]    The spacing between promoter elements frequently is flexible, so that
promoter function is preserved when elements are inverted or moved relative to one another.
In the tk promoter, the spacing between promoter elements can be increased to 50 bp apart
before activity begins to decline.    Depending on the promoter, it appears that individual
elements can function either cooperatively or independently to activate transcription.        A
promoter may or may not be used in conjunction with an "enhancer," which refers to a cis
acting regulatory sequence involved in the transcriptional activation of a nucleic acid
sequence.
        [00102]    A promoter may be one naturally associated with a nucleic acid sequence,
as may be obtained by isolating the 5' non-coding sequences located upstream of the coding
segment and/or exon. Such a promoter can be referred to as "endogenous."           Similarly, an
enhancer may be one naturally associated with a nucleic acid sequence, located either
downstream or upstream of that sequence. Alternatively, certain advantages will be gained
by positioning the coding nucleic acid segment under the control of a recombinant or
heterologous promoter, which refers to a promoter that is not normally associated with a
nucleic acid sequence in its natural environment. A recombinant or heterologous enhancer
refers also to an enhancer not normally associated with a nucleic acid sequence in its natural
environment.    Such promoters or enhancers may include promoters or enhancers of other
genes, and promoters or enhancers isolated from any other virus, or prokaryotic or eukaryotic
cell, and promoters or enhancers not "naturally occurring," i.e., containing different elements
of different transcriptional regulatory regions, and/or mutations that alter expression.     For
example, promoters that are most commonly used in recombinant DNA construction include
the p-lactamase (penicillinase), lactose and tryptophan (trp) promoter systems. In addition to
producing nucleic acid sequences of promoters and enhancers synthetically, sequences may
be produced using recombinant cloning and/or nucleic acid amplification technology,
including PCRTM, in connection with the compositions disclosed herein (see U.S. Patent Nos.
4,683,202 and 5,928,906, each incorporated herein by reference).            Furthermore, it is
contemplated the control sequences that direct transcription and/or expression of sequences
within non-nuclear organelles such as mitochondria, chloroplasts, and the like, can be
employed as well.
                                                - 29 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                       PCT/US2009/053403
        [00103]    Naturally, it will be important to employ a promoter and/or enhancer that
effectively directs the expression of the DNA segment in the organelle, cell type, tissue,
organ, or organism chosen for expression.      Those of skill in the art of molecular biology
generally know the use of promoters, enhancers, and cell type combinations for protein
expression, (see, for example Sambrook et al. 1989, incorporated herein by reference). The
promoters employed may be constitutive, tissue-specific, inducible, and/or useful under the
appropriate conditions to direct high level expression of the introduced DNA segment, such
as is advantageous in the large-scale production of recombinant proteins and/or peptides. The
promoter may be heterologous or endogenous.
        [00104]    Additionally any promoter/enhancer combination (as per, for example, the
Eukaryotic Promoter Data Base EPDB, http://www.epd.isb-sib.ch/) could also be used to
drive expression. Use of a T3, T7 or SP6 cytoplasmic expression system is another possible
embodiment. Eukaryotic cells can support cytoplasmic transcription from certain bacterial
promoters if the appropriate bacterial polymerase is provided, either as part of the delivery
complex or as an additional genetic expression construct.
        [00105]    Non-limiting examples of promoters include early or late viral promoters,
such as, SV40 early or late promoters, cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate early promoters,
Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV) early promoters; eukaryotic cell promoters, such as, e. g., beta
actin promoter (Ng, 1989, Quitsche et al., 1989), GADPH promoter (Alexander et al., 1988,
Ercolani et al., 1988), metallothionein promoter (Karin et al., 1989; Richards et al., 1984);
and concatenated response element promoters, such as cyclic AMP response element
promoters (cre), serum response element promoter (sre), phorbol ester promoter (TPA) and
response element promoters (tre) near a minimal TATA box. It is also possible to use human
growth hormone promoter sequences (e.g., the human growth hormone minimal promoter
described at Genbank, accession no. X05244, nucleotide 283-341) or a mouse mammary
tumor promoter (available from the ATCC, Cat. No. ATCC 45007). A specific example
could be a phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) promoter.
                                               - 30 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
                b.      Initiation Signals
        [00106]    A specific initiation signal also may be required for efficient translation of
coding sequences.     These signals include the ATG initiation codon or adjacent sequences.
Exogenous translational control signals, including the ATG initiation codon, may need to be
provided. One of ordinary skill in the art would readily be capable of determining this and
providing the necessary signals. It is well known that the initiation codon must be "in-frame"
with the reading frame of the desired coding sequence to ensure translation of the entire
insert. The exogenous translational control signals and initiation codons can be either natural
or synthetic. The efficiency of expression may be enhanced by the inclusion of appropriate
transcription enhancer elements.
                c.      Multiple Cloning Sites
        [00107]    Vectors can include a multiple cloning site (MCS), which is a nucleic acid
region that contains multiple restriction enzyme sites, any of which can be used in
conjunction with standard recombinant technology to digest the vector (see, for example,
Carbonelli et al., 1999, Levenson et al., 1998, and Cocea, 1997, incorporated herein by
reference.)   "Restriction enzyme digestion" refers to catalytic cleavage of a nucleic acid
molecule with an enzyme that functions only at specific locations in a nucleic acid molecule.
Many of these restriction enzymes are commercially available.          Use of such enzymes is
widely understood by those of skill in the art.           Frequently, a vector is linearized or
fragmented using a restriction enzyme that cuts within the MCS to enable exogenous
sequences to be ligated to the vector.           "Ligation" refers to the process of forming
phosphodiester bonds between two nucleic acid fragments, which may or may not be
contiguous with each other. Techniques involving restriction enzymes and ligation reactions
are well known to those of skill in the art of recombinant technology.
                d.      Splicing Sites
        [00108]    Most transcribed eukaryotic RNA molecules will undergo RNA splicing to
remove introns from the primary transcripts.           Vectors containing genomic eukaryotic
sequences may require donor and/or acceptor splicing sites to ensure proper processing of the
                                                 -31 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
transcript for protein expression (see, for example, Chandler et al., 1997, herein incorporated
by reference.)
                e.      Termination Signals
        [00109]     The vectors or constructs of the present invention may comprise at least
one termination signal. A "termination signal" or "terminator" is comprised of the DNA
sequences involved in specific termination of an RNA transcript by an RNA polymerase.
Thus, in certain embodiments a termination signal that ends the production of an RNA
transcript is contemplated.     A terminator may be necessary in vivo to achieve desirable
message levels.
        [00110]     In eukaryotic systems, the terminator region may also comprise specific
DNA sequences that permit site-specific cleavage of the new transcript so as to expose a
polyadenylation site. This signals a specialized endogenous polymerase to add a stretch of
about 200 A residues (polyA) to the 3' end of the transcript. RNA molecules modified with
this polyA tail appear to more stable and are translated more efficiently. Thus, in other
embodiments involving eukaryotes, it is preferred that that terminator comprises a signal for
the cleavage of the RNA, and it is more preferred that the terminator signal promotes
polyadenylation of the message. The terminator and/or polyadenylation site elements can
serve to enhance message levels and to minimize read through from the cassette into other
sequences.
        [00111]     Terminators contemplated for use in the invention include any known
terminator of transcription described herein or known to one of ordinary skill in the art,
including but not limited to, for example, the termination sequences of genes, such as for
example the bovine growth hormone terminator or viral termination sequences, such as for
example the SV40 terminator. In certain embodiments, the termination signal may be a lack
of transcribable or translatable sequence, such as due to a sequence truncation.
                f.      Polyadenylation Signals
        [00112]     In expression, particularly eukaryotic expression, one will typically
include a polyadenylation signal to effect proper polyadenylation of the transcript.        The
                                               - 32 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
nature of the polyadenylation signal is not believed to be crucial to the successful practice of
the invention, and any such sequence may be employed. Preferred embodiments include the
SV40 polyadenylation signal or the bovine growth hormone polyadenylation signal,
convenient and known to function well in various target cells. Polyadenylation may increase
the stability of the transcript or may facilitate cytoplasmic transport.
        C.       Vector Delivery
        [00113]      Introduction of a reprogramming vector into somatic cells with the current
invention may use any suitable methods for nucleic acid delivery for transformation of a cell,
as described herein or as would be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such methods
include, but are not limited to, direct delivery of DNA such as by ex vivo transfection
(Wilson et al., 1989, Nabel et al, 1989), by injection (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,994,624, 5,981,274,
5,945,100, 5,780,448, 5,736,524, 5,702,932, 5,656,610, 5,589,466 and 5,580,859, each
incorporated herein by reference), including microinjection (Harland and Weintraub, 1985;
U.S. Patent No. 5,789,215, incorporated herein by reference); by electroporation (U.S. Patent
No. 5,384,253, incorporated herein by reference; Tur-Kaspa et al., 1986; Potter et al., 1984);
by calcium phosphate precipitation (Graham and Van Der Eb, 1973; Chen and Okayama,
1987; Rippe et al., 1990); by using DEAE-dextran followed by polyethylene glycol (Gopal,
1985); by direct sonic loading (Fechheimer et al., 1987); by liposome mediated transfection
(Nicolau and Sene,        1982; Fraley et al., 1979; Nicolau et al., 1987; Wong et al.,    1980;
Kaneda et al., 1989; Kato et al., 1991) and receptor-mediated transfection (Wu and Wu,
1987; Wu and Wu, 1988); by microprojectile bombardment (PCT Application Nos. WO
94/09699 and 95/06128; U.S. Patent Nos. 5,610,042; 5,322,783, 5,563,055, 5,550,318,
5,538,877 and 5,538,880, and each incorporated herein by reference); by agitation with
silicon carbide fibers (Kaeppler et al., 1990; U.S. Patent Nos. 5,302,523 and 5,464,765, each
incorporated herein by reference); by Agrobacterium-mediatedtransformation (U.S. Patent
Nos. 5,591,616 and 5,563,055, each incorporated herein by reference); by PEG-mediated
transformation of protoplasts (Omirulleh et al., 1993; U.S. Patent Nos. 4,684,611 and
4,952,500, each incorporated herein by reference); by desiccation/inhibition-mediated DNA
uptake (Potrykus et al., 1985),     and any combination of such methods.          Through the
                                                  - 33 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
application of techniques such as these, organelle(s), cell(s), tissue(s) or organism(s) may be
stably or transiently transformed.
                 a.      Liposome-Mediated Transfection
         [00114]    In a certain embodiment of the invention, a nucleic acid may be entrapped
in a lipid complex such as, for example, a liposome.       Liposomes are vesicular structures
characterized    by a phospholipid bilayer membrane and an inner aqueous medium.
Multilamellar liposomes have multiple lipid layers separated by aqueous medium. They form
spontaneously when phospholipids are suspended in an excess of aqueous solution. The lipid
components undergo self-rearrangement before the formation of closed structures and entrap
water and dissolved solutes between the lipid bilayers (Ghosh and Bachhawat, 1991). Also
contemplated is a nucleic acid complexed with Lipofectamine (Gibco BRL) or Superfect
(Qiagen). The amount of liposomes used may vary upon the nature of the liposome as well as
the , cell used, for example, about 5 to about 20 tg vector DNA per 1 to 10 million of cells
may be contemplated.
         [00115]    Liposome-mediated nucleic acid delivery and expression of foreign DNA
in vitro   has   been    very  successful  (Nicolau   and    Sene,    1982;   Fraley et al., 1979;
Nicolau et al., 1987).    The feasibility of liposome-mediated delivery and expression of
foreign DNA in cultured chick embryo, HeLa and hepatoma cells has also been demonstrated
(Wong et al., 1980).
         [00116]    In certain embodiments of the invention, a liposome may be complexed
with a hemagglutinating virus (HVJ). This has been shown to facilitate fusion with the cell
membrane and promote cell entry of liposome-encapsulated DNA (Kaneda et al., 1989). In
other embodiments, a liposome may be complexed or employed in conjunction with nuclear
non-histone chromosomal proteins (HMG-1) (Kato et al., 1991). In yet further embodiments,
a liposome may be complexed or employed in conjunction with both HVJ and HMG-1. In
other embodiments, a delivery vehicle may comprise a ligand and a liposome.
                                               - 34 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
                b.     Electroporation
        [00117]    In certain embodiments of the present invention, a nucleic acid is
introduced into a cell via electroporation.     Electroporation involves the exposure of a
suspension of cells and DNA to a high-voltage electric discharge. Recipient cells can be
made more susceptible to transformation by mechanical wounding.            Also the amount of
vectors used may vary upon the nature of the cells used, for example, about 5 to about 20 tg
vector DNA per 1 to 10 million of cells may be contemplated.
        [00118]    Transfection of eukaryotic cells using electroporation has been quite
successful.    Mouse     pre-B    lymphocytes     have   been     transfected    with   human
kappa-immunoglobulin genes (Potter et al., 1984), and rat hepatocytes have been transfected
with the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene (Tur-Kaspa et al., 1986) in this manner.
                c.     Calcium Phosphate
        [00119]    In other embodiments of the present invention, a nucleic acid is introduced
to the cells using calcium phosphate precipitation. Human KB cells have been transfected
with adenovirus 5 DNA (Graham and Van Der Eb, 1973) using this technique. Also in this
manner, mouse L(A9), mouse C127, CHO, CV-1, BHK, NIH3T3 and HeLa cells were
transfected with a neomycin marker gene (Chen and Okayama, 1987), and rat hepatocytes
were transfected with a variety of marker genes (Rippe et al., 1990).
                d.     DEAE-Dextran
        [00120]    In another embodiment, a nucleic acid is delivered into a cell using
DEAE-dextran followed by polyethylene glycol.        In this manner, reporter plasmids were
introduced into mouse myeloma and erythroleukemia cells (Gopal, 1985).
                e.     Sonication Loading
        [00121]    Additional embodiments of the present invention include the introduction
of a nucleic acid by direct sonic loading. LTK- fibroblasts have been transfected with the
thymidine kinase gene by sonication loading (Fechheimer et al., 1987).
                                              - 35 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                            PCT/US2009/053403
                f.      Receptor Mediated Transfection
        [00122]     Still further, a nucleic acid may be delivered to a target cell via
receptor-mediated delivery vehicles.        These take advantage of the selective uptake of
macromolecules by receptor-mediated endocytosis that will be occurring in a target cell. In
view of the cell type-specific distribution of various receptors, this delivery method adds
another degree of specificity to the present invention.
        [00123]     Certain receptor-mediated       gene targeting     vehicles comprise    a cell
receptor-specific   ligand and a nucleic acid-binding agent.             Others comprise a cell
receptor-specific ligand to which the nucleic acid to be delivered has been operatively
attached. Several ligands have been used for receptor-mediated gene transfer (Wu and Wu,
1987; Wagner et al., 1990; Perales et al., 1994; Myers, EPO 0273085), which establishes the
operability of the technique. Specific delivery in the context of another mammalian cell type
has been described (Wu and Wu, 1993; incorporated herein by reference). In certain aspects
of the present invention, a ligand will be chosen to correspond to a receptor specifically
expressed on the target cell population.
        [00124]     In other embodiments, a nucleic acid delivery vehicle component of a
cell-specific nucleic acid targeting vehicle may comprise a specific binding ligand in
combination with a liposome.        The nucleic acid(s) to be delivered are housed within the
liposome and the specific binding ligand is functionally incorporated into the liposome
membrane. The liposome will thus specifically bind to the receptor(s) of a target cell and
deliver the contents to a cell. Such systems have been shown to be functional using systems
in which, for example, epidermal growth factor (EGF) is used in the receptor-mediated
delivery of a nucleic acid to cells that exhibit upregulation of the EGF receptor.
        [00125]     In still further embodiments, the nucleic acid delivery vehicle component
of a targeted delivery vehicle may be a liposome itself, which will preferably comprise one or
more    lipids   or   glycoproteins    that  direct    cell-specific   binding.    For   example,
lactosyl-ceramide,    a galactose-terminal    asialganglioside,     have been incorporated    into
liposomes and observed an increase in the uptake of the insulin gene by hepatocytes
                                                  -36 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
(Nicolau et al., 1987). It is contemplated that the tissue-specific transforming constructs of
the present invention can be specifically delivered into a target cell in a similar manner.
                 g.     Microprojectile Bombardment
         [00126]    Microprojectile bombardment techniques can be used to introduce a
nucleic acid into at least one, organelle, cell, tissue or organism (U.S. Patent No. 5,550,318;
U.S. Patent No. 5,538,880; U.S. Patent No. 5,610,042; and PCT Application WO 94/09699;
each of which is incorporated herein by reference).       This method depends on the ability to
accelerate DNA-coated microprojectiles to a high velocity allowing them to pierce cell
membranes and enter cells without killing them (Klein et al., 1987). There are a wide variety
of microprojectile bombardment techniques known in the art, many of which are applicable
to the invention.
         [00127]    In this microprojectile bombardment, one or more particles may be coated
with at least one nucleic acid and delivered into cells by a propelling force. Several devices
for accelerating small particles have been developed.         One such device relies on a high
voltage discharge to generate an electrical current, which in turn provides the motive force
(Yang et al., 1990). The microprojectiles used have consisted of biologically inert substances
such as tungsten or gold particles or beads. Exemplary particles include those comprised of
tungsten, platinum, and preferably, gold. It is contemplated that in some instances DNA
precipitation onto metal particles would not be necessary for DNA delivery to a recipient cell
using microprojectile bombardment. However, it is contemplated that particles may contain
DNA rather than be coated with DNA. DNA-coated particles may increase the level of DNA
delivery via particle bombardment but are not, in and of themselves, necessary.
         [00128]    For the bombardment, cells in suspension are concentrated on filters or
solid culture medium. Alternatively, immature embryos or other target cells may be arranged
on solid culture medium. The cells to be bombarded are positioned at an appropriate distance
below the macroprojectile stopping plate.
                                                 - 37 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
VI.     Selection of iPS cells
        [00129]     In certain aspects of the invention, after a reprogramming vector is
introduced into somatic cells, these cells will be cultured for expansion.      Cells could be
selected for the presence of vector elements like reporters or selection markers to concentrate
transfected cells. Reprogramming vectors will express reprogramming factors in these cells
and replicate and partition along with cell division. These expressed reprogramming factors
will reprogram somatic cell genome to establish a self-sustaining pluripotent state, and in the
meantime or after removal of positive selection of the presence of vectors, exogenous genetic
elements will be lost gradually. This silencing of transgene expression permit selection of
induced pluripotent stem cells for tuning off reporter gene expression alone or in combination
with selection for other embryonic stem cell characteristics because they are expected to be
substantially identical to pluripotent embryonic stem cells.
        A.      Selection for reporter gene expression
        [00130]     Cells introduced with a reprogramming vector in this invention could
express a reporter and a reprogramming factor simultaneously and selected for the presence
or absence of reporter gene expression in different time points. For example, cells could be
selected for the presence of reporters and transfection could be optimized by using reporters.
Induced pluripotent stem cells may be screened for the loss of reporters as transgenes are
silenced during reprogramming. Such selection or screen is based on a detectable signal
generated by expression of reporter genes as a indication of transgene expression.
        [00131]     A detectable signal may be generated in any one of a number of ways,
depending on the nature of the reporter gene employed in the method of the invention. For
example, the detectable signal may be a luminescent, such as a fluorescent signal, e.g., GFP.
GFP is a fluorescent polypeptide which produces a fluorescent signal without the need for a
substrate or cofactors. GFP expression and detection techniques are well known in the art,
and kits are available commercially, for example from Clontech. GFP expression may be
assayed in intact cells without the need to lyse them or to add further reagents. Alternatively,
the detectable signal may be a signal generated as a result of enzymatic activity or the
recognition of a cell surface marker, e.g., LNGFR.
                                                - 38 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
         [00132]     Flow cytometry, for example, fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS),
is common to use to select for detectable signals based on reporter gene expression. FACS
provides a method for sorting a heterogeneous mixture of cells into two or more containers,
one cell at a time, based upon the specific light scattering and fluorescent characteristics of
each cell. This provides fast, objective and quantitative recording of fluorescent signals from
individual cells as well as physical separation of induced pluripotent cells.
         [00133]     Luciferase may also be used as a basis for an assay. Luciferase expression
is known in the art, and luciferase expression and detection kits are available commercially
from Clontech (Palo Alto, Calif.). The presence of luciferase is advantageously assessed by
cell lysis and addition of luciferin substrate to the cells, before monitoring for a luminescent
signal by scintillation counting.
         [00134]     Enzyme-based assays are conducted in a manner similar to a luciferase
based assay, except that the detection is not necessarily via luminescence. The detection
technique will depend on the enzyme, and may therefore be optical (such as in the case of
galactosidase).
         [00135]     Physical and biochemical methods may also be used to identify or quantify
expression of the reporter genes of the present invention. These methods include but are not
limited to: 1) Southern analysis or PCR amplification for detecting and determining the
structure of the recombinant DNA insert; 2) northern blot, S-1 RNase protection, primer
extension or reverse transcriptase-PCR amplification for detecting and examining RNA
transcripts of the gene constructs; 3) enzymatic assays for detecting enzyme activity, where
such gene products are encoded by the gene construct; 4) protein gel electrophoresis, western
blot techniques, immunoprecipitation, or enzyme-linked immunoassays, where the gene
construct products are proteins; and 5) biochemical measurements of compounds produced as
a consequence of the expression of the introduced gene constructs. Additional techniques,
such as in situ hybridization, enzyme staining, and immunostaining, also may be used to
detect the presence or expression of the reporter gene in specific cells.
                                                 - 39 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
        B.       Selection for embryonic stem cell characteristics
         [00136]     The successfully generated iPSCs from previous studies were remarkably
similar to naturally-isolated pluripotent stem cells (such as mouse and human embryonic stem
cells, mESCs and hESCs, respectively) in the following respects, thus confirming the
identity, authenticity, and pluripotency of iPSCs to naturally-isolated pluripotent stem cells.
Thus, induced pluripotent stem cells generated from the methods disclosed in this invention
could be selected based on one or more of following embryonic stem cell characteristics in
addition to presence or absence of reporter gene expression.
                 a.      Cellular biological properties
         [00137]     Morphology: iPSCs are morphologically similar to ESCs. Each cell may
have round shape, large nucleolus and scant cytoplasm. Colonies of iPSCs could be also
similar to that of ESCs. Human iPSCs form sharp-edged, flat, tightly-packed colonies similar
to hESCs and mouse iPSCs form the colonies similar to mESCs, less flatter and more
aggregated colonies than that of hESCs.
         [00138]     Growth properties: Doubling time and mitotic activity are cornerstones
of ESCs, as stem cells must self-renew as part of their definition. iPSCs could be mitotically
active, actively self-renewing, proliferating, and dividing at a rate equal to ESCs.
         [00139]     Stem Cell Markers: iPSCs may express cell surface antigenic markers
expressed on ESCs. Human iPSCs expressed the markers specific to hESC, including, but not
limited to, SSEA-3, SSEA-4, TRA-1-60, TRA-1-81, TRA-2-49/6E, and Nanog. Mouse iPSCs
expressed SSEA-1 but not SSEA-3 nor SSEA-4, similarly to mESCs.
         [00140]     Stem Cell Genes: iPSCs may express genes expressed in undifferentiated
ESCs, including Oct-3/4, Sox2, Nanog, GDF3, REXI, FGF4, ESGI, DPPA2, DPPA4, and
hTERT.
         [00141]     Telomerase Activity: Telomerases are necessary to sustain cell division
unrestricted by the Hayflick limit of -50 cell divisions. hESCs express high telomerase
activity to sustain self-renewal and proliferation, and iPSCs also demonstrate high telomerase
                                                 - 40 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                          PCT/US2009/053403
activity and express hTERT           (human telomerase      reverse transcriptase),  a necessary
component in the telomerase protein complex.
        [00142]      Pluripotency: iPSCs will be capable of differentiation in a fashion similar
to ESCs into fully differentiated tissues.
        [00143]      Neural Differentiation: iPSCs could be differentiated into neurons,
expressing     111-tubulin, tyrosine hydroxylase, AADC, DAT, ChAT, LMX1B, and MAP2.
The presence of catecholamine-associated enzymes may indicate that iPSCs, like hESCs,
may be differentiable into dopaminergic neurons. Stem cell-associated genes will be
downregulated after differentiation.
        [00144]      Cardiac      Differentiation:    iPSCs    could   be    differentiated into
cardiomyocytes that spontaneously began beating. Cardiomyocytes expressed TnTc, MEF2C,
MYL2A, MYHC,           and NKX2.5. Stem cell-associated genes will be downregulated after
differentiation.
        [00145]      Teratoma Formation: iPSCs injected into immunodeficient mice may
spontaneously formed teratomas after certain time, such as nine weeks. Teratomas are tumors
of multiple lineages containing tissue derived from the three germ layers endoderm,
mesoderm and ectoderm; this is unlike other tumors, which typically are of only one cell
type. Teratoma formation is a landmark test for pluripotency.
        [00146]      Embryoid Body: hESCs in culture spontaneously form ball-like embryo
like structures termed "embryoid bodies," which consist of a core of mitotically active and
differentiating hESCs and a periphery of fully differentiated cells from all three germ layers.
iPSCs may also form embryoid bodies and have peripheral differentiated cells.
        [00147]      Blastocyst Injection: hESCs naturally reside within the inner cell mass
(embryoblast) of blastocysts, and in the embryoblast, differentiate into the embryo while the
blastocyst's shell (trophoblast) differentiates into extraembryonic tissues. The hollow
trophoblast is unable to form a living embryo, and thus it is necessary for the embryonic stem
cells within the embryoblast to differentiate and form the embryo. iPSCs injected by
micropipette into a trophoblast to generate a blastocyst transferred to recipient females, may
                                                 - 41  -

    WO 2010/019569                                                       PCT/US2009/053403
result in chimeric living mouse pups: mice with iPSC derivatives incorporated all across their
bodies with 10%-90 and chimerism.
                 b.     Epigenetic reprogramming
         [00148]    Promoter Demethylation: Methylation is the transfer of a methyl group
to a DNA base, typically the transfer of a methyl group to a cytosine molecule in a CpG site
(adjacent cytosine/guanine sequence). Widespread methylation of a gene interferes with
expression by preventing the activity of expression proteins or recruiting enzymes that
interfere with expression. Thus, methylation of a gene effectively silences it by preventing
transcription. Promoters of endogenous pluripotency-associated genes, including Oct-3/4,
Rex1, and Nanog, may be demethylated in iPSCs, showing their promoter activity and the
active promotion and expression of pluripotency-associated genes in iPSCs.
         [00149]    Histone Demethylation: Histones are compacting proteins that are
structurally localized to DNA sequences that can effect their activity through various
chromatin-related modifications. H3 histones associated with Oct-3/4, Sox2, and Nanog may
be demethylated to activate the expression of Oct-3/4, Sox2, and Nanog.
VI.      Culturing of iPS cells
         [00150]    After somatic cells are introduced with a reprogramming vector using the
disclosed methods, these cells may be cultured in a medium sufficient to maintain the
pluripotency. Culturing of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells generated in this invention can
use various medium and techniques developed to culture primate pluripotent stem cells, more
specially, embryonic stem cells, as described in U.S. Pat. App. 20070238170 and U.S. Pat.
App.20030211603.
         [00151]    For example, like human embryonic stem (hES) cells, iPS cells can be
maintained in 80% DMEM (Gibco #10829-018 or #11965-092), 20% defined fetal bovine
serum (FBS) not heat inactivated, 1% non-essential amino acids, 1 mM L-glutamine, and 0.1
mM .beta.-mercaptoethanol. Alternatively, ES cells can be maintained in serum-free medium,
made with 80% Knock-Out DMEM (Gibco #10829-018), 20% serum replacement (Gibco
                                                - 42 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                           PCT/US2009/053403
#10828-028),    1% non-essential amino acids, 1 mM L-glutamine, and 0.1 mM .beta.
mercaptoethanol. Just before use, human bFGF is added to a final concentration of .about 4
ng/mL (WO 99/20741).
        [00152]     IPS cells, like ES cells, have characteristic antigens that can be identified
by immunohistochemistry or flow cytometry, using antibodies for SSEA-1, SSEA-3 and
SSEA-4 (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development, Bethesda Md.), and TRA-1-60 and TRA-1-81 (Andrews et al., 1987).
Pluripotency of embryonic stem cells can be confirmed by injecting approximately 0.5-10 10
6 cells into the rear leg muscles of 8-12 week old male SCID mice. Teratomas develop that
demonstrate at least one cell type of each of the three germ layers.
VIII. Examples
        [00153]     The   following    examples     are  included   to   demonstrate   preferred
embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the
techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the
inventor to function well in the practice of the invention, and thus can be considered to
constitute preferred modes for its practice. However, those of skill in the art should, in light
of the present disclosure, appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific
embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing
from the spirit and scope of the invention.
                          Example 1 - Construction of Retroviral Vectors
        [00154]         The parental retroviral vector for which the reprogramming genes and
selection markers were introduced has previously been cited in Kennedy et al. (2003).
Briefly, the minimal vector contains the 5' and 3' MMLV long terminal repeat region (LTR)
in which the 5' LTR contains the promoter used to drive the expression of the genes required
for reprogramming and selection (FIG. 1). Conveniently, there is also a cytomegalovirus
promoter located just upstream of the 5' LTR so that the retroviral plasmids can be used for
                                                - 43 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                       PCT/US2009/053403
transient transfection yet will remain nonfunctional when the plasmid is used as a template
for viral synthesis.
         [001551        As indicated in FIG. 1, Sox-2, Nanog, Oct4, and Lin28 were each
introduced into an MMLV-based retroviral backbone also encoding a fluorescent protein.
Both Sox-2 and Oct4 were placed into retroviral backbones encoding expression for
enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) while Nanog and Lin28 were placed into
backbones competent to express monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP). The translation
of transcripts encoding the genes for reprogramming initiate at a canonical ATG start codon
while the downstream fluorescent protein is translated via an internal ribosome entry site
(IRES) derived from the encephalomyocarditis virus.
                    Example 2 - Generation of Virus using the Retroviral Vectors
         [00156]        The retroviral vectors were used in the following way to generate
virus. First, each of the four retroviral vectors encoding Sox-2, Oct4, Nanog, or Lin-28 were
prepared as separate transfections.     Ten micrograms of each retroviral vector were mixed
separately with DNA encoding Vesicular Stomatitis Virus-pseudotyped glycoprotein (1 pig),
Gag polymerase (3 ug), and NFkB (1 ug).             The DNA was then mixed with 500 ul of
OptiMem. Separately, 40 microliters of polyethylenimine (1 mg/ml) were mixed with 500 tl
OptiMem. The DNA/OptiMem mixture and PEI/OptiMem mixture were then left to incubate
at room temperature for 5 minutes then combined to yield approximately 1 ml of solution that
must be incubated for at least 20 minutes at room temperature.
         [001571        The inventors transfect 293 cells overexpressing the SV40 T-antigen
protein that were split one day prior to transfection at a dilution that allows cells to be
approximately 80 percent confluent on the day of transfection. On the day of transfection,
the cells were washed with 1x PBS and 4 ml of OptiMem or DMEM (serum and antibiotic
free) is then added. Once lypophyllic complexes had formed during the 20 minute incubation
period, the DNA complex (1 ml) was then added dropwise to the cells.          The media was
replaced 4 hours following incubation at 37 0 C with DMEM, 10% fetal bovine or calf serum,
and 50 mM Hepes buffered saline.           Virus was harvested 48 hours post-transfection by
                                                 - 44 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
collecting the 5 ml of media from the transfected plates. The virus-containing media was
then spun down for 5 minutes at 1000 rpm to remove cell debris, and the media is filtered
through a 45 um syringe filter.
                              Example 3 - Infection and Plating of Cells
        [00158]         The procedure involving infection and transition to an environment
that allows for reprogramming to take place occurred following one of two methods. One
method involved infection and plating of infected and uninfected cells onto irradiated MEFs
for reprogramming, and the other method involved plating only infected cells by way of
sorting onto MEFs in an effort to enhance the efficiency of reprogramming.
        Method 1: Reprogramming unsorted IMR-90 cells infected with virus expressing
reprogramminggenes.
        [001591         IMR-90 cells have been used successfully as the recipient host for
infection, but this protocol is adaptable to the infection of alternative cell types such as
primary skin cells and hematopoietic cells. Approximately 50,000 IMR-90 cells were seeded
into each well of a 6-well plate 72 hours prior to infection. An additional plate of cells was
prepared for use in determining the efficiency of infection for each of the viruses.         For
example, one well of cells became the recipient for a single virus rather than multiple viruses.
Infections were performed at a multiplicity of infection (MOI) ranging from 1 to 10 with
virus harvested fresh from transfected 293T cells. The range in MOI is due to the inherent
variability from transfection to transfection for the production of virus.
        [00160]         The infection took place within the 6-well plate by first removing the
media and replacing with an equal volume of each of the four viruses for a final concentration
of approximately 5 x 104 to 1 x 105 cells per ml of medium (i.e., 500 tl for each virus for a
final volume of 2 ml). Cells remained adherent and were placed on a rocking platform at 40 C
for 2 hours and placed at 37 0 C and 5% CO 2 . Alternatively, cells could be placed immediately
into the incubator without a significant effect on the efficiency of infection.      The day of
infection was considered timepoint 0 and every day thereafter considered post-infection.
Infected cells were then incubated for 48 hours at which time cells from each well of a 6-well
                                                - 45 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                      PCT/US2009/053403
plate infected with all four viruses were harvested with 0.2 to 0.5 ml of 0.05% Trypsin
EDTA.      Cells were collected, pooled, and brought to volume with 10 - 15 ml Minimal
Essential Media with 10% FBS (M OF). They were then spun at 1000 rpm for 5 minutes, the
supernatant was removed, and cells were resuspended in 10 ml of MIOF without antibiotic
and plated on top of a monolayer of irradiated mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs).
        [00161]        The MEFs were plated onto a 10 cm plate coated with 0.1% gelatin 3
days prior to the addition of infected IMR-90 cells at a density of approximately 7.5 x 104
cells/ml. The day following MEF plating, the media was removed and replaced with human
ES (hES) media without FGF (80% DMEM-F12; 20% Knock-out Serum Replacer; 1% Non
essential amino acids; 1 mM L-glutamine; 0.1 mM b-mercaptoethanol).          On day 3 after
plating, MEFs were washed once with 1 x PBS (Ca and Mg-free) and infected IMR-90 cells
resuspended in 10 ml MIOF were placed over the MEFs. An overnight incubation allowed
IMR-90 cells to adhere, and the medium was replaced with 10 ml of Conditioned Media
(CM) containing 100 ng/ml of zebrafish FGF (represents 3 days post-infection).      CM was
prepared by incubating hES media on a bed of high-density irradiated MEFs overnight,
collecting, and supplementing with 100 ng/ml zFGF. The infected IMR-90 cells were then
fed daily by replacing the spent media with 10 ml of fresh CM with zFGF.
        Method 2:     Reprogramming sorted IMR-90 cells infected with virus expressing
reprogramminggenes.
        [00162]        Infections were performed as indicated in Method 1 with the exception
that two, complete, 6-well plates were seeded with 5 x 104 IMR-90 cells per well prior to
infection.  A larger pool of infected cells facilitates sorting as well as enhances viability
following sorting.    In preparation for sorting, all wells containing IMR-90 cells were
harvested by trypsin and pooled as indicated in Method 1 3 days post-infection. Pooled cells
were filtered to remove clumps and maintained on ice until sorting.
        [00163]        A FACs DIVA at a pressure of 25 psi with a tip size measuring 10
microns was used to sort selected cells into a 15 ml conical tube containing M20F/5OmM
Hepes buffer. Sorting was based on low to moderate levels of eGFP which correlated with
the levels of Oct4 and Sox-2 expression and low to moderate levels of mRFP correlating with
                                               - 46 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
levels of Nanog and Lin28.        The inventors have also performed this experiment in the
absence of Lin28 in which case cells expressing varying levels of Nanog could be specifically
sorted. The efficiency of reprogramming correlates with increasing amounts of Nanog and
therefore cells expressing moderate to high levels of Nanog, reflected by mRFP intensity,
were sorted.
         [00164]        On average, approximately 85% of IMR-90 cells were infected with
each virus according to the fraction of cells positive for eGFP or mRFP as determined by
FACs and about 3 x 104 to 2 x 105 cells were collected. Cells were maintained on ice and
chilled during sorting until they were plated. On the same day, the sorted cells were brought
to a total volume of 10 ml of MOF then placed on a monolayer of irradiated MEFs plated 1
6 days prior at a density of approximately 7.5 x 104 cells/ml. The cells were cultured on
MEFs in MlOF (no antibiotic) for 3 more days to allow for recovery and attachment post
sorting. (MEFs were prepared as described in Method 1). At 6 days following infection, 10
ml CM supplemented with 100 ng/ml of zebrafish FGF was used in place of M1OF and
replenished daily until reprogrammed colonies formed.
                                Example 4 - Selection of Reprogrammed Cells
         [001651        Reprogrammed cells were initially identified by morphology as well as
a loss of eGFP and mRFP expression. Colonies contained highly compact cells with enlarged
nuclei and multiple nucleoli.       Currently, the inventors have picked colonies within a
timeframe ranging from 20 to 40 days after infection. Colonies were picked by hand and
transferred to a well (48, 24, to 6 well) containing irradiated MEFs (7.5 x 104 cells/ml). They
were left unfed the day following transfer then feeding with CM resumed daily until colonies
expanded in numbers sufficient for splitting and freezing.           iPS clones were further
characterized using cell surface markers (i.e., SSEA 3, SSEA 4, Tra-1-60, SSEA 1, and Oct4)
as well as karyotyped to identify any abnormalities within the chromosomes.
                                                 - 47 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
         [00166]   All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed
without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and
methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be
apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the methods and in the
steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the
concept, spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically, it will be apparent that certain
agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the
agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar
substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the
spirit, scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                                 -48-

   WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
                                      REFERENCES
        The following references, to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or
other details supplementary to those set forth herein, are specifically incorporated herein by
reference.
U.S. Patent 4,683,202
U.S. Patent 4,684,611
U.S. Patent 4,952,500
U.S. Patent 5,302,523
U.S. Patent 5,322,783
U.S. Patent 5,384,253
U.S. Patent 5,464,765
U.S. Patent 5,538,877
U.S. Patent 5,538,880
U.S. Patent 5,550,318
U.S. Patent 5,563,055
U.S. Patent 5,580,859
U.S. Patent 5,589,466
U.S. Patent 5,591,616
U.S. Patent 5,610,042
U.S. Patent 5,656,610
U.S. Patent 5,702,932
U.S. Patent 5,736,524
U.S. Patent 5,780,448
U.S. Patent 5,789,215
U.S. Patent 5,925,565
U.S. Patent 5,928,906
U.S. Patent 5,935,819
U.S. Patent 5,945,100
U.S. Patent 5,981,274
U.S. Patent 5,994,136
                                              - 49 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                    PCT/US2009/053403
U.S. Patent 5,994,624
U.S. Patent 5,981,274
U.S. Patent 5,945,100
U.S. Patent 5,780,448
U.S. Patent 5,736,524
U.S. Patent 5,702,932
U.S. Patent 5,656,610
U.S. Patent 5,589,466
U.S. Patent 5,580,859
U.S. Patent 6,013,516
U.S. Patent Appln. 20030211603
U.S. Patent Appln. 20070238170
Alexander et al., Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci. USA, 85:5092-5096,1988.
Andrews et al., In:      Teratocarcinomas and Embryonic Stem Cells, Robertson (Ed.), IRL
       Press, 207-246,1987.
Ausubel et al., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, Greene Publ. Assoc. Inc. & John
       Wiley & Sons, Inc., MA, 1994.
Blomer et al., J. Virol., 71(9):6641-6649, 1997.
Boyer et al., Cell, 122(6):947-56, 2005.
Carbonelli et al., FEMS Microbiol.Lett., 177(1):75-82, 1999.
Chalfie et al., Science, 263(5148):802-805, 1994.
Chambers et al., Cell, 113(5):643-55, 2003.
Chandler et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 94(8):3596-601, 1997.
Chen and Okayama, Mol. Cell Biol., 7(8):2745-2752, 1987.
Cocea, Biotechniques, 23(5):814-816, 1997.
EPO 0273085
Ercolani et al., J. Biol. Chem., 263: 15335-15341, 1988.
Fechheimer et al., Proc Natl. A cad. Sci. USA, 84:8463-8467, 1987.
Fraley et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 76:3348-3352, 1979.
Ghosh and Bachhawat Gopal, 1985
Gopal, Mol. Cell Biol., 5:1188-1190, 1985.
                                               - 50 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
Graham and Van Der Eb, Virology, 52:456-467, 1973.
Harland and Weintraub, J. Cell Biol., 101(3):1094-1099, 1985.
Jaenisch, Science 240:1468-1474, 1988.
Kaeppler et al., Plant Cell Reports, 9:415-418, 1990.
Kaneda et al., Science, 243:375-378, 1989.
Karin et al., Cell, 36:371-379,1989.
Kato et al, J. Biol. Chem., 266:3361-3364, 1991.
Kennedy et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 100:14269-14274, 2003.
Kim et al., Molec. CellularBiol., 12(8):3636-3643, 1992.
Klein et al., Nature, 327:70-73, 1987.
Levenson et al., Hum. Gene Ther., 9(8):1233-1236, 1998.
Macejak and Sarnow, Nature, 353:90-94, 1991.
Mann et al., Cell, 33:153-159, 1983.
McBratney, et al., Curr. Opin. Cell Biol., 5:961-965, 1993.
Miller et al., Am. J. Clin. Oncol., 15(3):216-221, 1992.
Nabel et al., Science, 244(4910):1342-1344, 1989.
Naldini et al., Science, 272(5259):263-267, 1996.
Ng, Nuc. Acid Res., 17:601-615,1989.
Nicolas and Rubinstein, In:     Vectors: A survey of molecular cloning vectors and their uses,
        Rodriguez and Denhardt, eds., Stoneham: Butterworth, 494-513, 1988.
Nicolau and Sene, Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 721:185-190, 1982.
Nicolau et al., Methods Enzymol., 149:157-176, 1987.
Omirulleh et al., PlantMol. Biol., 21(3):415-428, 1993.
Paskind et al., Virology, 67:242-248, 1975.
Pelletier and Sonenberg, Nature, 334(6180):320-325, 1988.
Perales et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 91:4086-4090, 1994.
Potrykus et al., Mol. Gen. Genet., 199(2):169-177, 1985.
Potter et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 81:7161-7165, 1984.
Quitsche et al., J. Biol. Chem., 264:9539-9545,1989.
Richards et al., Cell, 37:263-272, 1984.
Rippe, et al., Mol. Cell Biol., 10:689-695, 1990.
                                                -51 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                      PCT/US2009/053403
Sambrook et al., In: Molecular cloning: a laboratory manual, 2 nd Ed., Cold Spring Harbor
       Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 1989.
Sambrook and Russell, Molecular Cloning:          A Laboratory Manual 3 rd Ed., Cold Spring
       Harbor Laboratory Press, 2001.
Takahashi et al., Cell, 126(4):663-676, 2006.
Takahashi et al., Cell, 126(4):663-76, 2007.
Temin, In: Gene Transfer, Kucherlapati (Ed.), NY, Plenum Press, 149-188, 1986.
Tur-Kaspa et al., Mol. Cell Biol., 6:716-718, 1986.
Wagner et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87(9):3410-3414, 1990.
Wilson et al., Science, 244:1344-1346, 1989.
WO 94/09699
WO 95/06128
WO 99/20741
Wong et al., Gene, 10:87-94, 1980.
Wu and Wu, Adv. Drug Delivery Rev., 12:159-167, 1993.
Wu and Wu, Biochemistry, 27: 887-892, 1988.
Wu and Wu, J. Biol. Chem., 262:4429-4432, 1987.
Wu et al., J. Virol., 76(5):2480-2490, 2002.
Yamanaka et al., Cell, 131(5):861-72, 2007.
Yang and Russell, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 87:4144-4148, 1990.
Yu et al., Science, 318:1917-1920, 2007.
Zufferey et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 15(9):871-875, 1997.
                                               - 52 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                        PCT/US2009/053403
                                              CLAIMS
        1.       A reprogramming vector comprising a polycistronic expression cassette
comprising:
                 (a) a transcriptional regulatory element; and
                 (b) a first and second coding sequence operably linked to said transcriptional
regulatory element, wherein said first coding sequence encodes a reprogramming factor and
said second coding sequence encodes a second reprogramming factor or a reporter.
        2.       The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein the transcriptional regulatory
element comprises a long terminal repeat region (LTR).
        3.       The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein said second coding sequence
encodes a reporter.
        4.       The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein said second coding sequence
encodes a second reprogramming factor.
        5.       The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein said expression cassette further
comprises a third coding sequence operably linked to said transcriptional regulatory element,
wherein said third coding sequence encodes a reprogramming factor, a reporter, or a selection
marker.
        6.       The reprogramming vector of claim 5, wherein the third coding sequence
encodes a selection marker.
        7.       The reprogramming vector of claim 6, wherein the selection marker is an
antibiotic resistance marker.
        8.       The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein said reporter is a cell surface
marker, a fluorescent protein, an epitope, chloramphenicol         acetyl transferase (CAT),
luciferase or -galactosidase.
                                                  - 53 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                       PCT/US2009/053403
        9.     The reprogramming vector of claims 8, wherein said fluorescent protein is a
green fluorescent protein (GFP), red fluorescent protein (RFP), blue fluorescent protein
(BFP) or yellow fluorescent protein (YFP).
        10.    The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein the reprogramming factor
encoded is Sox, Oct, Nanog, Lin28, Klf4, or c-Myc.
        11.    The reprogramming vector of claim 10, wherein Sox is Sox-1, Sox-2, Sox-3,
Sox-15, or Sox-18.
        12.    The reprogramming vector of claim 10, wherein Oct is Oct-4.
        13.    The reprogramming vector of claim 10, wherein said reprogramming factor is
Nanog, Lin28, Klf4, or c-Myc.
        14.    The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein said vector is a viral vector.
        15.    The reprogramming vector of claim 14, wherein said vector is a retroviral
vector.
        16.    The reprogramming vector of claim 15, wherein the retroviral vector is murine
leukemia virus (MLV), Moloney murine leukemia virus (MMLV), Akv-MLV, or SL-3-3
MLV.
        17.    The reprogramming vector of claim 14, wherein said vector is a lentiviral
vector.
        18.    The reprogramming vector of claim 1, wherein the expression cassette further
comprises one or more IRES.
        19.    The reprogramming vector of claim 18, wherein said IRES is selected from
the group consisting of an encephalomyocarditis virus IRES, a picornavirus IRES, a foot-and
mouth disease virus IRES, a hepatitis A virus IRES, a hepatitis C virus IRES, a human
rhinovirus IRES, a poliovirus IRES, a swine vesicular disease virus IRES, a turnip mosaic
potyvirus IRES, a human fibroblast growth factor 2 mRNA IRES, a pestivirus IRES, a
Leishmania RNA virus IRES, a Moloney murine leukemia virus IRES a human rhinovirus 14
                                             - 54 -

   WO 2010/019569                                                      PCT/US2009/053403
IRES, an aphthovirus IRES, a human immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein mRNA
IRES, a Drosophila Antennapedia mRNA IRES, a human fibroblast growth factor 2 mRNA
IRES, a hepatitis G virus IRES, a tobamovirus IRES, a vascular endothelial growth factor
mRNA IRES, a Coxsackie B group virus IRES, a c-myc protooncogene mRNA IRES, a
human MYT2 mRNA IRES, a human parechovirus type 1 virus IRES, a human parechovirus
type 2 virus IRES, a eukaryotic initiation factor 4GI mRNA IRES, a Plautia stali intestine
virus IRES, a Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus IRES, a bovine enterovirus IRES, a
connexin 43 mRNA IRES, a homeodomain protein Gtx mRNA IRES, an AMLI transcription
factor mRNA IRES, an NF-kappa B repressing factor mRNA IRES, an X-linked inhibitor of
apoptosis mRNA IRES, a cricket paralysis virus RNA IRES, a p58 (PITSLRE) protein kinase
mRNA IRES, an ornithine decarboxylase mRNA IRES, a connexin-32 mRNA IRES, a
bovine viral diarrhea virus IRES, an insulin-like growth factor I receptor mRNA IRES, a
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 gag gene IRES, a classical swine fever virus IRES, a
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpes virus IRES, a short IRES selected from a library of
random oligonucleotides, a Jembrana disease virus IRES, an apoptotic protease-activating
factor 1 mRNA IRES, a Rhopalosiphum padi virus IRES, a cationic amino acid transporter
mRNA IRES, a human insulin-like growth factor II leader 2 mRNA IRES, a giardiavirus
IRES, a Smad5 mRNA IRES, a porcine teschovirus-1 talfan IRES, a Drosophila Hairless
mRNA IRES, an hSNM1 mRNA IRES, a Cbfal/Runx2 mRNA IRES, an Epstein-Barr virus
IRES, a hibiscus chlorotic ringspot virus IRES, a rat pituitary vasopressin Vlb receptor
mRNA IRES, and a human hsp70 mRNA IRES.
        20.    The    reprogramming    vector    of claim 19,  wherein   the IRES     is  an
encephalomyocarditis virus IRES.
        21.    A method for producing an induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell population, the
method comprising the steps of:
        (a)    obtaining one or more reprogramming vectors according to claims 1-20; and
        (b)     introducing the reprogramming vectors into cells of a population of somatic
               cells to provide an iPS cell population.
                                               - 55 -

    WO 2010/019569                                                         PCT/US2009/053403
        22.    The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of:
               (c)     culturing the cells to expand the population; and
               (d)     selecting progeny cells of said expanded population, wherein said
progeny cells have one or more characteristics of embryonic stem cells.
        23.    The method of claim 22, wherein step c) further comprises selecting said
population of somatic cells, wherein said selected somatic cells express said reporter.
        24.    The method of claim 22, wherein said selecting in step c) comprises
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), CAT assay or luminescence assay.
        25.    The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of:
               (e)     culturing the selected progeny cells to provide the iPS cell population.
        26.    The method of claim 21, wherein said one or more reprogramming vectors
include coding sequences that encode reprogramming factors comprising Sox and Oct.
        27.    The method of claim 21, wherein said one or more reprogramming vector is
introduced into said cells by liposome transfection, electroporation, particle bombardment,
calcium phosphate, polycation, or polyanion.
        28.    The method of claim 21, wherein the somatic cells are mammalian somatic
cells.
        29.    The method of claim 28, wherein the somatic cells are human somatic cells.
        30.    The method of claim 21,           wherein the somatic cells are fibroblasts,
hematopoietic cells, or mesenchymal cells.
        31.    The method of claim 30, wherein the somatic cells are fibroblasts.
        32.    The method of claim 22, wherein said characteristic is an essential loss of said
reporter, an undifferentiated morphology, an embryonic stem cell-specific marker or
pluripotency.
                                                -56-

   WO 2010/019569                                                       PCT/US2009/053403
        33.    The method of claim 22, wherein said characteristic is an essential loss of
expression of said reporter.
        34.    The method of claim 22, wherein said characteristic           is selected by
fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), CAT assay or luminescence assay.
        35.    The method of claim 22, wherein said characteristic is an undifferentiated
morphology.
        36.    The method of claim 22, wherein said characteristic is one or more embryonic
stem cell-specific markers selected from the group consisting of SSEA-3, SSEA-4, Tra-1-60
or Tra-1-81, Tra-2-49/6E, GDF3, REXI, FGF4, ESG1, DPPA2, DPPA4, and hTERT.
                                              - 57 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
