                                              Abstract
[00308]      The present invention provides, among other things, antibody agents (e.g., antibodies,
and/or antigen-binding fragments thereof) that bind to DV epitopes, as well as compositions
containing them and methods of designing, providing, formulating, using, identifying and/or
characterizing them. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show significant binding
to a plurality of DV serotypes. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show significant
binding to all four DV serotypes. Such antibody agents are useful, for example, in the
prophylaxis, treatment, diagnosis, and/or study of DV.

                ANTI-DENGUE VIRUS ANTIBODIES AND USES THEREOF
                             Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]      This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013299986, which is the
Australian National Phase of PCT/US2013/052062, which claims priority from United States
Provisional Application No. 61/680,385, filed August 7, 2012, and United States Provisional
Application No. 61/780,209, filed March 13, 2013. The contents of each application listed in this
paragraph are fully incorporated by reference herein.
                                            Background
[0002]      Dengue virus (DV) is a member of the virus family Falviviridaeand is transmitted to
people by several species of mosquito within the genus Aedes, principally Aedes aegypti. Over
3.6 billion people worldwide are at risk of being infected with DV and more than 200 million
infections of DV are estimated to occur each year globally (McBride et al., 2000 Microbes &
Infection 2:1041-1050, Guzman et al., 2010 Nature Rev. Microbiol. 8:S7-16). Dengue Fever is
the most medically relevant arboviral disease in humans. The significant increases in incidence,
geographical outreach, and severity of disease cases of Dengue are making DV a major human
pathogen. Unfortunately, effective therapeutic regimens are not currently available; the most
effective current prevention measures lie in mosquito control.
                                              Summary
[0003]      The present invention provides methods and compositions for the treatment and/or
prevention of DV infection. Among other things, the present invention provides antibody agents
that neutralize all four DV serotypes. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents are
variants of reference antibody 4E 11; in some such embodiments, provided antibody agents have
amino acid sequences that show high overall sequence identity with that of 4E 11, or a relevant
fragment thereof, yet include specific sequence variations as compared with 4E1 1 and show a
significant improvement in neutralization of at least one DV serotype as compared with that
observed for 4E 11.
[0004]      The present invention provides the insight that reference antibody 4E 11, has certain
desirable attributes, including binding to all four DV serotypes and having potent neutralizing
                                                   1

ability of three of the four DV serotypes, but also lacks the ability to effectively neutralize the
fourth DV serotype. The present invention identifies the source of the problem of 4E 1's
inability to effectively neutralize this fourth DV serotype. In particular, the present invention
defines structural feature modifications that improve the ability of an antibody agent whose
sequence contains the modification(s) to neutralize the relevant DV serotype, as compared with
the ability of 4E 11, which lacks the modifications. The present invention therefore defines and
provides antibodies having structures that include the relevant structural feature modifications
(but may otherwise be substantially identical to that of 4E 11) and being characterized by an
ability to neutralize DV serotype 4 (DV4). In some embodiments, provided antibody agents
show abilities to neutralize each of the other three DV serotypes that are not significantly
reduced as compared that of 4E 11. Indeed, in some embodiments, provided antibody agents are
characterized by a surprising increase in neutralization capability with respect to one or more of
the other three DV serotypes (DV 1-4) as compared with that observed with 4E11.
[0005]       The present invention provides technologies for defining structural modifications that
impart biological activities of interest to polypeptides, while maintaining structural features
required to preserve other activities.
[0006]       In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind to DV
epitopes, as well as compositions containing them and methods of designing, providing,
formulating, using, identifying and/or characterizing them. In some embodiments, provided
antibody agents show significant binding to a plurality of DV serotypes. In some embodiments,
provided antibody agents show significant binding to all four DV serotypes. Provided antibody
agents are useful, for example, in the prophylaxis, treatment, diagnosis, and/or study of DV.
[0007]       In some embodiments, provided antibody agents cross-compete with one or more
previously-described reference anti-DV antibodies. In some embodiments, provided antibody
agents bind to an epitope that is or comprises an amino acid sequence within SEQ ID NO. 17
(EDIII-DV1), SEQ ID NO. 18 (EDIII-DV2), SEQ ID NO. 19 (EDIII-DV3), SEQ ID NO. 20
(EDIII-DV4) and/or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents do
not significantly cross-compete with one or more particular previously-described anti-DV
antibodies.
                                                   2

[0008]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents neutralize DV in established model
systems with greater potency than does one or more previously-described reference anti-DV
antibodies. The present invention encompasses, among other things, the recognition that
provided antibody agents may offer greater therapeutic and/or prophylactic benefit than do
previously-described anti-DV antibodies.
[0009]       Provided antibody agents are useful in a variety of contexts including, for example,
in therapeutic, prophylactic, diagnostic, and/or research applications. In some embodiments,
provided antibody agents are useful in the treatment of chronic and/or acute DV infection, for
example by administering to a subject suffering from or susceptible to such infection a
therapeutically effective amount of one or more provided such provided antibody agents. In
some embodiments, a therapeutically effective amount is an amount sufficient to achieve one or
more particular biological effects, including, but not limited to, (i) reducing severity or frequency
of, and/or delaying onset or re-emergence of one or more symptoms or characteristics of DV
infection in an individual susceptible to or suffering from DV infection; and/or (ii) reducing risk
of infection and/or of development of one or more symptoms or characteristics of DV infection
in an individual exposed or at risk of exposure to DV infection. In some embodiments, the one
or more symptoms or characteristics of DV infection is or comprises high fever and at least one
or more additional symptoms selected for example from severe headache, severe eye pain, joint
pain, muscle pain, bone pain, rash, mild bleeding manifestation (e.g., nose or gum bleeding,
petechiae, easy bruising), abdominal pain, vomiting, black, tarry stools, drowsiness or irritability,
pale, cold or clammy skin, difficulty breathing, low white cell count, circulating viral particles in
an individual or one or more tissues (e.g., blood, bone marrow) or organs (e.g., liver) thereof. In
some embodiments, an individual suffering from DV infection displays high fever and at least
two such additional symptoms.
[0010]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents may be used to prevent, reduce
recurrence of, and/or delay onset of one or more symptoms or characteristics of DV infection. In
some embodiments, provided antibody agents may be used, for example, for passive
immunization of individuals recently exposed to DV or at risk of being exposed to DV, newborn
babies born to DV-positive mothers, and/or liver transplantation patients (e.g., to prevent
possible recurrent DV infections in such patients).
                                                   3

[0011]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides viral mimic agents whose
structure includes one or more conserved elements of certain DV antigens, for example sufficient
to permit the viral mimic agent to mimic one or more biological activities of the relevant DV
antigen. In some embodiments, such viral mimic agents include such conserved structural
elements of DV antigens, for example as defined herein, and lack one or more other structural
elements of the DV antigens. In some embodiments, provided viral mimic agents are or
comprise one or more polypeptides. In some embodiments, provided viral mimic agent
polypeptides have amino acid sequences that include one or more conserved sequence elements
from a DV antigen; in some embodiments, provided viral mimic agent polypeptides lack one or
more other sequence elements from the DV antigen. For example, in some embodiments,
provided viral mimic agent polypeptides are or comprise fragments of a DV antigen.
[0012]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides therapeutic methods of
treatment, utilized after development of one or more symptoms of DV infection. In some
embodiments, the present invention provides therapeutic methods of prophylaxis, utilized prior
to development of one or more symptoms of DV infection, and/or prior to exposure to DV, DV
infection, or risk thereof. In some particular embodiments, the present invention provides
passive immunization technologies.
[0013]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides diagnostic methods of detecting
DV in and/or otherwise characterizing samples such as clinical, environmental, and/or research
samples.
[0014]      The present invention provides systems for designing, identifying, and/or
characterizing useful anti-DV antibody agents. For example, in some embodiments, the present
invention provides empirical computational approaches that capture particular physicochemical
features common to protein interfaces. In some embodiments, such approaches permit prediction
of protein-protein interactions (e.g., antigen-antibody interactions), including for example
predicting which amino acid sequences might show particularly high interaction affinity. In
some embodiments, provided approaches are usefully applied to design, identify, and/or
characterize sequences that differ from a reference sequence and show one or more improved
characteristics (e.g., improved affinity) with regard to their protein-protein interactions.
                                                   4

[0015]      The present invention provides systems for stratifying patients based on their
immunological response to DV. The present invention provides methods for identifying those
patients likely to respond well to DV immunotherapy. For example, a patient's serum may be
used to test for the presence of antibodies directed against a particular epitope of DV (e.g.,
epitope to which provided antibody agents specifically binds). If the patient does not have
adequate levels of antibodies directed to such an epitope, one or more provided DV antibody
agents may be administered to the patient. The patient's own immune response may be
supplemented with provided DV antibody agents. In some embodiments, immunotherapy aids in
clearance of DV virus and/or resolution of DV infection. In some embodiments, immunotherapy
in accordance with the present invention treats and/or prevents chronic DV infection.
[0016]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides methods of designing,
identifying and/or characterizing useful antibody agents. For example, in some embodiments,
such methods involve determining whether a test antibody agent competes for antigen binding
with one or more reference anti-DV antibodies and/or other antibody agents. In some
embodiments, a test antibody agent is identified as a useful antibody agent if it cross-competes
with one or more reference DV antibodies.
[0017]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents are combined with one or more
additional pharmaceutically acceptable substances to provide pharmaceutical compositions. The
present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions for treatment, prevention, diagnosis
and/or characterization of DV infection.
[0018]      In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions comprise antibody agents that
are or comprise, for example, human antibodies or fragments or variants thereof that bind to any
DV serotype and neutralize DV infection in vitro. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions comprise antibody agents that are or comprise, for example human antibodies or
fragments or variants thereof that bind to any DV serotype and neutralize DV infection in vivo.
In some embodiments, DV neutralization by provided antibody agents in in vitro systems is
correlative and/or predictive of DV neutralization by provided antibody agents in vivo (e.g., in
humans and/or other mammals).
[0019]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents may be utilized together with one or
more other therapies for treating, reducing incidence, frequency, or severity of, and/or delaying
                                                   5

onset of DV infection or one or more symptoms or characteristics thereof. For example, in some
embodiments, provided antibody agents are utilized together with one or more anti-viral agents,
anti-inflammatories, pain relievers, immunomodulating therapeutics and combination therapy,
which preferably involves other DV targets. For example, in some embodiments, in some
embodiments, provided antibody agents are administered in combination with one or more
interferons (e.g., interferon c-2b, interferon-y, etc.), analgesics (preferably containing
acetaminophen and not aspirin and/or ibuprofen), anti-DV monoclonal antibodies, anti-DV
polyclonal antibodies, RNA polymerase inhibitors, protease inhibitors, nucleoside analogs,
helicase inhibitors, immunomodulators, antisense compounds, short interfering RNAs (siRNAs),
short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs), micro RNAs (miRNAs), RNA aptamers, ribozymes, and
combinations thereof.
[0020]      Thus, in some embodiments, the invention specifically provides an antibody agent
which binds to and neutralizes each of Dengue Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3, and D4. In some
embodiments, the antibody agent binds to an epitope that is or comprises an amino acid sequence
within: SEQ ID NO. 17 (EDIII-DV1), SEQ ID NO. 18 (EDIII-DV2), SEQ ID NO. 19 (EDIII
DV3), SEQ ID NO. 20 (EDIII-DV4), or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the
antibody agent binds to an epitope in the A-strand region of envelop glycoprotein of Dengue
virus.
[0021]      In some embodiments, the epitope comprises on or more residues corresponding to
that at a position selected from the group consisting of 305, 306, 307, 308, 309, 310, 311, 312,
323, 325, 327, 329, 360, 361, 362, 363, 364, 385, 387, 388, 389, 390, 391, and combinations
thereof, of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20. In some embodiments, the corresponding residue at
position 305 is selected from the group consisting of: serine, lysine, and threonine. In some
embodiments, the corresponding residue at position 310 is lysine. In some embodiments, the
corresponding residue at position 311 is lysine. In some embodiments, the corresponding
residue at position 323 is selected from the group consisting of arginine, lysine, and glutamine.
In some embodiments, the corresponding residue at position 327 is selected from the group
consisting of lysine and glutamate. In some embodiments, the corresponding residue at position
329 is selected from the group consisting of arginine, aspartate, glutamate, and threonine.
                                                   6

[0022]      In some embodiments, the invention provides an antibody agent whose heavy chain
variable region and/or light chain variable region includes at least one complementarity
determining region (CDR) sharing at least 80% sequence identity with a CDR of reference
antibody 4E 11, but differs by substitution of at least one amino residue within the CDR. In some
embodiments, the antibody agent includes at least one CDR that is substantially identical to a
reference CDR of antibody 4E 11 in that it is either identical to such reference CDR or includes
between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids within such reference CDR. In some embodiments, the
reference CDR is selected from the group consisting of one found between residues 27 and 33 of
the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1), one found between residues 53 and 58 of the 4E1 1 heavy
chain (SEQ ID NO. 1), one found between residues 100 and 106 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ
ID NO. 1), one found between residues 24 and 38 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2), one
found between residues 54 and 60 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2), one found between
residues 93 and 101 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2); and combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, the antibody agent includes at least one CDR that is substantially identical to a
reference CDR set forth below, in that it is either identical to such reference CDR or includes
between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids within such reference CDR reference CDRs:
GFNIKDT (SEQ ID NO. 7), DPANGD (SEQ ID NO. 8), GWEGFAY (SEQ ID NO. 9),
RASENVDKYGNSFMH (SEQ ID NO. 14), RASNLES (SEQ ID NO. 15), and/or
QRSNEVPWT (SEQ ID NO. 16). In some embodiments, the reference CDR is a heavy chain
CDR. In some embodiments, the reference CDR is a light chain CDR. In some embodiments,
the antibody agent includes at least one heavy chain CDR that is substantially identical to a
heavy chain reference CDR and also includes at least one light chain CDR that is identical to a
light chain reference CDR. In some embodiments, each of the CDRs in the antibody agent is
substantially identical to one of the reference CDRs.
[0023]      In some embodiments, the invention provides an antibody agent whose heavy chain
variable region includes at least one complementarity determining region (CDR) sharing at least
95% sequence identity with a CDR of reference antibody 4E 11, but differs by substitution of at
least one amino acid residue within the CDR. In some embodiments, the antibody agent includes
at least one CDR that is substantially identical to a reference CDR of antibody 4E1 1 in that it is
either identical to such reference CDR or includes between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids
within such reference CDR. In some embodiments, the reference CDR is selected from the
                                                   7

group consisting of one found between residues 27 and 33 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO.
1), one found between residues 53 and 58 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1), one found
between residues 100 and 106 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1), one found between
residues 24 and 38 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2), one found between residues 54 and
60 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2), one found between residues 93 and 101 of the 4E1 1
light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2), and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the antibody
agent includes at least one CDR that is substantially identical to a reference CDR set forth below,
in that it is either identical to such reference CDR or includes between 1-5 substitutions of amino
acids within such reference CDR reference CDRs: GFNIKDT (SEQ ID NO. 7), DPANGD (SEQ
ID NO. 8), GWEGFAY (SEQ ID NO. 9), RASENVDKYGNSFMH (SEQ ID NO. 14),
RASNLES (SEQ ID NO. 15), and/or QRSNEVPWT (SEQ ID NO. 16). In some embodiments,
the reference CDR is a heavy chain CDR. In some embodiments, the reference CDR is a light
chain CDR. In some embodiments, the antibody agent includes at least one heavy chain CDR
that is substantially identical to a heavy chain reference CDR and also includes at least one light
chain CDR that is identical to a light chain reference CDR. In some embodiments, each of the
CDRs in the antibody agent is substantially identical to one of the reference CDRs. In some
embodiments, the heavy chain variable region CDR has substitution of the amino acid residue at
position 55. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid at position 55 is selected form the
group consisting of glutamate and aspartate. In some embodiments, the light chain variable
region CDR has substitution of the amino acid residue at positions selected from the group
consisting of 31, 57, 59, 60, and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the substitute
amino acid residue at position 31 is lysine. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid
residue at position 57 is selected from the group consisting of glutamate and serine. In some
embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 59 is selected from the group
consisting of glutamine and asparagine. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue
at position 60 is selected from the group consisting of tryptophan, tyrosine, and arginine.
[0024]         In some embodiments, the invention provides an antibody agent which is an IgG. In
some embodiments, an antibody agent is a monoclonal antibody. In some embodiments, an
antibody agent is selected from the group consisting of: a mouse antibody, a humanized
antibody, a human antibody, a purified antibody, an isolated antibody, a chimeric antibody, a
polyclonal antibody, and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, an antibody agent is
                                                    8

provided wherein the antigen binding fragment is selected from the group consisting of: a Fab
fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab') 2 fragment, a Fd fragment, a Fd' fragment, a Fv fragment, a
dAb fragment, a scFv fragment, an isolated CDR region, a dsFv diabody, a single chain
antibody, and combinations thereof.
[0025]      In some embodiments, the invention provides a cell line expressing an antibody agent
specific to Dengue virus, wherein the antibody agent binds to and neutralizes each of Dengue
Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3, and D4. In some embodiments, the invention provides a
pharmaceutical composition including one or more antibody agents wherein the antibody agent
binds to and neutralizes each of Dengue Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3, and D4 and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical composition
further includes at least one additional antiviral agent.
[0026]      In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of treating a subject in need
thereof, including the step of administering an antibody agent wherein the antibody agent binds
to and neutralizes each of Dengue Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3, and D4. In some embodiments,
the invention provides kits including at least one antibody agent wherein the antibody agent
binds to and neutralizes each of Dengue Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3, and D4, a syringe, needle,
or applicator for administration of the at least one antibody or fragment to a subject, and
instructions for use.
[00271       In some embodiments, the invention provides methods of manufacturing
pharmaceutical compositions, the method including the steps of providing an antibody agent
wherein the antibody agent binds to and neutralizes each of Dengue Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3,
and D4, and formulating the antibody agent with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
so that a pharmaceutical composition is generated. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition is a liquid composition. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is
formulated for parenteral administration. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition
is formulated for intravenous administration. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition is formulated for intravenous administration to a child.
                                 Brief Description of the Drawing
[0028]      The Figures of the Drawing are for illustration purposes only, not for limitation.
                                                   9

[0029]       Figure 1: Figure 1 shows the effect of window size on prediction accuracy. The
window size represents the number of predicted positives. Prediction accuracy is determined by
the number of test case structures (overall 37) correctly predicted. When the window size is one
(i.e., when one out of 101 structures is predicted to be positive), nearly half of the x-ray
structures (48% ~ 18 out of 37) were correctly identified, the binomial probability of which is
1.46E-26 (n=37,p=0.009, number of successes=18) if the structures were chosen at random. The
prediction accuracy of MLR-method is seen to be a logarithmically increasing function of
window size with accuracy reaching 85% at window size 5 and 100% at window size 10. On the
contrary, ZRANK fails to predict 100% of the structures even when the window size is 20.
[0030]       Figure 2: Figures 2A-C illustrate docking results of a local search. For this
assessment, native-like structures are defined as having less that 3 angstroms (A) RMSD from
the ligand in the x-ray structure, calculated for ligand atoms that are within 7 A of the fixed
receptor. Structures that have RMSD > 3 A are referred as non-native structures. (A) Each point
on the surface plot represents a docking decoy. The x-axis shows the ZRANK score; the Y-axis
represents RMSD (in A) to the X-ray structure; the Z axis represents MLR based prediction
probabilities. ZRANK scores of native-like structures vary between -60 to -30 Kcal/mol. (B)
Correlation between ZRANK scores (x-axis) and RMSD (y-axis). Data points inside dotted
circles are close to native x-ray structure. (C) Correlation between MLR-based probability and
RMSD. There is a significant correlation between prediction probabilities vs. RMSD but no
such correlation exists between ZRANK and RMSD.
[0031]       Figure3: Figure 3 demonstrates the affinity and in vitro activity of 4E1 1 antibody.
[0032]       Figure 4: Figure 4 shows a flowchart of the antibody design approach.
[0033]       Figure 5: Figure 5 demonstrates the superposition of the top five docking models on
fixed EDIII. EDIII domain is represented as spheres; 4E 11, displayed as the surface in each
model.
[0034]       Figure 6: Figures 6A-B illustrate sequence and structural determinants of poor DV4
binding. (A) Sequence alignment of EDIII domain region of four serotypes. Putative mAb
binding residues are shaded in grey. Residues at 307, 329, 361, 364, 385, 388 and 390
differentiate DV4 from reminder of the sequences; these are numbered. Residue contacts made
by the five mAb mutations are boxed. Notably, 5 out of 6 new contacts are formed against
                                                   10

conserved epitope residues of A & B strands. This explains why the new mutations are not
detrimental to DV1-3 binding. (B) Structural model of 4E11/EDIII interaction. Sequence
positions that discriminate DV4 from other strains are labeled and the side chains of amino acids
therein represented as sticks.
[0035]      Figure 7: Figure 7 demonstrates that affinity-enhancing mutations localize to the
periphery of the 4E 11 :EDIII-DV4 interface. The positive positions identified in the binding
screen are highlighted and shown in a structural model of 4E 11 :EDIII-DV4 interaction. All
positive mutations are located at the periphery of the binding interface. The two panels represent
different views of the same model. EDIII (top), VH (right), and VL (left) proteins are
represented respectively, in each panel.
[0036]      Figure 8: Figures 8A-H show surface plasmon resonance (SPR) sensograms of 4E1 1
WT and 4E5A with antigens EDIII of DV1-4.
[0037]      Figure 9: Figure 9 illustrates in vitro neutralizing activity of antibodies assessed by
focus reduction neutralization test (FRNT). Neutralization assays were performed with DV1-4
and antibodies 4E1 1 WT, m4E1 1 WT, 4E5A, and 4G2. Serial dilutions of antibody were mixed
with equal amounts of virus and added to Vero cell monolayers with a viscous overlay. After 4
6 days, cells were fixed and foci were immunostained and counted. Data points represent
averages of duplicates with error bars representing standard deviation. A standard four
parameter logistic model was fit to the data using least squares regression. 4E5A shows similar
neutralizing activity to 4E 11 and m4E 11 for DV 1-3 and a substantial increase in neutralizing
activity to DV4. 4G2, a representative flavivirus fusion-loop specific antibody, demonstrates
lower neutralizing activity for DV 1-3 and only slightly higher activity to DV4 relative to 4E5A.
[0038]      Figure 10: Figure 10 shows in vivo prophylactic DV2 challenge model. The data
show virus in the serum of AF129 mice on day 3 after virus challenge. Mice treated with ABI or
placebo 1 day prior to virus challenge. RNA extracted from the serum of the mice was amplified
by QRT-PCR and an approximate Logi oCCID5 0 titer was extrapolated based on a curve from
control RNA taken from a sample of known titer. The dashed line represents the approximate
limit of detection.
[0039]      Figure 11: Figure 11 demonstrates amino acid frequencies in paratope and epitope.
Data generated from 77 antigen-antibody complexes.
                                                   11

                                              Definitions
[0040]       In order for the present invention to be more readily understood, certain terms are
first defined below; those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate and understand the use and
scope of these terms as defined below and/or otherwise used herein.
[0041]       Adult: As used herein, the term "adult" refers to a human eighteen years of age or
older. Body weights among adults can vary widely with a typical range being 90 pounds to 250
pounds.
[0042]       Affinity: As is known in the art, "affinity" is a measure of the tightness with a
particular ligand (e.g., an antibody) binds to its partner (e.g., an epitope). Affinities can be
measured in different ways.
[0043]       Amino acid: As used herein, term "amino acid," in its broadest sense, refers to any
compound and/or substance that can be incorporated into a polypeptide chain. In some
embodiments, an amino acid has the general structure H 2N-C(H)(R)-COOH. In some
embodiments, an amino acid is a naturally occurring amino acid. In some embodiments, an
amino acid is a synthetic amino acid; in some embodiments, an amino acid is a d-amino acid; in
some embodiments, an amino acid is an 1-amino acid. "Standard amino acid" refers to any of the
twenty standard 1-amino acids commonly found in naturally occurring peptides. "Nonstandard
amino acid" refers to any amino acid, other than the standard amino acids, regardless of whether
it is prepared synthetically or obtained from a natural source. As used herein, "synthetic amino
acid" encompasses chemically modified amino acids, including but not limited to salts, amino
acid derivatives (such as amides), and/or substitutions. Amino acids, including carboxy- and/or
amino-terminal amino acids in peptides, can be modified by methylation, amidation, acetylation,
protecting groups, and/or substitution with other chemical groups that can change the peptide's
circulating half-life without adversely affecting their activity. Amino acids may participate in a
disulfide bond. Amino acids may comprise one or posttranslational modifications, such as
association with one or more chemical entities (e.g., methyl groups, acetate groups, acetyl
groups, phosphate groups, formyl moieties, isoprenoid groups, sulfate groups, polyethylene
glycol moieties, lipid moieties, carbohydrate moieties, biotin moieties, etc.). The term "amino
acid" is used interchangeably with "amino acid residue," and may refer to a free amino acid
                                                   12

and/or to an amino acid residue of a peptide. It will be apparent from the context in which the
term is used whether it refers to a free amino acid or a residue of a peptide.
[0044]      Animal: As used herein, the term "animal" refers to any member of the animal
kingdom. In some embodiments, "animal" refers to humans, of either sex and at any stage of
development. In some embodiments, "animal" refers to non-human animals, at any stage of
development. In certain embodiments, the non-human animal is a mammal (e.g., a rodent, a
mouse, a rat, a rabbit, a monkey, a dog, a cat, a sheep, cattle, a primate, and/or a pig). In some
embodiments, animals include, but are not limited to, mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, fish,
insects, and/or worms. In certain embodiments, the animal is susceptible to infection by DV. In
some embodiments, an animal may be a transgenic animal, genetically engineered animal, and/or
a clone.
[0045]      Antibody agent: As used herein, the term "antibody agent" refers to an agent that
specifically binds to a particular antigen. In some embodiments, the term encompasses any
polypeptide with immunoglobulin structural elements sufficient to confer specific
binding. Suitable antibody agents include, but are not limited to, human antibodies, primatized
antibodies, chimeric antibodies, bi-specific antibodies, humanized antibodies, conjugated
antibodies (i.e., antibodies conjugated or fused to other proteins, radiolabels, cytotoxins), Small
Modular ImmunoPharmaceuticals ("SMIPs"m"), single chain antibodies, cameloid antibodies,
and antibody fragments. As used herein, the term "antibody agent" also includes intact
monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies, single domain antibodies (e.g., shark single
domain antibodies (e.g., IgNAR or fragments thereof)), multispecific antibodies (e.g. bi-specific
antibodies) formed from at least two intact antibodies, and antibody fragments so long as they
exhibit the desired biological activity. In some embodiments, the term encompasses stapled
peptides. In some embodiments, the term encompasses one or more antibody-like binding
peptidomimetics. In some embodiments, the term encompasses one or more antibody-like
binding scaffold proteins. In come embodiments, the term encompasses monobodies or
adnectins. In many embodiments, an antibody agent is or comprises a polypeptide whose amino
acid sequence includes one or more structural elements recognized by those skilled in the art as a
complementarity determining region (CDR); in some embodiments an antibody agent is or
comprises a polypeptide whose amino acid sequence includes at least one CDR (e.g., at least one
heavy chain CDR and/or at least one light chain CDR) that is substantially identical to one found
                                                  13

in a reference antibody. In some embodiments an included CDR is substantially identical to a
reference CDR in that it is either identical in sequence or contains between 1-5 amino acid
substitutions as compared with the reference CDR. In some embodiments an included CDR is
substantially identical to a reference CDR in that it shows at least 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%,
90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% sequence identity with the
reference CDR. In some embodiments an included CDR is substantially identical to a reference
CDR in that it shows at least 96%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99%, or 100% sequence identity with the
reference CDR. In some embodiments an included CDR is substantially identical to a reference
CDR in that at least one amino acid within the included CDR is deleted, added, or substituted as
compared with the reference CDR but the included CDR has an amino acid sequence that is
otherwise identical with that of the reference CDR. In some embodiments an included CDR is
substantially identical to a reference CDR in that 1-5 amino acids within the included CDR are
deleted, added, or substituted as compared with the reference CDR but the included CDR has an
amino acid sequence that is otherwise identical to the reference CDR. In some embodiments an
included CDR is substantially identical to a reference CDR in that at least one amino acid within
the included CDR is substituted as compared with the reference CDR but the included CDR has
an amino acid sequence that is otherwise identical with that of the reference CDR. In some
embodiments an included CDR is substantially identical to a reference CDR in that 1-5 amino
acids within the included CDR are deleted, added, or substituted as compared with the reference
CDR but the included CDR has an amino acid sequence that is otherwise identical to the
reference CDR. In some embodiments, an antibody agent is or comprises a polypeptide whose
amino acid sequence includes structural elements recognized by those skilled in the art as an
immunoglobulin variable domain. In some embodiments, an antibody agent is a polypeptide
protein having a binding domain which is homologous or largely homologous to an
immunoglobulin-binding domain
[0046]      Antibody: As is known in the art, an "antibody" is an immunoglobulin that binds
specifically to a particular antigen. The term encompasses immunoglobulins that are naturally
produced in that they are generated by an organism reacting to the antigen, and also those that
are synthetically produced or engineered. An antibody may be monoclonal or polyclonal. An
antibody may be a member of any immunoglobulin class, including any of the human
classes: IgG, IgM, IgA, and IgD. A typical immunoglobulin (antibody) structural unit as
                                                   14

understood in the art, is known to comprise a tetramer. Each tetramer is composed of two
identical pairs of polypeptide chains, each pair having one "light" (approximately 25 kD) and
one "heavy" chain (approximately 50-70 kD). The N-terminus of each chain defines a variable
region of about 100 to 110 or more amino acids primarily responsible for antigen recognition.
The terms "variable light chain"(VL) and "variable heavy chain" (VH) refer to these light and
heavy chains respectively. Each variable region is further subdivided into hypervariable (HV)
and framework (FR) regions. The hypervariable regions comprise three areas of hypervariability
sequence called complementarity determining regions (CDR 1, CDR 2 and CDR 3), separated by
four framework regions (FRI, FR2, FR2, and FR4) which form a beta-sheet structure and serve
as a scaffold to hold the HV regions in position. The C-terminus of each heavy and light chain
defines a constant region consisting of one domain for the light chain (CL) and three for the
heavy chain (CHI, CH2 and CH3). In some embodiments, the term "full length" is used in
reference to an antibody to mean that it contains two heavy chains and two light chains,
optionally associated by disulfide bonds as occurs with naturally-produced antibodies. In some
embodiments, an antibody is produced by a cell. In some embodiments, an antibody is produced
by chemical synthesis. In some embodiments, an antibody is derived from a mammal. In some
embodiments, an antibody is derived from an animal such as, but not limited to, mouse, rat,
horse, pig, or goat. In some embodiments, an antibody is produced using a recombinant cell
culture system. In some embodiments, an antibody may be a purified antibody (for example, by
immune-affinity chromatography). In some embodiments, an antibody may be a human
antibody. In some embodiments, an antibody may be a humanized antibody (antibody from non
human species whose protein sequences have been modified to increase their similarity to
antibody variants produced naturally in humans). In some embodiments, an antibody may be a
chimeric antibody (antibody made by combining genetic material from a non-human source, e.g.,
mouse, rat, horse, or pig, with genetic material from humans).
[0047]      Antibodyfragment: As used herein, an "antibody fragment" includes a portion of an
intact antibody, such as, for example, the antigen-binding or variable region of an antibody.
Examples of antibody fragments include Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, and Fv fragments; triabodies;
tetrabodies; linear antibodies; single-chain antibody molecules; and multi specific antibodies
formed from antibody fragments. For example, antibody fragments include isolated fragments,
"Fv" fragments, consisting of the variable regions of the heavy and light chains, recombinant
                                                  15

single chain polypeptide molecules in which light and heavy chain variable regions are
connected by a peptide linker ("ScFv proteins"), and minimal recognition units consisting of the
amino acid residues that mimic the hypervariable region. In many embodiments, an antibody
fragment contains sufficient sequence of the parent antibody of which it is a fragment that it
binds to the same antigen as does the parent antibody; in some embodiments, a fragment binds to
the antigen with a comparable affinity to that of the parent antibody and/or competes with the
parent antibody for binding to the antigen. Examples of antigen binding fragments of an
antibody include, but are not limited to, Fab fragment, Fab' fragment, F(ab')2 fragment, scFv
fragment, Fv fragment, dsFv diabody, dAb fragment, Fd' fragment, Fd fragment, and an isolated
complementarity determining region (CDR) region. An antigen binding fragment of an antibody
may be produced by any means. For example, an antigen binding fragment of an antibody may
be enzymatically or chemically produced by fragmentation of an intact antibody and/or it may be
recombinantly produced from a gene encoding the partial antibody sequence. Alternatively or
additionally, antigen binding fragment of an antibody may be wholly or partially synthetically
produced. An antigen binding fragment of an antibody may optionally comprise a single chain
antibody fragment. Alternatively or additionally, an antigen binding fragment of an antibody
may comprise multiple chains which are linked together, for example, by disulfide linkages. An
antigen binding fragment of an antibody may optionally comprise a multimolecular complex. A
functional antibody fragment typically comprises at least about 50 amino acids and more
typically comprises at least about 200 amino acids.
[0048]       Antiviral agent: As used herein, the term "antiviral agent" refers to a class of
medication used specifically for treating viral infections by inhibiting, deactivating, or destroying
virus particles. In general, an antiviral agent may be or comprise a compound of any chemical
class (e.g., a small molecule, metal, nucleic acid, polypeptide, lipid and/or carbohydrate). In
some embodiments, an antiviral agent is or comprises an antibody or antibody mimic. In some
embodiments, an antiviral agent is or comprises a nucleic acid agent (e.g., an antisense
oligonucleotide, a siRNA, a shRNA, etc) or mimic thereof. In some embodiments, an antiviral
agent is or comprises a small molecule. In some embodiments, an antiviral agent is or comprises
a naturally-occurring compound (e.g., small molecule). In some embodiments, an antiviral agent
has a chemical structure that is generated and/or modified by the hand of man.
                                                  16

[0049]       Approximately: As used herein, the term "approximately" or "about," as applied to
one or more values of interest, refers to a value that is similar to a stated reference value. In
certain embodiments, the term "approximately" or "about" refers to a range of values that fall
within 25%, 20%, 19%, 18%, 17%, 16%, 15%, 14%, 13%, 12%, 11%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%,
5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 1%, or less in either direction (greater than or less than) of the stated reference
value unless otherwise stated or otherwise evident from the context (except where such number
would exceed 100% of a possible value).
[0050]       Baby: As used herein, the term "baby" refers to a human under two years of age.
Typical body weights for a baby rages from 3 pounds up to 20 pounds.
[0051]       Biologically active: As used herein, the phrase "biologically active" refers to a
characteristic of any substance that has activity in a biological system (e.g., cell culture,
organism, etc.). For instance, a substance that, when administered to an organism, has a
biological effect on that organism, is considered to be biologically active. In particular
embodiments, where a protein or polypeptide is biologically active, a portion of that protein or
polypeptide that shares at least one biological activity of the protein or polypeptide is typically
referred to as a "biologically active" portion.
[0052]       Characteristicportion: As used herein, the term "characteristic portion" is used, in
the broadest sense, to refer to a portion of a substance whose presence (or absence) correlates
with presence (or absence) of a particular feature, attribute, or activity of the substance. In some
embodiments, a characteristic portion of a substance is a portion that is found in the substance
and in related substances that share the particular feature, attribute or activity, but not in those
that do not share the particular feature, attribute or activity. In certain embodiments, a
characteristic portion shares at least one functional characteristic with the intact substance. For
example, in some embodiments, a "characteristic portion" of a protein or polypeptide is one that
contains a continuous stretch of amino acids, or a collection of continuous stretches of amino
acids, that together are characteristic of a protein or polypeptide. In some embodiments, each
such continuous stretch generally contains at least 2, 5, 10, 15, 20, 50, or more amino acids. In
general, a characteristic portion of a substance (e.g., of a protein, antibody, etc.) is one that, in
addition to the sequence and/or structural identity specified above, shares at least one functional
                                                   17

characteristic with the relevant intact substance. In some embodiments, a characteristic portion
may be biologically active.
[0053]       Child: As used herein, the term "child" refers to a human between two and 18 years
of age. Body weight can vary widely across ages and specific children, with a typical range
being 30 pounds to 150 pounds.
[0054]       Combination therapy: The term "combination therapy", as used herein, refers to
those situations in which two or more different pharmaceutical agents are administered in
overlapping regimens so that the subject is simultaneously exposed to both agents.
[0055]       Comparable:The term "comparable" is used herein to describe two (or more) sets of
conditions or circumstances that are sufficiently similar to one another to permit comparison of
results obtained or phenomena observed. In some embodiments, comparable sets of conditions
or circumstances are characterized by a plurality of substantially identical features and one or a
small number of varied features. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that sets of
conditions are comparable to one another when characterized by a sufficient number and type of
substantially identical features to warrant a reasonable conclusion that differences in results
obtained or phenomena observed under the different sets of conditions or circumstances are
caused by or indicative of the variation in those features that are varied.
[0056]       Correspondingto: As used herein, the term "corresponding to" is often used to
designate the position/identity of an amino acid residue in a polypeptide of interest. Those of
ordinary skill will appreciate that, for purposes of simplicity, residues in a polypeptide are often
designated using a canonical numbering system based on a reference related polypeptide, so that
an amino acid "corresponding to" a residue at position 190, for example, need not actually be the
190th amino acid in a particular amino acid chain but rather corresponds to the residue found at
190 in the reference polypeptide; those of ordinary skill in the art readily appreciate how to
identify "corresponding" amino acids.
[0057]      Dosageform: As used herein, the terms "dosage form" and "unit dosage form" refer
to a physically discrete unit of a therapeutic protein (e.g., antibody) for the patient to be treated.
Each unit contains a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired
therapeutic effect. It will be understood, however, that the total dosage of the composition will
be decided by the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment.
                                                  18

[0058]       Dosing regimen: A "dosing regimen" (or "therapeutic regimen"), as that term is used
herein, is a set of unit doses (typically more than one) that are administered individually to a
subject, typically separated by periods of time. In some embodiments, a given therapeutic agent
has a recommended dosing regimen, which may involve one or more doses. In some
embodiments, a dosing regimen comprises a plurality of doses each of which are separated from
one another by a time period of the same length; in some embodiments, a dosing regimen
comprises a plurality of doses and at least two different time periods separating individual doses.
In some embodiments, all doses within a dosing regimen are of the same unit dose amount. In
some embodiments, different doses within a dosing regimen are of different amounts. In some
embodiments, a dosing regimen comprises a first dose in a first dose amount, followed by one or
more additional doses in a second dose amount different from the first dose amount. In some
embodiments, a dosing regimen comprises a first dose in a first dose amount, followed by one or
more additional doses in a second dose amount same as the first dose amount.
[0059]       DVserotype: As used herein, the term "serotype" generally refers to distinct
variations within DVs. The four different DV serotypes (DV1-4) comprising the DV genetic
group differ from one another by approximately 25% to 40% at the amino acid level. The four
serotypes of DV vary in pathogenicities but all are prevalent in areas of Asia, Africa, Central and
South America. Infection with one of these serotypes provides life-long immunity to that
serotype however it also increases risk of severe disease upon a secondary infection from a
heterologous DV serotype.
[0060]       Epitope: As used herein, the term "epitope" has its meaning as understood in the art.
It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that an epitope also known as antigenic
determinant, is a molecular region of an antigen that is recognized by the immune system,
specifically by antibodies, B cells, or T cells. It will be further appreciated that epitopes can be
composed of sugars, lipids, or amino acids. The epitopes of protein antigens are divided into two
categories, conformational epitopes and linear epitopes, based on their structure and interaction
with the paratope (part of an antibody that recognizes the epitope). A conformational epitope is
composed of discontinuous sections of the antigen's amino acid sequence and these epitopes
interact with the paratope based on the 3-D surface features and shape or tertiary structure of the
antigen. Linear epitopes interact with the paratope based on their primary structure and a linear
epitope is formed by a continuous sequence of amino acids from the antigen.
                                                   19

[0061]       Expression: As used herein, "expression" of a nucleic acid sequence refers to one or
more of the following events: (1) production of an RNA template from a DNA sequence (e.g., by
transcription); (2) processing of an RNA transcript (e.g., by splicing, editing, 5' cap formation,
and/or 3' end formation); (3) translation of an RNA into a polypeptide or protein; and/or (4)
post-translational modification of a polypeptide or protein.
[0062]       Functional: As used herein, a "functional" biological molecule is a biological
molecule in a form in which it exhibits a property and/or activity by which it is characterized.
[0063]       Gene: As used herein, the term "gene" has its meaning as understood in the art. It
will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that the term "gene" may include gene
regulatory sequences (e.g., promoters, enhancers, etc.) and/or intron sequences. It will further be
appreciated that definitions of gene include references to nucleic acids that do not encode
proteins but rather encode functional RNA molecules such as tRNAs, RNAi-inducing agents,
etc. For the purpose of clarity we note that, as used in the present application, the term "gene"
generally refers to a portion of a nucleic acid that encodes a protein; the term may optionally
encompass regulatory sequences, as will be clear from context to those of ordinary skill in the
art. This definition is not intended to exclude application of the term "gene" to non-protein
coding expression units but rather to clarify that, in most cases, the term as used in this document
refers to a protein-coding nucleic acid.
[0064]       Gene product or expression product: As used herein, the term "gene product" or
"expression product" generally refers to an RNA transcribed from the gene (pre-and/or post
processing) or a polypeptide (pre- and/or post-modification) encoded by an RNA transcribed
from the gene.
[0065]       Homology: As used herein, the term "homology" refers to the overall relatedness
between polymeric molecules, e.g., between nucleic acid molecules (e.g., DNA molecules and/or
RNA molecules) and/or between polypeptide molecules. In some embodiments, polymeric
molecules are considered to be "homologous" to one another if their sequences are at least 25%,
30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 99%
identical. In some embodiments, polymeric molecules are considered to be "homologous" to one
another if their sequences are at least 2 5%, 3 0%, 3 5%, 4 0%,  4 5%, 50%, 55%,  6 0%, 6 5%, 7 0 %,
75%, 8 0%, 8 5%, 9 0%, 9 5%, or   9 9 % similar.
                                                  20

[0066]       Identity: As used herein, the term "identity" refers to the overall relatedness between
polymeric molecules, e.g., between nucleic acid molecules (e.g., DNA molecules and/or RNA
molecules) and/or between polypeptide molecules. Calculation of the percent identity of two
nucleic acid sequences, for example, can be performed by aligning the two sequences for optimal
comparison purposes (e.g., gaps can be introduced in one or both of a first and a second nucleic
acid sequences for optimal alignment and non-identical sequences can be disregarded for
comparison purposes). In certain embodiments, the length of a sequence aligned for comparison
purposes is at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at
least 90%, at least 95%, or substantially 100% of the length of the reference sequence. The
nucleotides at corresponding nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the
first sequence is occupied by the same nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second
sequence, then the molecules are identical at that position. The percent identity between the two
sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences, taking into
account the number of gaps, and the length of each gap, which needs to be introduced for
optimal alignment of the two sequences. The comparison of sequences and determination of
percent identity between two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm.
For example, the percent identity between two nucleotide sequences can be determined using the
algorithm of Meyers and Miller (CABIOS, 1989, 4: 11-17), which has been incorporated into the
ALIGN program (version 2.0) using a PAM 120 weight residue table, a gap length penalty of 12
and a gap penalty of 4. The percent identity between two nucleotide sequences can,
alternatively, be determined using the GAP program in the GCG software package using an
NWSgapdna.CMP matrix.
[0067]       Isolated: As used herein, the term "isolated" refers to a substance and/or entity that
has been (1) separated from at least some of the components with which it was associated when
initially produced (whether in nature and/or in an experimental setting), and/or (2) produced,
prepared, and/or manufactured by the hand of man. Isolated substances and/or entities may be
separated from about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%, about
7 0%  , about 80%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about
96%, about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or more than about 99% of the other components with
which they were initially associated. In some embodiments, isolated agents are about 80%,
about 85%, about 90%, about 91%, about 92%, about 93%, about 94%, about 95%, about 96%,
                                                  21

about 97%, about 98%, about 99%, or more than about 99% pure. As used herein, a substance is
"pure" if it is substantially free of other components. As used herein, calculation of percent
purity of isolated substances and/or entities should not include excipients (e.g., buffer, solvent,
water, etc.).
[0068]       Mimotope: As used herein, the term "mimotope" refers to a macromolecule which
mimics the structure of an epitope. In some embodiments, a mimotope elicits an antibody
response identical or similar to that elicited by its corresponding epitope. In some embodiments,
an antibody that recognizes an epitope also recognizes a mimotope which mimics that epitope.
In some embodiments, a mimotope is a peptide. In some embodiments, a mimotope is a small
molecule, carbohydrate, lipid, or nucleic acid. In some embodiments, mimotopes are peptide or
non-peptide mimotopes of conserved DV epitopes. In some embodiments, by mimicking the
structure of a defined viral epitope, a mimotope interferes with the ability of DV virus particles
to bind to its natural binding partners (e.g., DV target receptor, Rab5, GRP78), e.g., by binding
to the natural binding partner itself.
[0069]       Mutant: As used herein, the term "mutant" refers to an entity that shows significant
structural identity with a reference entity but differs structurally from the reference entity in the
presence or level of one or more chemical moieties as compared with the reference entity. In
many embodiments, a mutant also differs functionally from its reference entity. In general,
whether a particular entity is properly considered to be a "mutant" of a reference entity is based
on its degree of structural identity with the reference entity. As will be appreciated by those
skilled in the art, any biological or chemical reference entity has certain characteristic structural
elements. A mutant, by definition, is a distinct chemical entity that shares one or more such
characteristic structural elements. To give but a few examples, a small molecule may have a
characteristic core structural element (e.g., a macrocycle core) and/or one or more characteristic
pendent moieties so that a mutant of the small molecule is one that shares the core structural
element and the characteristic pendent moieties but differs in other pendent moieties and/or in
types of bonds present (single vs double, E vs Z, etc) within the core, a polypeptide may have a
characteristic sequence element comprised of a plurality of amino acids having designated
positions relative to one another in linear or three-dimensional space and/or contributing to a
particular biological function, a nucleic acid may have a characteristic sequence element
comprised of a plurality of nucleotide residues having designated positions relative to on another
                                                   22

in linear or three-dimensional space. For example, a mutant polypeptide may differ from a
reference polypeptide as a result of one or more differences in amino acid sequence and/or one or
more differences in chemical moieties (e.g., carbohydrates, lipids, etc) covalently attached to the
polypeptide backbone. In some embodiments, a mutant polypeptide shows an overall sequence
identity with a reference polypeptide that is at least 85%, 86%, 87%, 88%, 89%, 90%, 91%,
92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, or 99%. Alternatively or additionally, in some embodiments,
a mutant polypeptide does not share at least one characteristic sequence element with a reference
polypeptide. In some embodiments, the reference polypeptide has one or more biological
activities. In some embodiments, a mutant polypeptide shares one or more of the biological
activities of the reference polypeptide. In some embodiments, a mutant polypeptide lacks one or
more of the biological activities of the reference polypeptide. In some embodiments, a mutant
polypeptide shows a reduced level of one or more biological activities as compared with the
reference polypeptide.
[0070]       Nucleic acid: As used herein, the term "nucleic acid," in its broadest sense, refers to
any compound and/or substance that is or can be incorporated into an oligonucleotide chain. In
some embodiments, a nucleic acid is a compound and/or substance that is or can be incorporated
into an oligonucleotide chain via a phosphodiester linkage. In some embodiments, "nucleic
acid" refers to individual nucleic acid residues (e.g., nucleotides and/or nucleosides). In some
embodiments, "nucleic acid" refers to an oligonucleotide chain comprising individual nucleic
acid residues. As used herein, the terms "oligonucleotide" and "polynucleotide" can be used
interchangeably. In some embodiments, "nucleic acid" encompasses RNA as well as single
and/or double-stranded DNA and/or cDNA. Furthermore, the terms "nucleic acid," "DNA,"
"RNA," and/or similar terms include nucleic acid analogs, i.e., analogs having other than a
phosphodiester backbone. For example, the so-called "peptide nucleic acids," which are known
in the art and have peptide bonds instead of phosphodiester bonds in the backbone, are
considered within the scope of the present invention. The term "nucleotide sequence encoding
an amino acid sequence" includes all nucleotide sequences that are degenerate versions of each
other and/or encode the same amino acid sequence. Nucleotide sequences that encode proteins
and/or RNA may include introns. Nucleic acids can be purified from natural sources, produced
using recombinant expression systems and optionally purified, chemically synthesized, etc.
Where appropriate, e.g., in the case of chemically synthesized molecules, nucleic acids can
                                                  23

comprise nucleoside analogs such as analogs having chemically modified bases or sugars,
backbone modifications, etc. A nucleic acid sequence is presented in the 5' to 3' direction unless
otherwise indicated. The term "nucleic acid segment" is used herein to refer to a nucleic acid
sequence that is a portion of a longer nucleic acid sequence. In many embodiments, a nucleic
acid segment comprises at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or more residues. In some embodiments, a
nucleic acid is or comprises natural nucleosides (e.g., adenosine, thymidine, guanosine, cytidine,
uridine, deoxyadenosine, deoxythymidine, deoxyguanosine, and deoxycytidine); nucleoside
analogs (e.g., 2-aminoadenosine, 2-thiothymidine, inosine, pyrrolo-pyrimidine, 3-methyl
adenosine, 5-methylcytidine, C-5 propynyl-cytidine, C-5 propynyl-uridine, 2-aminoadenosine,
C5-bromouridine, C5-fluorouridine, C5-iodouridine, C5-propynyl-uridine, C5-propynyl
cytidine, C5-methylcytidine, 2-aminoadenosine, 7-deazaadenosine, 7-deazaguanosine, 8
oxoadenosine, 8-oxoguanosine, 0(6)-methylguanine, and 2-thiocytidine); chemically modified
bases; biologically modified bases (e.g., methylated bases); intercalated bases; modified sugars
(e.g., 2'-fluororibose, ribose, 2'-deoxyribose, arabinose, and hexose); and/or modified phosphate
groups (e.g., phosphorothioates and 5'-N-phosphoramidite linkages). In some embodiments, the
present invention is specifically directed to "unmodified nucleic acids," meaning nucleic acids
(e.g., polynucleotides and residues, including nucleotides and/or nucleosides) that have not been
chemically modified in order to facilitate or achieve delivery.
[0071]       Patient: As used herein, the term "patient" or "subject" refers to any organism to
which a provided composition may be administered, e.g., for experimental, diagnostic,
prophylactic, cosmetic, and/or therapeutic purposes. Typical patients include animals (e.g.,
mammals such as mice, rats, rabbits, non-human primates, and/or humans). In some
embodiments, a patient is a human. A human includes pre and post natal forms.
[0072]       Pharmaceuticallyacceptable: The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" as used
herein, refers to substances that, within the scope of sound medical judgment, are suitable for use
in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity, irritation,
allergic response, or other problem or complication, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk
ratio.
[0073]       Pharmaceuticallyacceptable carrier:As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier" means a pharmaceutically-acceptable material, composition or vehicle, such
                                                  24

as a liquid or solid filler, diluent, excipient, or solvent encapsulating material, involved in
carrying or transporting the subject compound from one organ, or portion of the body, to another
organ, or portion of the body. Each carrier must be "acceptable" in the sense of being
compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some
examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers include: sugars,
such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches, such as corn starch and potato starch; cellulose,
and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose
acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatin; talc; excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository
waxes; oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and
soybean oil; glycols, such as propylene glycol; polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol and
polyethylene glycol; esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar; buffering agents, such as
magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid; pyrogen-free water; isotonic
saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl alcohol; pH buffered solutions; polyesters, polycarbonates and/or
polyanhydrides; and other non-toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical
formulations.
[0074]       Pharmaceuticalcomposition: As used herein, the term "pharmaceutical composition"
refers to an active agent, formulated together with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers. In some embodiments, active agent is present in unit dose amount appropriate for
administration in a therapeutic regimen that shows a statistically significant probability of
achieving a predetermined therapeutic effect when administered to a relevant population. In
some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions may be specially formulated for administration
in solid or liquid form, including those adapted for the following: oral administration, for
example, drenches (aqueous or non-aqueous solutions or suspensions), tablets, e.g., those
targeted for buccal, sublingual, and systemic absorption, boluses, powders, granules, pastes for
application to the tongue; parenteral administration, for example, by subcutaneous,
intramuscular, intravenous or epidural injection as, for example, a sterile solution or suspension,
or sustained-release formulation; topical application, for example, as a cream, ointment, or a
controlled-release patch or spray applied to the skin, lungs, or oral cavity; intravaginally or
intrarectally, for example, as a pessary, cream, or foam; sublingually; ocularly; transdermally; or
nasally, pulmonary, and to other mucosal surfaces.
                                                     25

[0075]      Polypeptide: As used herein, a "polypeptide", generally speaking, is a string of at
least two amino acids attached to one another by a peptide bond. In some embodiments, a
polypeptide may include at least 3-5 amino acids, each of which is attached to others by way of
at least one peptide bond. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that polypeptides
sometimes include "non-natural" amino acids or other entities that nonetheless are capable of
integrating into a polypeptide chain, optionally.
[0076]      Protein: As used herein, the term "protein" refers to a polypeptide (i.e., a string of at
least two amino acids linked to one another by peptide bonds). Proteins may include moieties
other than amino acids (e.g., may be glycoproteins, proteoglycans, etc.) and/or may be otherwise
processed or modified. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a "protein" can be a
complete polypeptide chain as produced by a cell (with or without a signal sequence), or can be a
characteristic portion thereof. Those of ordinary skill will appreciate that a protein can
sometimes include more than one polypeptide chain, for example linked by one or more disulfide
bonds or associated by other means. Polypeptides may contain 1-amino acids, d-amino acids, or
both and may contain any of a variety of amino acid modifications or analogs known in the art.
Useful modifications include, e.g., terminal acetylation, amidation, methylation, etc. In some
embodiments, proteins may comprise natural amino acids, non-natural amino acids, synthetic
amino acids, and combinations thereof. The term "peptide" is generally used to refer to a
polypeptide having a length of less than about 100 amino acids, less than about 50 amino acids,
less than 20 amino acids, or less than 10 amino acids. In some embodiments, proteins are
antibodies, antibody fragments, biologically active portions thereof, and/or characteristic
portions thereof.
[0077]      Recurrent DV infection: As used herein, a "recurrent DV infection" refers to
reemergence of clinical and/or laboratory evidence of infection, e.g., one or more symptoms of
infection or the presence of circulating DV particles and/or DV particles in the subject's liver.
[0078]      Refractory: The term "refractory" as used herein, refers to any subject that does not
respond with an expected clinical efficacy following the administration of provided compositions
as normally observed by practicing medical personnel.
[0079]      Serotype: In general, a "serotype" or "serovar" refers to distinct variations within a
species of bacteria or viruses or among immune cells of different individuals. These
                                                  26

microorganisms are typically classified together based on their cell surface antigens, allowing the
epidemiologic classification of organisms to the sub-species level.
[0080]      Small Molecule: In general, a "small molecule" is a molecule that is less than about 5
kilodaltons (kD) in size. In some embodiments, the small molecule is less than about 4 kD, 3
kD, about 2 kD, or about 1 kD. In some embodiments, the small molecule is less than about 800
daltons (D), about 600 D, about 500 D, about 400 D, about 300 D, about 200 D, or about 100 D.
In some embodiments, a small molecule is less than about 2000 g/mol, less than about 1500
g/mol, less than about 1000 g/mol, less than about 800 g/mol, or less than about 500 g/mol. In
some embodiments, small molecules are non-polymeric. In some embodiments, in accordance
with the present invention, small molecules are not proteins, polypeptides, oligopeptides,
peptides, polynucleotides, oligonucleotides, polysaccharides, glycoproteins, proteoglycans, etc.
[0081]      Substantially: As used herein, the term "substantially" refers to the qualitative
condition of exhibiting total or near-total extent or degree of a characteristic or property of
interest. One of ordinary skill in the biological arts will understand that biological and chemical
phenomena rarely, if ever, go to completion and/or proceed to completeness or achieve or avoid
an absolute result. The term "substantially" is therefore used herein to capture the potential lack
of completeness inherent in many biological and chemical phenomena.
[0082]      Substantialsequence homology: The phrase "substantial homology" is used herein to
refer to a comparison between amino acid or nucleic acid sequences. As will be appreciated by
those of ordinary skill in the art, two sequences are generally considered to be "substantially
homologous" if they contain homologous residues in corresponding positions. Homologous
residues may be identical residues. Alternatively, homologous residues may be non-identical
residues will appropriately similar structural and/or functional characteristics. For example, as is
well known by those of ordinary skill in the art, certain amino acids are typically classified as
"hydrophobic" or "hydrophilic"amino acids., and/or as having "polar" or "non-polar" side
chains Substitution of one amino acid for another of the same type may often be considered a
"homologous" substitution. Typical amino acid categorizations are summarized below:
  canine          Ala          A          nonpolar      neutral        1.8
 Arginie          Arg          R           >olar        >ositive       .4.5
 Asparagine       Asn          N           >olar        neutral        -3.5
 Aspartic acid    Asp          D           >olar        negative       .3.5
                                                  27

Cysteine             ys          __       nonpolar       neutral        2.5
Glutamic acid      Glu         E          polar          negative       -3.5
Glutamine          31n                    polar          neutral        -3.5
Glycminey                       J         nonpolar       neutral        -0.4
Histidine          His         H          polar          positive       -3.2
Isoleucine         Ile          I         nonpolar       neutral        4.5
Leucine            Leu         L          nonpolar       neutral        3.8
Lysime             Lys         K          polar          positive       -3.9
Methionine         Met         M          nonpolar       neutral        1.9
Phenylalanine      Phe         F          nonpolar       neutral        2.8
Proline            Pro         P          nonpolar       neutral        -1.6
Serine             Ser         S          polar          neutral        -0.8
Threonine          Thr          T         polar          neutral        -0.7
Tryptophan         Trp         W          nonpolar       neutral        -0.9
Tyosine            Tyr         Y          polar          neutral        -1.3
Valine             Val         V          nonpolar       neutral        4.2
[0083]
          Ambiguous Amino Acids                        3-Letter               1-Letter
Asparagine or aspartic acid                      Asx                    B
Glutamine or glutamic acid                       3lx                    Z
Leucine or Isoleucine                            Xle                    i
Unspecified or unknown amino acid               JXaa                    X
[0084]      As is well known in this art, amino acid or nucleic acid sequences may be compared
using any of a variety of algorithms, including those available in commercial computer programs
such as BLASTN for nucleotide sequences and BLASTP, gapped BLAST, and PSI-BLAST for
amino acid sequences. Exemplary such programs are described in Altschul, et al., Basic local
alignment search tool, J. Mol. Biol., 215(3): 403-410, 1990; Altschul, et al., Methods in
Enzymology; Altschul, et al., "Gapped BLAST and PSI-BLAST: a new generation of protein
database search programs", Nucleic Acids Res. 25:3389-3402, 1997; Baxevanis, et al.,
Bioinformatics : A PracticalGuide to the Analysis of Genes and Proteins, Wiley, 1998; and
Misener, et al., (eds.), Bioinformatics Methods and Protocols(Methods in Molecular Biology,
Vol. 132), Humana Press, 1999; all of the foregoing of which are incorporated herein by
reference. In addition to identifying homologous sequences, the programs mentioned above
typically provide an indication of the degree of homology. In some embodiments, two sequences
are considered to be substantially homologous if at least 50%, at least 55%, at least 60%, at least
65%, at least 7 0%, at least 7 5%, at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 91%, at least
                                                   28

92%, at least 93%, at least 94%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%, at least
99% or more of their corresponding residues are homologous over a relevant stretch of
residues. In some embodiments, the relevant stretch is a complete sequence. In some
embodiments, the relevant stretch is at least 10, at least 15, at least 20, at least 25, at least 30, at
least 35, at least 40, at least 45, at least 50, at least 55, at least 60, at least 65, at least 70, at least
75, at least 80, at least 85, at least 90, at least 95, at least 100, at least 125, at least 150, at least
175, at least 200, at least 225, at least 250, at least 275, at least 300, at least 325, at least 350, at
least 375, at least 400, at least 425, at least 450, at least 475, at least 500 or more residues.
[0085]       Substantialidentity: The phrase "substantial identity" is used herein to refer to a
comparison between amino acid or nucleic acid sequences. As will be appreciated by those of
ordinary skill in the art, two sequences are generally considered to be "substantially identical" if
they contain identical residues in corresponding positions. As is well known in this art, amino
acid or nucleic acid sequences may be compared using any of a variety of algorithms, including
those available in commercial computer programs such as BLASTN for nucleotide sequences
and BLASTP, gapped BLAST, and PSI-BLAST for amino acid sequences. Exemplary such
programs are described in Altschul, et al., Basic local alignment search tool, J Mol. Biol.,
215(3): 403-410, 1990; Altschul, et al., Methods in Enzymology; Altschul et al., Nucleic Acids
Res. 25:3389-3402, 1997; Baxevanis et al., Bioinformatics : A PracticalGuide to the Analysis of
Genes and Proteins,Wiley, 1998; and Misener, et al., (eds.), BioinformaticsMethods and
Protocols(Methods in Molecular Biology, Vol. 132), Humana Press, 1999. In addition to
identifying identical sequences, the programs mentioned above typically provide an indication of
the degree of identity. In some embodiments, two sequences are considered to be substantially
identical if at least 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%,
95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more of their corresponding residues are identical over a relevant
stretch of residues. In some embodiments, the relevant stretch is a complete sequence. In some
embodiments, the relevant stretch is at least 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75,
80,85,90,95,100,125,150,175,200,225,250,275,300,325,350,375,400,425,450,475,
500 or more residues.
[0086]       Sufferingfrom: An individual who is "suffering from" a disease, disorder, or
condition (e.g., DV) has been diagnosed with and/or exhibits one or more symptoms of the
disease, disorder, or condition. DV infection is frequently asymptomatic. In some embodiments,
                                                      29

an individual who is suffering from DV has been exposed to and/or infected with DV, but does
not display any symptoms of DV infection and/or has not been diagnosed with DV infection. In
some embodiments, an individual who is suffering from DV is an individual who has one or
more DV particles in his/her blood.
[0087]       Susceptible to: An individual who is "susceptible to" a disease, disorder, or condition
(e.g., DV) is at risk for developing the disease, disorder, or condition. In some embodiments, an
individual who is susceptible to a disease, disorder, or condition does not display any symptoms
of the disease, disorder, or condition. In some embodiments, an individual who is susceptible to
a disease, disorder, or condition has not been diagnosed with the disease, disorder, and/or
condition. In some embodiments, an individual who is susceptible to a disease, disorder, or
condition is an individual who has been exposed to conditions associated with development of
the disease, disorder, or condition (e.g., the individual has been exposed to DV). In some
embodiments, a risk of developing a disease, disorder, and/or condition is a population-based
risk (e.g., intravenous drug users; recipients of donated blood, blood products, and organs prior
to 1992, when such products began to be screened; healthcare workers handling needles; babies
born to DV-infected mothers; etc.).
[0088]       Symptoms are reduced: According to the present invention, "symptoms are reduced"
when one or more symptoms of a particular disease, disorder or condition is reduced in
magnitude (e.g., intensity, severity, etc.) or frequency. For purposes of clarity, a delay in the
onset of a particular symptom is considered one form of reducing the frequency of that symptom.
To give but a few examples, exemplary symptoms of DV include, but are not limited to, sudden
onset of fever, high fever (often over 40 C), muscle and joint pains, headache, vomiting,
diarrhea, occurrence of a rash as flushed skin or measles-like rash, petechiae (small red spots
caused by broken capillaries that do not disappear when skin is pressed), bleeding from the
mucous membranes, low white blood cell count, low platelets, metabolic acidosis, elevated level
of aminotransferase from the liver, plasma leakage resulting in hemoconcentration (indicated by
a rising hematocrit) and hypoalbuminemia, fluid accumulation in the chest and abdominal cavity
(e.g., pleural effusion or ascites), gastrointestinal bleeding, shock and hemorrhage, positive
tourniquet test, hypotension, infection of the brain or heart, impairment of vital organs (e.g.,
liver), neurological disorders such as transverse myelitis, and/or combinations thereof. It is not
intended that the present invention be limited only to cases where the symptoms are eliminated.
                                                    30

The present invention specifically contemplates treatment such that one or more symptoms is/are
reduced (and the condition of the subject is thereby "improved"), albeit not completely
eliminated.
[0089]       Therapeutic agent: As used herein, the phrase "therapeutic agent" refers to any agent
that elicits a desired pharmacological effect when administered to an organism. In some
embodiments, an agent is considered to be a therapeutic agent if it demonstrates a statistically
significant effect across an appropriate population. In some embodiments, the appropriate
population may be a population of model organisms. In some embodiments, an appropriate
population may be defined by various criteria, such as a certain age group, gender, genetic
background, preexisting clinical conditions, etc. In some embodiments, a therapeutic agent is
any substance that can be used to alleviate, ameliorate, relieve, inhibit, prevent, delay onset of,
reduce severity of, and/or reduce incidence of one or more symptoms or features of a disease,
disorder, and/or condition.
[0090]       Therapeuticallyeffective amount: As used herein, the term "therapeutically effective
amount" refers to an amount of a therapeutic protein which confers a therapeutic effect on the
treated subject, at a reasonable benefit/risk ratio applicable to any medical treatment. The
therapeutic effect may be objective (i.e., measurable by some test or marker) or subjective (i.e.,
subject gives an indication of or feels an effect). In particular, the "therapeutically effective
amount" refers to an amount of a therapeutic protein or composition effective to treat,
ameliorate, or prevent a desired disease or condition, or to exhibit a detectable therapeutic or
preventative effect, such as by ameliorating symptoms associated with the disease, preventing or
delaying the onset of the disease, and/or also lessening the severity or frequency of symptoms of
the disease. A therapeutically effective amount is commonly administered in a dosing regimen
that may comprise multiple unit doses. For any particular therapeutic protein, a therapeutically
effective amount (and/or an appropriate unit dose within an effective dosing regimen) may vary,
for example, depending on route of administration, on combination with other pharmaceutical
agents. Also, the specific therapeutically effective amount (and/or unit dose) for any particular
patient may depend upon a variety of factors including the disorder being treated and the severity
of the disorder; the activity of the specific pharmaceutical agent employed; the specific
composition employed; the age, body weight, general health, sex and diet of the patient; the time
of administration, route of administration, and/or rate of excretion or metabolism of the specific
                                                   31

fusion protein employed; the duration of the treatment; and like factors as is well known in the
medical arts.
[0091]       Treatment: As used herein, the term "treatment" (also "treat" or "treating") refers to
any administration of a substance (e.g., provided compositions) that partially or completely
alleviates, ameliorates, relives, inhibits, delays onset of, reduces severity of, and/or reduces
incidence of one or more symptoms, features, and/or causes of a particular disease, disorder,
and/or condition (e.g., DV). Such treatment may be of a subject who does not exhibit signs of
the relevant disease, disorder and/or condition and/or of a subject who exhibits only early signs
of the disease, disorder, and/or condition. Alternatively or additionally, such treatment may be
of a subject who exhibits one or more established signs of the relevant disease, disorder and/or
condition. In some embodiments, treatment may be of a subject who has been diagnosed as
suffering from the relevant disease, disorder, and/or condition. In some embodiments, treatment
may be of a subject known to have one or more susceptibility factors that are statistically
correlated with increased risk of development of the relevant disease, disorder, and/or condition.
[0092]       Unit dose: The expression "unit dose" as used herein refers to an amount
administered as a single dose and/or in a physically discrete unit of a pharmaceutical
composition. In many embodiments, a unit dose contains a predetermined quantity of an active
agent. In some embodiments, a unit dose contains an entire single dose of the agent. In some
embodiments, more than one unit dose is administered to achieve a total single dose. In some
embodiments, administration of multiple unit doses is required, or expected to be required, in
order to achieve an intended effect. A unit dose may be, for example, a volume of liquid (e.g.,
an acceptable carrier) containing a predetermined quantity of one or more therapeutic agents, a
predetermined amount of one or more therapeutic agents in solid form, a sustained release
formulation or drug delivery device containing a predetermined amount of one or more
therapeutic agents, etc. It will be appreciated that a unit dose may be present in a formulation
that includes any of a variety of components in addition to the therapeutic agent(s). For example,
acceptable carriers (e.g., pharmaceutically acceptable carriers), diluents, stabilizers, buffers,
preservatives, etc., may be included as described infra. It will be appreciated by those skilled in
the art, in many embodiments, a total appropriate daily dosage of a particular therapeutic agent
may comprise a portion, or a plurality, of unit doses, and may be decided, for example, by the
attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment. In some embodiments, the
                                                   32

specific effective dose level for any particular subject or organism may depend upon a variety of
factors including the disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder; activity of specific
active compound employed; specific composition employed; age, body weight, general health,
sex and diet of the subject; time of administration, and rate of excretion of the specific active
compound employed; duration of the treatment; drugs and/or additional therapies used in
combination or coincidental with specific compound(s) employed, and like factors well known in
the medical arts.
[0093]        Vaccination: As used herein, the term "vaccination" refers to the administration of a
composition intended to generate an immune response, for example to a disease-causing agent.
For the purposes of the present invention, vaccination can be administered before, during, and/or
after exposure to a disease-causing agent, and in certain embodiments, before, during, and/or
shortly after exposure to the agent. In some embodiments, vaccination includes multiple
administrations, appropriately spaced in time, of a vaccinating composition.
[0094]        Vector: As used herein, "vector" refers to a nucleic acid molecule capable of
transporting another nucleic acid to which it is associated. In some embodiment, vectors are
capable of extra-chromosomal replication and/or expression of nucleic acids to which they are
linked in a host cell such as a eukaryotic and/or prokaryotic cell. Vectors capable of directing
the expression of operatively linked genes are referred to herein as "expression vectors."
[0095]        Wild-type: As used herein, the term "wild-type" has its art-understood meaning that
refers to an entity having a structure and/or activity as found in nature in a "normal" (as
contrasted with mutant, diseased, altered, etc) state or context. Those of ordinary skill in the art
will appreciate that wild type genes and polypeptides often exist in multiple different forms (e.g.,
alleles).
                                            DV Nomenclature
[0096]        It is well known by those skilled in the art that DV nomenclature typically utilizes
Roman numerals (e.g., "I," "II," "III," "IV," etc.) that represents DV genotype and a lowercase
letter (e.g., "a," "b," etc.) that represents DV subtype. Although the rules of nomenclature are
generally accepted in the art, those of ordinary skill in the art recognize that the rules of
nomenclature are not always strictly followed in publications, presentations, conversation, etc.
                                                    33

Thus, those skilled in the art would recognize that, for example, it is implicit that "DV Ia," "DV
genotype la," and "DV subtype la" could be used interchangeably by one of skill in the art, and
that all three terms are intended to refer to DV genotype I, subtype a.
[0097]       As used herein, Roman numerals (e.g., "I," "II," "III," "IV," etc.) are used to refer to
DV genotype, and lowercase letters (e.g., "a," "b," etc.) are used to refer to DV subtypes. It will
also be understood that, when DV of a particular genotype is referred to herein, it is meant to
encompass all subtypes of the named genotype. To give but one example, "genotype I" is used
herein to refer to all subtypes of genotype I (e.g., genotype I, subtype a; genotype I, subtype b;
etc.).
[0098]       As used herein, any Roman numeral (e.g., "I," "II," "Ill," "IV," etc.) that is present
after the genotype and subtype designations will be understood to refer to the DV strain.
                           Detailed Description of Certain Embodiments
[0099]       The present invention provides useful anti-DV antibody agents with particular
structural and/or functional characteristics, as well as compositions and methods relating to such
antibody agents.
Dengue Virus (DV) infection
[00100]      DV infection represents a major arthropod-borne viral disease, with over 3.5 billion
people living in areas of risk for the disease, and over 200 million infections worldwide,
resulting in 21, 000 deaths per year. Notably, the annual average number of reported Dengue
Virus infections, the geographical spread, and the severity of disease have all increased
dramatically in recent years. Dengue Virus epidemics can cause significant morbidity, leading to
substantial economic costs and health care impacts (Guzman et al, 2010 Nature Reviews
Microbiol. 8:S7-16).
[00101]      DV infection is caused by any of the four related viruses primarily transmitted by
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes and is endemic to tropical and sub-tropical regions. Infection in a
mammal is initiated by injection of the DV during the blood meal of an infected Aedes mosquito,
whereby the DV is primarily deposited in the extravascular tissues. The incubation period of DV
                                                   34

after a mosquito bite is between 3 to 14 days. Dendritic cells, monocytes, and macrophages are
among the first targets of DV. After initial replication in the skin and lymphatic ganglia, DV
appears in the blood in the course of the acute febrile stage, generally 3 to 5 days.
[00102]      Routine laboratory diagnosis of Dengue Virus infection is based on isolation of the
DV and/or detection of antibodies specific to DV. Infection can cause several different
syndromes, influenced by age and/or immunological status of the infected individual. Primary
DV infection may be asymptomatic or may result in Dengue Fever. Dengue Fever is
characterized by a high fever that typically has two phases and at least one additional symptom
such as headache (often severe), pain (which can be severe) in any of a variety of body parts
(e.g., eye, joint, muscle, bone, abdomen), skin eruptions or rash, mild bleeding manifestation
(e.g., nose or gum bleeding, petechiae, easy bruising), lymphadenopathy, vomiting, discolored
(black) stools, mood effects such as prostration, drowsiness or irritability, skin that is pale, cold,
or clammy, difficulty breathing, low white cell count, circulating viral particles in one or more of
an organism's tissues (e.g., blood, bone marrow, etc) and/or organs (e.g., liver) (see, for example,
Center for Disease Control description; see also US 2011/0189226). Reduced leukocyte and
platelet numbers frequently occur.
[00103]      Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever (DHF) is a potentially deadly complication of DV
infection. DHF is characterized by extreme lethargy and drowsiness, coupled with the high fever
and other symptoms associated with Dengue Fever. Increased vascular permeability and
abnormal homeostasis can lead to a decrease in blood volume, hypotension, and in severe cases,
hypovolemic shock and internal bleeding. Two factors that appear to play a major role in the
occurrence of hemorrhagic Dengue Fever are: rapid viral replication with a high level of viremia;
and a major inflammatory response with the release of high levels of inflammatory mediators.
Without treatment, the mortality rate for hemorrhagic Dengue Fever can reach 10%.
[00104]      Children are particularly susceptible to the effects of DV infection, which can
increase dramatically with repeated exposure. During initial Dengue Virus infections, most
children experience subclinical infection or mild undifferentiated febrile syndromes. During
secondary Dengue Virus infections the pathophysiology of the disease often changes
dramatically. Sequential infections can result in an acute vascular permeability syndrome known
as Dengue Shock Syndrome (DSS). DSS is usually a progression of DHF and is frequently fatal.
                                                  35

DSS is characterized by rapid and poor volume pulse, hypotension, cold extremities, and
restlessness. Without medical intervention, the fatality rate for DSS can reach 40-50% (Thullier
et al, 1999 Journal of Biotechnology 69:183-190). The severity of DSS is age-dependent, with
vascular leakage being most severe in young children.
[00105]     DV infections in adults are often accompanied by a tendency for bleeding that can
lead to severe hemorrhage. DV infections can be life-threatening when they occur in individuals
with asthma, diabetes, and/or other chronic diseases (Guzman et al, 2010 Nature Reviews
Microbiol. 8:S7-16).
[00106]     The leading theory proposed to explain the increased risk of severe disease in
secondary cases of DV is antibody dependent enhancement (ADE). Dengue Viruses (DVs)
display antibody epitopes that are unique to each serotype as well as epitopes that are shared
between or among serotypes. A subject has experienced (and recovered from) a primary DV
infection may develops robust antibody responses that cross react with all DV serotypes (DV1
4). However, despite the cross reactivity, antibodies only prevent re-infection by the same
(homologous) serotype and individuals are susceptible to subsequent infections with different
(heterologous) serotypes . Individuals experiencing a secondary Dengue infection with a new
serotype face a much greater risk of developing DHF, indicating that pre-existing immunity to
DV can exacerbate disease. The ADE theory of DV postulates that weakly neutralizing
antibodies from the first infection bind to the second serotype and enhance infection of Fc7R
bearing myeloid cells such as monocytes and macrophages (Wahala et al., 2011 Viruses 3: 2374
2395).
[00107]     At least three types of mechanisms have been proposed to explain development of
severe forms of DV infection: (i) they may be caused by particularly virulent virus strains; (ii)
pre-existing subneutralizing antibodies could enhance the antibody-mediated uptake of DV by
monocytes or macrophages, which are designated as host cells of DV (e.g., ADE); and (iii)
antibodies directed against a non-structural protein of the virus (NS 1) may cross-react with
fibrinogen, thrombocytes and endothelial cells, thus triggering hemorrhages.
[00108]     Currently, there is no specific treatment for Dengue Fever. Recommended therapies
address symptoms, and include bed rest, control of the fever and pain through antipyretics and/or
analgesics, and adequate hydration. Efforts focus on balancing liquid losses, replacement of
                                                  36

coagulation factors and the infusion of heparin. The sequence and antigenic variability of DVs
have challenged efforts to develop effective vaccines or therapeutics (Whitehead et al., 2007
Nature Reviews Microbiology 5:518-528). Unfortunately, the leading vaccine candidate recently
demonstrated protective efficacy of only 30% in a phase II study (Thomas et al., 2011 Curr Op
Infectious Disease 24:442-450; Sabchareon et al., 2012 Lancet 380(9853):1559-1567).
Therefore, there is a need for the development of improved DV therapies, vaccines. Particularly
valuable would be the development of treatments applicable to all DV serotypes. Such a therapy
would have a tremendous impact on human health, especially in developing countries.
DV antigens
[00109]     DV infections are caused by four viruses (DVl-4), which are of similar serological
type but differ antigenically. DVs are positive single-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the
genus flavivirus within the Flaviviridaefamily. The virion comprises a spherical particle, 40-50
  n in diameter, with a lipopolysaccharide envelope. The RNA genome, which is approximately
11 kb in length, comprises a 5' type I end but lacks a 3' poly-A tail. The organization of the
genome comprises the following elements: a 5' non-coding region (NCR), a region encoding
structural proteins (capsid (C), pre-membrane/membrane (prM/M), envelope (E)) and a region
encoding non-structural proteins (NS 1 -NS2A-NS2B-NS3-NS4A-NS4B-NS5)             and a 3' NCR.
[00110]     The viral genomic RNA is associated with the capsid proteins to form a nucleocapsid.
As typical of flaviviruses, the Dengue viral genome encodes an uninterrupted coding region
which is translated into a single polyprotein which is post-translationally processed. Important
biological properties of DV, include receptor binding, hemagglutination of erythrocytes,
induction of neutralizing antibodies and the protective immune response, are associated with the
E protein (Wahala et al., 2011 Viruses 3:2374-2395).
[00111]     The PrM protein, a glycoprotein of about 19 kDa, contains six highly conserved
cysteine residues forming three disulfide bridges and is cleaved to Pr and M proteins by furin or
furin-like protease during maturation.
[00112]     The NS1 protein, also a glycoprotein of about 40 kDa, contains 12 highly conserved
cysteine residues forming six disulfide bridges and is present intracellularly, on the cell surface,
and outside the cells (Lai et al., 2008 Journal of Virology 82(13):6631-43).
                                                  37

[00113]      The E protein, a glycoprotein of approximately 55 kDa, contains 12 strictly conserved
cysteine residues forming six disulfide bridges and is present as a heterodimer with PrM protein
before the maturation of the virion. X-ray crystallographic studies of the ectodomain of E
protein have revealed three distinct beta-barrel domains connected to the viral membrane by a
helical stem anchor and two antiparallel transmembrane domains. Domain III (EDIII) adopts an
immunoglobulin-like fold and has been suggested to play a critical role in receptor interactions.
Domain II (EDII) is an elongated domain composed of two long finger-like structures and
contains a highly conserved 13 amino acid fusion loop (EDII-FL) at the tip, and participates in
the membrane fusion and dimerization of E protein. The central domain of E (domain I; EDI) is
a nine-stranded p-barrel that is connected to EDIII and EDII by one and four flexible linkers,
respectively. E proteins are important for viral assembly, receptor attachment, entry, viral
fusion, and possibly immune evasion during the flavivirus life cycle and, thus, are dynamic
proteins required to adopt several distinct conformations and arrangements on the virus particle.
Moreover, E protein is the major target of both neutralizing and enhancing antibodies (Lai et al.,
2008 Journal of Virology 82:6631-6643; Pierson et al., 2008 Cell Host & Microbe 4:229-38).
[00114]      DVs are assembled on the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the virus
buds into the lumen of the ER as immature virus particles. Unlike mature virus particles that
have a smooth surface, immature virus particles that bud into the ER have a rough surface
created by timers of E/prM heterodimers that form sixty spiked projections with icosahedral
symmetry on the viral envelope (Perera et al., 2008 Antivir. Res. 80 11-22). The E proteins of
each trimer project away from the surface of the virion and interact with prM via the distal end of
EDII including the fusion loop. PrM on immature virions restricts the ability of E proteins to
undergo oligomeric rearrangement in the low pH Golgi-derived secretory compartments during
viral egress, thus preventing premature and adventitious fusion (Guirakhoo et al., 1991 Journal of
Virology 72:1323-1329; Heinz et al., 1994 Journal of Virology 198(1):109-117). As immature
virions traffic through the acidic compartments of the trans-Golgi network (TGN), changes in the
orientation of prM and E proteins unmask a site for the cellular serine protease furin. In this low
pH environment, the E proteins of immature virions form antiparallel dimers that lie flat against
the surface of the virion and are arranged with T = 3 quasi-icosahedral symmetry (Yu et al., 2009
Journal of Virology 83(23):12101-12107). The prM protein continues to mask the fusion loop of
EDII until it is released after furin cleavage and a transition to neutral pH occurs in the
                                                  38

extracellular space. The resulting mature and infectious viruses are relatively smooth particles
composed of 90 E protein dimers and 180 copies of the -70 amino acid M protein. In this
configuration, E proteins on the mature DV exist in three distinct environments defined by their
proximity to the 2-, 3-, or 5-fold axis of symmetry (Kuhn et al., 2002 Cell 108:717-25). Thus, all
the E protein subunits are not in identical environments on the viral surface and steric and other
considerations result in preferential interactions of some E subunits over others with receptors
and antibodies.
[00115]     Antibodies recognizing the highly conserved fusion loop on E protein demonstrate
broad reactivity to all four DV serotypes; however their neutralization potency is typically
limited, presumably due to this epitope being largely inaccessible in mature DV. Some
antibodies which recognize the 'A' p-strand of E protein domain III (EDIII) have been shown to
potently neutralize particular DV strains, but are not known to be effective against all four
serotypes (Lok et al., Nature Structural & Molecular Biol. 15:312-317). The 'A' p-strand is part
of a sub complex epitope centered at positions 305-308 (DV3 numbering) on the EDIII.
As described herein, the present invention encompasses the finding that the E antigen, and
particularly the EDIII domain can serve as a useful antigenic target for broad-spectrum anti-DV
antibody agents. The invention particularly demonstrates that antibodies that bind to the E
antigen (e.g., to the EDIII domain) but do not neutralize all DV serotypes can be rationally
engineered to produce variants, and/or other antibody agents, that do neutralize all of DV
serotypes 1-4 (see, e.g., Figure 3). Furthermore, the present invention demonstrates that
antibodies that bind to the E antigen (e.g., to the EDIII domain) and neutralize some but not all
DV serotypes can be rationally engineered to produce variants, and/or other antibody agents, that
have gained neutralization activity, as compared with the parent antibody, against one or more
particular strains and/or serotypes, without significantly depleting their activity, as compared
with the parent antibody, against certain other strains and/or subtypes.
4El1 antibody
[00116]     Antibodies have proven to be an effective class of antiviral therapeutics, in part due to
their high biochemical specificity and their established safety record. Additionally, antibodies
                                                   39

have a long serum half-life (-21 days), enabling prophylactic uses in people, an application of
particular need for infectious diseases which show rapid outbreaks, including Dengue Virus.
[00117]      Antibodies that protect against flavivirus infection are believed to act through
multiple mechanisms, including one or more of (1) direct neutralization of receptor binding, (2)
inhibition of viral fusion, (3) Fc-y-receptor-dependent viral clearance, (4) complement-mediated
lysis of virus or infected cells, and (5) antibody-dependent cytotoxicity of infected cells (Pierson
et al., 2008 Cell Host & Microbe 4:229-38). Flavivirus neutralization is thought to require
binding by multiple antibodies (Dowd et al., 2011 Virology 411:306-15). Studies with E16, an
EDIII binding mAb that neutralizes West Nile virus at a post attachment stage, indicate that ~30
antibodies need to bind for effective neutralization. Studies have suggested that both the affinity
of antibody binding and the total number of accessible epitopes contribute to the neutralization
potency of an antibody. Thus, even for an antibody that binds with high affinity, the antibody
will fail to neutralize if the number of accessible epitopes is below certain level required for
neutralization. Conversely, a lower affinity antibody may neutralize if many of the epitopes are
accessible to binding.
[00118]      As already noted, Dengue viruses (DVs) display antibody epitopes that are unique to
each serotype and epitopes that are shared between serotypes. Most studies to understand how
antibodies neutralize or enhance DV have been done with mouse monoclonal antibodies (mAbs).
As E protein is the main antigen exposed on the surface of the virion, mouse mAbs that bind to E
protein have been the focus of much analysis. Although neutralizing mouse mAbs have been
mapped to all three domains, the most strongly neutralizing mAbs are serotype-specific and bind
to EDIII, which protrudes from the surface of the virion. Two partially overlapping epitopes on
EDIII designated the lateral ridge and A-strand epitopes are the main targets of mouse mAbs that
neutralize DV.
[00119]      The lateral ridge epitope interacts with serotype-specific strongly neutralizing
antibodies. For example, mAb 3H5 maps to the EDIII-LR of DV serotype 2, and the epitope
recognized by these mAbs is located on both the A-strand (amino acid 304) and the FG loop
(residues 383 and 384) (Sukupolvi-Petty et al., 2007 Journal of Virology 81(23): 12816-12826).
[00120]      However, not all antibodies that bind EDIII exhibit type-specific neutralizing activity.
mAbs that bind to the A-strand epitope cross react with more than one serotype of DV and are
                                                   40

designated Dengue Virus sub-complex neutralizing mAbs. For example, the sub complex
specific mAb lAlD-2 recognizes an epitope centered on the A-strand of the lateral surface of
EDIII and can neutralize infection by DV serotypes 1-3 (DV1-3), but not DV serotype 4 (DV4)
(Lok et al., 2008 Nature Struct Mol Biol 15(3):312-317; Roehrig et al., 1998 Virology
246(2):317-328; Sukupolvi-Petty et al., 2007 Journal of Virology 81(23): 12816-12826). The
molecular basis for the specificity of this mAb has been investigated; only one of three residues
at the center of the lA1D-2 epitope is conserved among all four DV serotypes (DV1-4). A
similar A-strand epitope is also recognized by the broadly neutralizing cross reactive DV mAb
4E11 (Thullier et al., 2001 Journal Gen Virol. 82(8):1885-1892). Experimental approaches so
far have however, failed to yield antibodies capable of potently neutralizing all four DV
serotypes.
[00121]      One particular murine monoclonal antibody, known as 4E 11, that binds within EDIII
of the E glycoprotein, shows potent neutralizing activity against DV serotypes 1-4. 4E1 1 binds
to a conformational epitope on DV EDIII of E glycoprotein and cross reacts with all four
serotypes. 4E1 1 potently neutralizes DV1-3 by interfering with attachment to host cell.
However, it has poor affinity, and therefore weak neutralizing activity, against DV4
[00122]      A hybridoma cell line that secretes mouse monoclonal antibody 4El1 has been
deposited in the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) Accession number: HB-9259.
Sequences of wild type ("wt") 4El1 heavy chain (HC; SEQ ID NO. 1) and light chain (LC; SEQ
ID NO. 2) are known. Sequences of wt 4E1 1 framework (FR) and complement determining
regions (CDRs) are known (wt 4E1 1 HC FRI is SEQ ID NO. 3, wt 4E1 1 HC FR2 is SEQ ID
NO. 4, wt 4E11 HC FR3 is SEQ ID NO. 5, wt 4E I1 HC FR4 is SEQ ID NO. 6, wt 4E ll HC
CDR1 is SEQ ID NO. 7, wt 4El1 HC CDR2 is SEQ ID NO. 8, wt 4El1 HC CDR3 is SEQ ID
NO. 9; wt 4El 1 LC FRI is SEQ ID NO. 10, wt 4El1 LC FR2 is SEQ ID NO. 11, wt 4El1 LC
FR3 is SEQ ID NO. 12, wt 4El1 LC FR4 is SEQ ID NO. 13, wt 4El1 LC CDR1 is SEQ ID NO.
14, wt 4E1 1 LC CDR2 is SEQ ID NO. 15, wt 4E1 1 LC CDR3 is SEQ ID NO. 16).
SEQ ID NO. 1:
EVKLLEQSGAELVKPGASVRLSCTASGFNIKDTYMSWVKQRPEQGLEWIGRIDPANGDT
KYDPKFQGKATITADTSSNTAYLHLSSLTSGDTAVYYCSRGWEGFAYWGQGTLVTVSA
SEQ ID NO. 2:
                                                 41

ELVMTQTPASLAVSLGQRATISCRASENVDRYGNSFMHWYQQKAGQPPKLLIYRASNL
ESGIPARFSGSGSRTDFTLTINPVEADDVATYFCQRSNEVPWTFGGGTKLEIKR
SEQ ID NO. 3:
EVKLLEQSGAELVKPGASVRLSCTAS
SEQ ID NO. 4:
YMSWVKQRPEQGLEWIGRI
SEQ ID NO. 5:
TKYDPKFQGKATITADTSSNTAYLHLSSLTSGDTAVYYCSR
SEQ ID NO. 6:
WGQGTLVTVSA
SEQ ID NO. 7:
GFNIKDT
SEQ ID NO. 8:
DPANGD
SEQ ID NO. 9:
GWEGFAY
SEQ ID NO. 10:
ELVMTQTPASLAVSLGQRATISC
SEQ ID NO. 11:
WYQQKAGQPPKLLIY
SEQ ID NO. 12:
GIPARFSGSGSRTDFTLTINPVEADDVATYFC
SEQ ID NO. 13:
FGGGTKLEIKR
                               42

SEQ ID NO. 14:
RASENVDRYGNSFMH
SEQ ID NO. 15:
RASNLES
SEQ ID NO. 16:
QRSNEVPWT
[00123]     The present invention encompasses the recognition that it would be desirable to
develop antibodies (or other antibody agents) that are variants of wt 4El 1. The present invention
particularly provides such antibodies and antibody agents. That is, the present invention
provides various antibody agents that show significant structural identity with 4E 11 and
moreover show improved functional characteristics (e.g., neutralization of DV4) as compared
with that observed with wt 4E11.
[00124]     The present disclosure provides a novel scoring metric for docking an antigen
antibody interaction. The scoring metric framework ranks protein-protein interfaces according to
physicochemical features and propensities of pairwise amino acid interactions observed in
intermolecular interfaces. The present disclosure uses this framework to modify properties of an
existing antibody. In some embodiments, the specificity and affinity of an antibody for its
antigen is modified. In some embodiments, the modified antibody is a monoclonal antibody. In
some embodiments, the framework disclosed in the present invention is used to engineer broader
specificity and affinity to an anti-DV neutralizing mAb.
[00125]     Using the docked model, the mode of anti-DV antibodies binding to all four serotypes
of DV (DV1-4) was examined and the structural basis of poor affinity of these antibodies
towards DV4 were identified. Mutations were carefully designed on the paratope of these
antibodies to improve their affinity, and thereby their neutralizing activity, towards DV4, while
maintaining affinity and neutralizing activity towards DV1-3. For designing the mutations, the
CDR loop residues of the mAbs were carefully examined one at a time. At a given CDR
position, the "wild- type" residue was systematically substituted by the remaining amino acids
excluding glycine (Gly) and proline (Pro), and the probability of replacement was evaluated at
each instance using the statistical pairwise propensities. Gly and Pro residues were not modified
                                                  43

to avoid alteration in the backbone conformation. Single mutations with high replacement
potential were modeled, and re-evaluated computationally to find mutations that: (1) do not alter
phi-psi values; (2) do not bury polar groups; and (3) improved H-bonds, salt bridge, van der
Waals, hydrophobic contacts, and packing. Promising single mutations identified by the
computational approach were screened using a high throughput indirect enzyme linked
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method to identify positive mutations that improve affinity
towards DV4 EDIII while maintaining affinity towards DV1-3 EDIII. Finally, positive single
mutations were combined to rationally design high affinity antibodies. Competition ELISA
experiments were carried out to determine the affinity, at equilibrium and in solution, between
the engineered antibodies and EDIII from each of the four serotypes. Binding measurements
were verified using surface plasmon resonance (SPR) analysis.
[00126]      In some embodiments, antibodies against A-strand epitope can be engineered to bind
to all four serotypes of DV. In some embodiments, wt 4E1 1 anti-DVantibody is modified to
improve its affinity, and thereby neutralizing activity towards DV4, while maintaining affinity
towards DV1-3. In some embodiments, one of the engineered antibodies displays -15 and -450
fold improvement in affinity toward EDIII of DV2 and DV4, respectively, while maintaining
original affinity towards EDIII of DV1 and DV3. In some embodiments, compared to wt mAb
4E 11, the engineered antibody showed >75 fold increased neutralizing potential towards DV4,
while still maintaining "wild-type" activity towards other serotypes. The engineered 4E 11
antibody according to the present invention represents an interesting candidate for a therapeutic
antibody to treat Dengue disease.
ProvidedvariantDV antibody agents
[00127]      It will be appreciated that provided antibody agents may be engineered, produced,
and/or purified in such a way as to improve characteristics and/or activity of the antibody agents.
For example, improved characteristics of provided antibody agents include, but are not limited
to, increased stability, improved binding affinity and/or avidity, increased binding specificity,
increased production, decreased aggregation, decreased nonspecific binding, among others.
[00128]      In general, as described herein, provided antibody agents can be or include, e.g., a
polyclonal antibody; a monoclonal antibody or antigen binding fragment thereof; a modified
                                                  44

antibody such as a chimeric antibody, reshaped antibody, humanized antibody, or fragment
thereof (e.g., Fab', Fab, F(ab') 2 ); or a biosynthetic antibody, e.g., a single chain antibody, single
domain antibody (DAB), Fv, single chain Fv (scFv), or the like.
[00129]      Methods of making and using polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies are described,
e.g., in Harlow et al., Using Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual: Portable Protocol I. Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory (Dec. 1, 1998). Methods for making modified antibody agents, such as,
antibodies and antibody fragments (e.g., chimeric antibodies, reshaped antibodies, humanized
antibodies, or fragments thereof, e.g., Fab', Fab, F(ab') 2 fragments); or biosynthetic antibodies
(e.g., single chain antibodies, single domain antibodies (DABs), Fv, single chain Fv (scFv), and
the like), are known in the art and can be found, e.g., in Zola, Monoclonal Antibodies:
Preparation and Use of Monoclonal Antibodies and Engineered Antibody Derivatives, Springer
Verlag (Dec. 15, 2000; 1st edition).
[00130]      The present invention provides antibody agents that bind to all four serotypes of DV
(DV1-4). In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind to
DV 1 with a higher affinity, as compared to the affinity of another antibody to DV 1. In some
embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with a higher affinity to
DV2, as compared to the affinity of another antibody to DV2. In some embodiments, the present
invention provides antibody agents that bind with a higher affinity to DV3, as compared to the
affinity of another antibody to DV3. In some embodiments, the present invention provides
antibody agents that bind with a higher affinity to DV4, as compared to the affinity of another
antibody to DV4. In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that
bind with a higher affinity to DV1, DV2, DV3, and DV4, as compared to the affinity of another
antibody to DV1, DV2, DV3, and DV4. In some embodiments, the present invention provides
antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to DV4, and retain binding affinity to DV 1, DV2,
and DV3, as compared to the affinities of another antibody for these DV serotypes. In some
embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind to DV1 and DV4 with
higher affinities, as compared to the affinities of another antibody for these DV serotypes. In
some embodiments, provided antibody agents bind with a higher affinity to DV1 and DV4, and
retain their binding affinity to DV2 and DV3, as compared to the affinities of another antibody
for these DV serotypes. In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents
that bind to DV2 and DV4 with higher affinities, as compared to the affinities of another
                                                     45

antibody for these DV serotypes. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents bind with a
higher affinity to DV2 and DV4, and retain their binding affinity to DV1 and DV3, as compared
to the affinities of another antibody for these DV serotypes. In some embodiments, the present
invention provides antibody agents that bind to DV3 and DV4 with higher affinities, as
compared to the affinities of another antibody for these DV serotypes. In some embodiments,
provided antibody agents bind with a higher affinity to DV3 and DV4, and retain their binding
affinity to DV1 and DV2, as compared to the affinities of another antibody for these DV
serotypes.
[00131]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents bind to one or more of DV 1-4 with
an affinity of at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%,
70%, 7 5%, 80%, 85%, 90% or more than the affinity of a different antibody for one or more of
DV1-4. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents bind to one or more of DV1-4 with an
affinity of at least 2-fold, at least 5-fold, at least 10-fold, at least 20-fold, at least 30-fold, at least
40-fold, at least 50-fold, at least 60-fold, at least 70-fold, at least 80-fold, at least 90-fold, at least
100-fold, at least 200-fold, at least 300-fold, at least 400-fold, at least 500-fold or greater affinity
than that of a different antibody for one or more of DV1-4. In some embodiments, provided
antibody agents show binding affinities for different DV serotypes that are within 2, within 5,
within 10, within 25, within 50, within 100, within 150, within 200, within 250, within 300,
within 350, or within 400-fold affinity of one another.
[00132]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show a neutralization IC 50 (ug/ml)
within a range as described and/or exemplified herein. In some embodiments, provided antibody
agents show a neutralization IC5 0 (ug/ml) whose lower bound is about 0.05 ug/ml and upper
bound is about 10 ug/ml. In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show a neutralization
IC 5 0 (ug/ml) whose lower bound is selected from the group consisting of 0.05 ug/ml, 0.1 ug/ml,
0.2 ug/ml, 0.3 ug/ml, 0.4 ug/ml, 0.5 ug/ml, 0.6 ug/ml, 0.7 ug/ml, 0.8 ug/ml, 0.9 ug/ml, 1.0 ug/ml,
1.1 ug/ml, 1.2 ug/ml, 1.3 ug/ml, 1.4 ug/ml, 1.5 ug/ml, 1.6 ug/ml, 1.7 ug/ml, 1.8 ug/ml, 1.9 ug/ml,
2.0 ug/ml, 2.5 ug/ml, 3.0 ug/ml, 3.5 ug/ml, 4.0 ug/ml, 4.5 ug/ml, 5.0 ug/ml or more, and whose
upper bound is higher than the lower bound and is selected from the group consisting of 1.5
ug/ml, 1.6 ug/ml, 1.7 ug/ml, 1.8 ug/ml, 1.9 ug/ml, 2.0 ug/ml, 2.5 ug/ml, 3.0 ug/ml, 3.5 ug/ml, 4.0
ug/ml, 4.5 ug/ml, 5.0 ug/ml, 5.5 ug/ml, 6.0 ug/ml, 6.5 ug/ml, 7.0 ug/ml, 7.5 ug/ml, 8.0 ug/ml, 8.5
ug/ml, 9.0 ug/ml, 9.5 ug/ml, 10.0 ug/ml or more.
                                                      46

[00133]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show binding to DV 1-4 with a KD
(nM) less than 40000nM, less than 30000nM, less than 20000nM, less than 10000nM, less than
5000nM, less than 2000nM, less than 1500nM, less than 1000nM, less than 500nM, less than
250nM, less than 225nM, less than 200nM, less than 175nM, less than 150nM, less than 125nM,
less than 100nM, less than 75nM, less than 50nM, less than 25nM, less than 15nM, less than 10
nM, less than 5nM, less than 2.5nM, less than lnM, less than 0.5nM, less than 0.25nM, less than
0.1 nM.
[00134]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show binding to DV 1-4 with a K..
(M s ) whose lower bound is about 0.01x105 M s and upper bound is about 5.0x106 M s . In
some embodiments, provided antibodies show binding to DV 1-4 with a K.. (M s 1 ) whose lower
bound is selected from the group consisting of 0.01x10 5 M          1
                                                                      s4 , 0.05x10 5 M 1 s4 , 0. 1x10 5 M -s,
0.5x10 5 M 1s', 1.0x10 5 M s 4 , 2.0x10 5 M    Is   , 5.0x10 5 M 1s 4 , 7.0x10 5 M s-, or more, and whose
upper bound is higher than the lower bound and is selected from the group consisting of 1.Ox106
M s , 1.5x106 M s , 2.0x106 M s , 2.5x106 M s , 3.0x106 M s , 3.5x106 M s , 4.0x106 M s
  , 4.5x106 M s , 5.0x106 MIs , or more.
[00135]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents show binding to DV 1-4 with a Kore
(s-1) whose lower bound is about 5x10- 4 s-1 and upper bound is about 900x10-4 s-1. In some
embodiments, provided antibody agents show binding to DV1-4 with a Kore (s-1) whose lower
bound is selected from the group consisting of 5x10 4 s- 1, 10x10-4s- 1, 12x10-4s-1, 13x10            4 s-1,
14x10- 4 s-1, 15x10-4 s-1, 18x10-4 s-1, 20x10- 4 s-1, or more, and whose upper bound is higher than the
lower bound and is selected from the group consisting of 50x10-4s- 1, 100x10-4s- 1, 120x10-4 s-1,
140x10-4 s-1, 150x10-4 s-1, 200x10-4 s-', 300x10-4 s-', 400x10-4 s-', 500x10-4 s-1, 600x10-4 S-1,
700x10-4 s-, 800x10-4 s , 900x10-4 s , or more.
[00136]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents bind to E glycoprotein of DV1-4. In
certain embodiments, provided antibody agents bind to EDIII of DV 1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20).
In some embodiments, provided antibody agents bind to A-strand of DV1-4. In some
embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to
EDIII of DV4 (SEQ ID NO. 20). In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody
agents that bind with higher affinity to A-strand of DV4.
                                                       47

SEQ ID NO. 17:
MCTGSFKLEKEVAETQHGTVLVQVKYEGTDAPCKIPFSSQDEKGVTQNGRLITANPIVT
DKEKPVNIEAEPPFGESYIVVGAGEKALKLSWFK
SEQ ID NO. 18:
MCTGKFKVVKEIAETQHGTMVIRVQYEGDDSPCKIPFEIMDLEKKHVLGRLITVNPIVIE
KDSPINIEAEPPFGDSYIIIGVEPGQLKLNWFK
SEQ ID NO. 19:
MCTNTFVLKKEVSETQHGTILIKVEYKGEDAPCKIPFSTEDGQGKAHNGRLITANPVVTK
KEEPVNIEAEPPFGESNIVIGIGDNALKINWYK
SEQ ID NO. 20:
MCSGKFSIDKEMAETQHGTTVVKVKYEGAGAPCKVPIEIRDVNKEKVVGRIISSTPLAEN
TNSVTNIELEPPFGDSYIVIGVGNSALTLHWFR
[00137]     In some embodiments, the present invention identifies antibody agents that bind to
one or more amino acid residues in EDIII of DV1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20) at positions 305, 306,
307, 308, 309, 310, 311, 312, 323, 325, 327, 329, 360, 361, 362, 363, 364, 385, 387, 388, 389,
390, 391, and/or combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the present invention identifies
antibody agents that bind to one or more amino acid residues in EDIII of DV 1-4 (SEQ ID NOs.
17-20) at positions 305, 310, 311, 323, 327, 329, and/or combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, the present invention identifies antibody agents that bind amino acid residues in
EDIII of DV1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20) at positions 305, 310, 311, 323, 327, and 329. In some
embodiments, the present invention identifies antibody agents that bind amino acid residue in
EDIII of DV1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20) at position 305. In some embodiments, the present
invention identifies antibody agents that bind amino acid residue in EDIII of DV 1-4 (SEQ ID
NOs. 17-20) at position 310. In certain embodiments, the present invention identifies antibody
agents that bind amino acid residue in EDIII of DV1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20) at position 311. In
some embodiments, the present invention identifies antibody agents that bind amino acid residue
in EDIII of DV 1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20) at position 323. In some embodiments, the present
invention identifies antibody agents that bind amino acid residue in EDIII of DV 1-4 (SEQ ID
                                                48

NOs. 17-20) at position 327. In some embodiments, the present invention identifies antibody
agents that bind amino acid residue in EDIII of DV1-4 (SEQ ID NOs. 17-20) at position 329.
[00138]      In some embodiments, a serine, lysine, and/or threonine residue at position 305
contribute(s) to binding to provided antibody agents. In some embodiments, a lysine residue at
position 310 contributes to binding to provided antibody agents. In some embodiments, a lysine
residue at position 311 contributes to binding to provided antibody agents. In some
embodiments, an arginine, lysine, and/or glutamine residue at position 323 contribute(s) to
binding to provided antibody agents. In some embodiments, a serine and/or glutamate residue at
position 327 contribute(s) to binding to provided antibody agents. In some embodiments, an
arginine, aspartate, and/or glutamate residue at position 329 contribute(s) to binding to provided
antibody agents.
[00139]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with
higher affinity to DV 1, as compared to a wild type ("wt") DV antibody. In some embodiments,
the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to DV2, as
compared to a wt or parent reference DV antibody. In some embodiments, the present invention
provides antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to DV3, as compared to a reference
antibody such as a wt DV antibody. In some embodiments, the present invention provides
antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to DV4, as compared to a reference DV antibody.
In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with higher
affinity to DV1, DV2, DV3, and DV4, as compared to a reference DV antibody. In some
embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to
DV4 and retain binding affinity to DV1, DV2, and DV3, as compared to a reference DV
antibody. In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that bind with
higher affinity to DV2 and DV4, as compared to a reference (wt) DV antibody. In some
embodiments, provided antibody agents that bind with higher affinity to DV2 and DV4 and
retain their binding affinity to DV1 and DV3, as compared to a reference DV antibody. In some
embodiments, a wt DV antibody is a wt 4E1 1 antibody.
[00140]      As described herein, the present invention provides antibody agents that show certain
structural (i.e., sequence) relationship with 4E1 1 and/or have particular functional attributes,
including for example certain improved functional attributes as compared with wt 4E 11.
                                                  49

[00141]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents whose amino
acid sequences, show specified levels of homology and/or identity with wt 4E 11. In some
embodiments provided antibody agents show at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least
90%, at least 95%, at least 99% identity with wt 4E1 1 (i.e., with SEQ ID NOs. 1-2).
[00142]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents have a heavy chain (HC; SEQ ID
NO. 21) CDR1 comprising sequence GFNIKDT (SEQ ID NO. 23), a HC CDR2 comprising
sequence DPENGD (SEQ ID NO. 24), a HC CDR3 comprising sequence GWEGFAY (SEQ ID
NO. 25), a light chain (LC; SEQ ID NO. 22) CDR1 comprising sequence
RASENVDKYGNSFMH (SEQ ID NO. 26), a LC CDR2 region comprising sequence
RASELQW (SEQ ID NO. 27) and a LC CDR3 region comprising sequence QRSNEVPWT
(SEQ ID NO. 28).
SEQ ID NO. 21:
EVKLLEQSGAELVKPGASVRLSCTASGFNIKDTYMSWVKQRPEQGLEWIGRIDPENGDT
KYDPKFQGKATITADTSSNTAYLHLSSLTSGDTAVYYCSRGWEGFAYWGQGTLVTVSA
SEQ ID NO. 22:
ELVMTQTPASLAVSLGQRATISCRASENVDKYGNSFMHWYQQKAGQPPKLLIYRASEL
QWGIPARFSGSGSRTDFTLTINPVEADDVATYFCQRSNEVPWTFGGGTKLEIKR
[00143]      In some embodiments, provided antibody agents have one or more CDRs and/or one
or more FRs that are identical in sequence to a corresponding CDR or FR of wt 4E1 1 (i.e. to one
or more of SEQ ID NOs. 7-9, 14-16 or 3-6, 10-13). In some embodiments, provided antibody
agents have one or more CDRs and/or FRs showing a specified degree of homology and/or
identity with the corresponding CDRs and/or FRs of wt 4E1 1 as discussed below. In some
embodiments, all CDRs and FRs of a provided antibody agents show at least the specified level
of homology and/or identity. In some embodiments, a provided antibody agents has CDR and
FR sequences that together contain no more than 18, 17, 16, 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5,
4, 3, 2, or 1 substitutions as compared with wt 4E11.
[00144]      In some embodiments, a complementarity determining region (CDR) 1 of an antibody
agent of the present invention shows at least 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than
80%, more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or more than 99% identity with wt 4E1 1
                                                 50

(SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 14). In some embodiments, a provided CDR1 has an amino
acid sequence that is identical to that of wt 4E1 1 and/or does not contain any amino acid
substitutions as compared with CDR1 of wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 14). In some
embodiments, a provided CDR1 has one or more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO. 14). In some embodiments, a provided CDR1 will have
two or more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 7 and SEQ ID NO.
14). In some embodiments, a provided CDR has 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substitutions and in some
embodiments 1, 2, or 3 substitutions as compared with wt 4E 11.
[00145]     In some embodiments, a CDR2 of an antibody agent of the present invention shows at
least 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%,
more than 95%, or more than 99% identity with wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 8 and SEQ ID NO. 15).
In some embodiments, a provided CDR2 has an amino acid sequence that is identical to that of
wt 4E 11 and/or does not contain any amino acid substitutions as compared with CDR2 of wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 8 and SEQ ID NO. 15). In some embodiments, a provided CDR2 has one or
more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 8 and SEQ ID NO. 15). In
some embodiments, a provided CDR2 will have two or more amino acid substitutions as
compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 8 and SEQ ID NO. 15). In some embodiments, a provided
CDR has 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substitutions and in some embodiments 1, 2, or 3 substitutions as
compared with wt 4E11.
[00146]     In some embodiments, a CDR3 of an antibody agent of the present invention shows at
least 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%, more than 85%, more than 90%,
more than 95%, or more than 99% identity with wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 9 and SEQ ID NO. 16).
In some embodiments, a provided CDR3 has an amino acid sequence that is identical to that of
wt 4E 11 and/or does not contain any amino acid substitutions as compared with CDR3 of wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 9 and SEQ ID NO. 16). In some embodiments, a provided CDR3 has one or
more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 9 and SEQ ID NO. 16). In
some embodiments, a provided CDR3 will have two or more amino acid substitutions as
compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 9 and SEQ ID NO. 16). In some embodiments, a provided
CDR has 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 substitutions and in some embodiments 1, 2, or 3 substitutions as
compared with wt 4E11.
                                                  51

[00147]     In some embodiments, a provided framework region 1 (FRI) of an antibody agent of
the present invention will share more than 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%,
more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or more than 99% percent identity with wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID ID NO. 3 and SEQ ID NO. 10). In some embodiments, a provided FRI will not
have an amino acid substitution as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID ID NO. 3 and SEQ ID NO.
10). In some embodiments, a provided FRI will have one or more amino acid substitutions as
compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID ID NO. 3 and SEQ ID NO. 10). In some embodiments, a
provided FRI will have two or more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID
ID NO. 3 and SEQ ID NO. 10).
[00148]     In some embodiments, a provided framework region 2 (FR2) of an antibody agent of
the present invention will share more than 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%,
more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or more than 99% percent identity with wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 4 and SEQ ID NO. 11). In some embodiments, a provided FR2 will not
have an amino acid substitution as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 4 and SEQ ID NO. 11).
In some embodiments, a provided FR2 will have one or more amino acid substitutions as
compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 4 and SEQ ID NO. 11). In some embodiments, a provided
FR2 will have two or more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 4 and
SEQ ID NO. 11).
[00149]     In some embodiments, a provided framework region 3 (FR3) of an antibody agent of
the present invention will share more than 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%,
more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or more than 99% percent identity with wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 12). In some embodiments, a provided FR3 will not
have an amino acid substitution as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 12).
In some embodiments, a provided FR3 will have one or more amino acid substitutions as
compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 5 and SEQ ID NO. 12). In some embodiments, a provided
FR3 will have two or more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 5 and
SEQ ID NO. 12).
[00150]     In some embodiments, a provided framework region 4 (FR4) of an antibody agent of
the present invention will share more than 65%, more than 70%, more than 75%, more than 80%,
more than 85%, more than 90%, more than 95%, or more than 99% percent identity with wt
                                               52

4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 6 and SEQ ID NO. 13). In some embodiments, a provided FR4 will not
have an amino acid substitution as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 6 and SEQ ID NO. 13).
In some embodiments, a provided FR4 will have one or more amino acid substitutions as
compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 6 and SEQ ID NO. 13). In some embodiments, a provided
FR3 will have two or more amino acid substitutions as compared to wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NO. 6 and
SEQ ID NO. 13).
[00151]      In some embodiments, the VH CDR of the provided antibody agents show at least
60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 99% identity with wt 4E1 1
(SEQ ID NOs.: 7-9). In some embodiments, the VH CDR of the provided antibody agents show
at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 99% identity with wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NOs.: 7-9), but differs by substitution of at least one amino acid substitution
within the CDR. In some embodiments, the VH CDR of provided antibody agents have a
substitution of the corresponding amino acid residue at position 55 of the wt 4E1 1 antibody. In
some embodiments, a substitute amino acid residue at position 55 is selected from the group
consisting of glutamate and aspartate. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at
position 55 is glutamate. In some embodiments, the amino acid residue in the VH CDR of
provided antibodies corresponding to amino acid residue at position 55 of wt 4E1 1 is not alanine.
[00152]      In some embodiments, the VL CDR of provided antibody agents show at least 60%,
at least 7 0%, at least 8 0%, at least 9 0%, at least 9 5%, at least 9 9 % identity with wt 4E1 1 (SEQ
ID NOs.: 14-16). In some embodiments, the VL CDR of provided antibody agents show at least
60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 99% identity with wt 4E1 1
(SEQ ID NOs.: 14-16), but differs by substitution of at least one amino acid substitution within
the CDR. In some embodiments, the VL CDR of provided antibody agents have one or more
substitutions of a corresponding amino acid residue at positions 31, 57, 59, 60 and/or
combinations thereof, of the wt 4E 11 antibody. In some embodiments, the VL CDR of provided
antibody agents have a substitution of the corresponding amino acid residue at position 31 of the
wt 4E 11 antibody. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 31 is
lysine. In some embodiments, the amino acid residue in the VL CDR of provided antibody
agents corresponding to amino acid residue at position 55 of wt 4E1 1 is not arginine. In some
embodiments, the VL CDR of provided antibody agents have a substitution of the corresponding
amino acid residue at position 57 of the wt 4E1 1 antibody. In some embodiments, the substitute
                                                     53

amino acid residue at position 57 is selected from the group consisting of glutamate and serine.
In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 57 is glutamate. In some
embodiments, the amino acid residue in the VL CDR of provided antibody agents corresponding
to amino acid residue at position 57 of wt 4E1 1 is not asparagine. In some embodiments, the VL
CDR of provided antibody agents have substitution of the corresponding amino acid residue at
position 59 of the wt 4E1 1 antibody. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at
position 59 is selected from the group consisting of glutamine and asparagine. In some
embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 59 is glutamine. In some
embodiments, the amino acid residue in the VL CDR of provided antibody agents corresponding
to amino acid residue at position 59 of wt 4E1 1 is not glutamate. In some embodiments, the VL
CDR of provided antibody agents have a substitution of the corresponding amino acid residue at
position 60 of the wt 4E 11 antibody. In some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at
position 60 is selected from the group consisting of tryptophan, tyrosine, and arginine. In some
embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 60 is tryptophan. In some
embodiments, the amino acid residue in the VL CDR of provided antibody agents corresponding
to amino acid residue at position 60 of wt 4E1 1 is not serine.
[00153]       In some embodiments, the VH and VL CDRs of the provided antibody agents show
at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at least 95%, at least 99% identity with wt
4E1 1 (SEQ ID NOs.: 7-9 and 14-16, respectively). In some embodiments, the VH and VL CDRs
of the provided antibody agents show at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80%, at least 90%, at
least 95%, at least 99% identity with wt 4E1 1 (SEQ ID NOs.: 7-9 and 14-16, respectively), but
differ by substitution of at least one amino acid substitution within the CDRs. In some
embodiments, the VH CDR of provided antibody agents have substitution of the corresponding
amino acid residue at position 55, and VL CDR of provided antibody agents have substitution of
the corresponding amino acid residue at positions 31, 57, 59 and 60, of the wt 4E1 1 antibody. In
some embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 55 is glutamate. In some
embodiments, the substitute amino acid residue at position 31 is lysine. In some embodiments,
the substitute amino acid residue at position 57 is glutamate. In some embodiments, the
substitute amino acid residue at position 59 is glutamine. In some embodiments, the substitute
amino acid residue at position 60 is tryptophan.
                                                  54

[00154]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
binding to EDIII-DV4 (SEQ ID NO. 20) with a         KD (nM) less than 40000nM, less than 30000nM,
less than 20000nM, less than 150OOnM, less than 100OOnM, less than 8000nM, less than
50OOnM, less than 4000nM, less than 3000nM, less than 2000nM, less than 1500nM, less than
10OOnM, less than 500nM, less than 250nM, less than 225nM, less than 200nM, less than
175nM, less than 150nM, less than 125nM, less than 100nM, less than 75nM, or less than 50nM.
[00155]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
binding to EDIII-DV1 (SEQ ID NO. 17) with a         KD (nM) of less than 3nM, less than 2.5nM, less
than 2nM, less than 1.5nM, less than 1.OnM, less than 0.5nM, less than 0.4nM, less than 0.3nM,
less than 0.2nM, less than O.1nM, or less than 0.05nM.
[00156]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
binding to EDIII-DV2 (SEQ ID NO. 18) with a         KD (nM) of less than 15 nM, less than 12nM,
less than 1OnM, less than 8nM, less than 7nM, less than 5nM, less than 2.5nM, less than 2nM,
less than 1.5nM, less than lnM, less than 0.5nM, less than 0.4nM, less than 0.3nM, less than
0.2nM, or less than 0.1nM.
[00157]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
binding to EDIII-DV3 (SEQ ID NO. 19) with a         KD (nM) of less than 120nM, less than 100nM,
less than 50nM, less than 40nM, less than 35nM, less than 30nM, less than 25nM, less than
20nM, less than 15nM, less than 1OnM, less than 5nM, less than 2.5nM, or less than 1.OnM.
[00158]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents with at least 2
fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 20-fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, 70-fold, 80-fold, 90-fold, 100
fold, 200-fold, 300-fold, 400-fold, 500-fold, or greater affinity for binding to EDIII-DV4 than wt
4E 11.
[00159]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents with at least 2
fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 20-fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, 70-fold, 80-fold, 90-fold, or
greater affinity for binding to EDIII-DV2 than wt 4E 11.
[00160]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents with at least 1
fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 20-fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, or greater
affinity for binding to EDIII-DV1 and/or EDIII-DV3 than wt 4E11.
                                                   55

[00161]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
neutralization IC 50 (ug/ml) of EDIII-DV4 (SEQ ID NO. 20) of 60ug/ml or less, 50ug/ml or less,
40ug/ml or less, 30ug/ml or less, 20ug/ml or less, 1Oug/ml or less, 5ug/ml or less, 4ug/ml or less,
3ug/ml or less, 2ug/ml or less.
[00162]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
neutralization IC 50 (ug/ml) of EDIII-DV3 (SEQ ID NO. 19) of 7.Oug/ml or less, 6.Oug/ml or less,
5.Oug/ml or less, 4.Oug/ml or less, 3.Oug/ml or less, 2.Oug/ml or less, 1.5ug/ml or less, 1.Oug/ml
or less, 0.90ug/ml or less, 0.80ug/ml or less, 0.70ug/ml or less, 0.60ug/ml or less, 0.50ug/ml or
less.
[00163]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
neutralization IC 50 (ug/ml) of EDIII-DV2 (SEQ ID NO. 18) of 0.2ug/ml or less, 0.19ug/ml or
less, 0.18ug/ml or less, 0.17ug/ml or less, 0.16ug/ml or less, 0.15ug/ml or less, 0.14ug/ml or less,
0.13ug/ml or less, 0.12ug/ml or less, 0.11ug/ml or less, 0.1Oug/ml or less, 0.09ug/ml or less,
0.07ug/ml or less, 0.06ug/ml or less, 0.05ug/ml or less, 0.04ug/ml or less, 0.03ug/ml or less,
0.02ug/ml or less, 0.0lug/ml or less.
[00164]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that show
neutralization IC 50 (ug/ml) of EDIII-DV1 (SEQ ID NO. 17) of 5.Oug/ml or less, 4.Oug/ml or less,
3.Oug/ml or less, 2.5ug/ml or less, 2.Oug/ml or less, 1.5ug/ml or less, 1.Oug/ml or less, 0.90ug/ml
or less, 0.70ug/ml or less, 0.50ug/ml or less, 0.40ug/ml or less, 0.30ug/ml or less, 0.20ug/ml or
less, 0.1Oug/ml or less.
[00165]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents with at least 2
fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 20-fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, 70-fold, 80-fold, 90-fold, 100
fold, 150-fold, 200-fold, 400-fold, 500-fold, or more reduction of IC 50 for neutralization of
EDIII-DV4 than wt 4E 11.
[00166]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents with at least 1
fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 20-fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, or more
reduction of IC 50 for neutralization of EDIII-DV2 than wt 4E 11.
                                                   56

[00167]      In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents with at least 1
fold, 1.5-fold, 2-fold, 5-fold, 10-fold, 20-fold, 30-fold, 40-fold, 50-fold, 60-fold, or more
reduction of IC 5 0 for neutralization of EDIII-DV1 and/or EDIII-DV3 than wt 4E11.
[00168]      In some embodiments, one or more sequences in a provided antibody agents has been
engineered (e.g., by affinity maturation or other optimization approach) to improve one or more
characteristics or activities (e.g., to increase stability, decrease aggregation, decrease
immunogenicity, etc.) as is known in the art.
[00169]      In some embodiments, an antibody agent is modified by PEGylation, methylation,
sialylation, amination or sulfation. In some embodiments, an antibody agent is conjugated to an
amphiphilic core/shell to produce a polymeric micelle. In some embodiments, an antibody agent
is conjugated to a hyperbranched macromolecule (i.e. dendrimer). In some embodiments, an
antibody agent is conjugated to a natural polymer selected from the group consisting of albumin,
chitosan, heparin, paclitaxel, poly-(L-glutamate), N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA),
poly-(L-lactide) (PLA), poly(amidoamine) (PAMAM), folate and/or combinations thereof. In
some embodiments, an antibody agent comprises one or more long unstructured tails of
hydrophilic amino acids (rPEG). In some embodiments, derivatization of immunoglobulins by
selectively introducing sulfhydryl groups in the Fc region of an immunoglobulin, using reaction
conditions that do not alter the antibody combining site are contemplated. Antibody conjugates
produced according to this methodology may exhibit improved longevity, specificity and
sensitivity (U.S. Pat. No. 5,196,066, incorporated herein by reference). Site-specific attachment
of effector or reporter molecules, wherein the reporter or effector molecule is conjugated to a
carbohydrate residue in the Fc region have also been disclosed in the literature (O'Shannessy et
al., 1987).
Antibodies and/or Antibodv Fragments
[00170]      In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent is or comprises an antibody or
fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent is or comprises a
monoclonal antibody or fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent
is or comprises a polyclonal antibody or fragment thereof. In some embodiments, the DV
antibody agent is or comprises a "full length" antibody, in that it contains two heavy chains and
                                                    57

two light chains, optionally associated by disulfide bonds as occurs with naturally-produced
antibodies. In some embodiments, the DV antibody agent is or comprises a fragment of a full
length antibody in that is contains some, but not all of the sequences found in a full-length
antibody. For example, in some embodiments, a DV antibody agent is or comprises antibody
fragments which include, but are not limited to, Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, scFv, Fv, dsFv diabody, and
Fd fragments. In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent is or comprises an antibody
that is a member of an antibody class selected from the group consisting of IgG, IgM, IgA, IgD,
IgE or fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent is or comprises
an antibody produced by chemical synthesis. In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody
agent is or comprises an antibody produced by a cell. In some embodiments, a provided DV
antibody agent is or comprises an antibody produced using a recombinant cell culture system. In
some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent is or comprises a chimeric antibody, for
example from mouse, rat, horse, pig, or other species, bearing human constant and/or variable
region domains.
[00171]     In some embodiments, a DV antibody agent includes one or more antibody
fragments, including, but not limited to Fab', Fab, F(ab')2, single domain antibodies (DABs), Fv,
scFv (single chain Fv), polypeptides with antibody CDRs, scaffolding domains that display the
CDRs (e.g., anticalins) or nanobodies. For example, a provided antibody may be a VHH (i.e., an
antigen-specific VHH) antibody that comprises only a heavy chain. Such antibody molecules
can be derived from a llama or other camelid antibody (e.g., a camelid IgG2 or IgG3, or a CDR
displaying frame from such camelid Ig) or from a shark antibody. In some embodiments the DV
antibody agent is or comprises an avibody (diabody, tribody, tetrabody). Techniques for
preparing and using various antibody-based constructs and fragments are well known in the art.
Means for preparing and characterizing antibodies are also well known in the art (See, e.g.,
Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1988; incorporated herein by
reference).
[00172]     In some embodiments, provided DV antibody agent include one or more "Mini
antibodies" or "minibodies". Minibodies are sFv polypeptide chains which include
oligomerization domains at their C-termini, separated from the sFv by a hinge region (Pack et al.
(1992) Biochem 31:1579-1584). The oligomerization domain comprises self-associating aX
                                                 58

helices, e.g., leucine zippers, that can be further stabilized by additional disulfide bonds. The
oligomerization domain is designed to be compatible with vectorial folding across a membrane, a
process thought to facilitate in vivo folding of the polypeptide into a functional binding protein.
Generally, minibodies are produced using recombinant methods well known in the art. See, e.g.,
Pack et al. (1992) Biochem 31:1579-1584; Cumber et al. (1992) JImmunology 149B: 120-126.
Antibody agent conjugates
[00173]      In some embodiments, a provided DV antibody agent is or comprises a conjugate, in
which an antibody moiety comprises or consists of the antibody or a functional portion thereof
with a conjugated moiety. In some particular embodiments, DV antibody agent as described
herein are provided and/or utilized in association with one or more active agents or "payloads",
such as a therapeutic or detection agent. In some such embodiments, association between the
DV antibody agent and the active agent and/or payload comprises at least one covalent
interaction so that a DV antibody conjugate is provided.
[00174]      In some embodiments, an antibody agent is a therapeutic payload agent is an effector
entity having a desired activity, e.g., anti-viral activity, anti-inflammatory activity, cytotoxic
activity, etc. Therapeutic agents can be or comprise any class of chemical entity including, for
example, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, nucleic acids, small organic molecules, non-biological
polymers, metals, ions, radioisotopes, etc. In some embodiments, therapeutic agents for use in
accordance with the present invention may have a biological activity relevant to the treatment of
one or more symptoms or causes of DV infection (e.g., for example, anti-viral, pain-relief, anti
inflammatory, immunomodulatory, sleep-inducing activities, etc). In some embodiments,
therapeutic agents for use in accordance with the present invention have one or more other
activities.
[00175]      In some embodiments, an antibody agent is a payload detection agent that is or
comprises any moiety which may be detected using an assay, for example due to its specific
functional properties and/or chemical characteristics. Non-limiting examples of such agents
include enzymes, radiolabels, haptens, fluorescent labels, phosphorescent molecules,
chemiluminescent molecules, chromophores, luminescent molecules, photoaffinity molecules,
colored particles or ligands, such as biotin.
                                                    59

[00176]     Many appropriate payload detection agents are known in the art, as are systems for
their attachment to antibodies (see, for e.g., U.S. Patent Nos. 5,021,236; 4,938,948; and
4,472,509, each incorporated herein by reference). Examples of such payload detection agents
include paramagnetic ions, radioactive isotopes, fluorochromes, NMR-detectable substances, X
ray imaging agents, among others. For example, in some embodiments, a paramagnetic ion is
one or more of chromium (III), manganese (II), iron (III), iron (II), cobalt (II), nickel (II), copper
(II), neodymium (III), samarium (III), ytterbium (III), gadolinium (III), vanadium (II), terbium
(III), dysprosium (III), holmium (III), erbium (III), lanthanum (III), gold (III), lead (II), and/or
bismuth (III).
[00177]     In some embodiments, a radioactive isotope is one or more of astatine211, l4carbon,
51chromium, 36chlorine, 57cobalt, 58cobalt, copper67, 152Eu, gallium67, 3hydrogen,
iodine123, iodine125, iodine131, indium1 11, 59iron, 32phosphorus, radium223, rhenium1 86,
rhenium188, 75selenium, 35sulphur, technicium99m, thorium227 and/or yttrium90.
Radioactively labeled antibody agents may be produced according to well-known methods in the
art. For instance, monoclonal antibodies can be iodinated by contact with sodium and/or
potassium iodide and a chemical oxidizing agent such as sodium hypochlorite, or an enzymatic
oxidizing agent, such as lactoperoxidase. Provided antibody agents may be labeled with
technetium99m by ligand exchange process, for example, by reducing pertechnate with stannous
solution, chelating the reduced technetium onto a Sephadex column and applying the antibody to
this column. In some embodiments, provided DV antibody agents are labeled using direct
labeling techniques, e.g., by incubating pertechnate, a reducing agent such as SNCl 2 , a buffer
solution such as sodium-potassium phthalate solution, and the antibody. Intermediary functional
groups which are often used to bind radioisotopes which exist as metallic ions to antibody are
diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA) or ethylene diaminetetracetic acid (EDTA).
[00178]     In some embodiments, a fluorescent label is or comprises one or more of Alexa 350,
Alexa 430, AMCA, BODIPY 630/650, BODIPY 650/665, BODIPY-FL, BODIPY-R6G,
BODIPY-TMR, BODIPY-TRX, Cascade Blue, Cy3, Cy5,6-FAM, Fluorescein Isothiocyanate,
HEX, 6-JOE, Oregon Green 488, Oregon Green 500, Oregon Green 514, Pacific Blue, REG,
Rhodamine Green, Rhodamine Red, Renographin, ROX, TAMRA, TET, Tetramethylrhodamine,
and/or Texas Red, among others.
                                                  60

[00179]      Several methods are known in the art for the attachment or conjugation of an antibody
agent to a payload. Some attachment methods involve the use of a metal chelate complex
employing, for example, an organic chelating agent such a diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid
anhydride (DTPA); ethylenetriaminetetraacetic acid; N-chloro-p-toluenesulfonamide; and/or
tetrachloro-3 a-6ax-diphenylglycouril-3 attached to the antibody (U.S. Patent Nos. 4,472,509 and
4,938,948, each incorporated herein by reference). Provided DV antibody agents may also be
reacted with an enzyme in the presence of a coupling agent such as glutaraldehyde or periodate.
Conjugates with fluorescein markers are prepared in the presence of these coupling agents or by
reaction with an isothiocyanate.
ProductionofAntibodies
[00180]      Provided antibody agents including antibodies, and/or characteristic portions thereof,
or nucleic acids encoding them, may be produced by any available means. Methods for
generating antibodies (e.g., monoclonal antibodies and/or polyclonal antibodies) are well known
in the art. It will be appreciated that a wide range of animal species can be used for the
production of antisera, including rabbit, mouse, rat, hamster, guinea pig or goat. The choice of
animal may be decided upon the ease of manipulation, costs or the desired amount of sera, as
would be known to one of skill in the art. It will be appreciated that antibody agent can also be
produced transgenically through the generation of a mammal or plant that is transgenic for the
immunoglobulin heavy and light chain sequences of interest and production of the antibody in a
recoverable form therefrom. In connection with the transgenic production in mammals,
antibodies can be produced in, and recovered from, the milk of goats, cows, or other mammals.
See, e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,827,690, 5,756,687, 5,750,172, and 5,741,957.
[00181]      Provided antibody agents (including antibodies and/or characteristic portions) may be
produced, for example, by utilizing a host cell system engineered to express an inventive
antibody-encoding nucleic acid. Alternatively or additionally, provided antibody agents may be
partially or fully prepared by chemical synthesis (e.g., using an automated peptide synthesizer).
[00182]      Exemplary sources for antibody agent preparations suitable for the invention include,
but are not limited to, conditioned culture medium derived from culturing a recombinant cell line
that expresses a protein of interest, or from a cell extract of, e.g., antibody-producing cells,
                                                  61

bacteria, fungal cells, insect cells, transgenic plants or plant cells, transgenic animals or animal
cells, or serum of animals, ascites fluid, hybridoma or myeloma supernatants. Suitable bacterial
cells include, but are not limited to, Escherichia coli cells. Examples of suitable E. coli strains
include: HB101, DH5a, GM2929, JM109, KW251, NM538, NM539, and any E. coli strain that
fails to cleave foreign DNA. Suitable fungal host cells that can be used include, but are not
limited to, Saccharomyces cerevisiae,Pichiapastorisand Aspergillus cells. Suitable insect cells
include, but are not limited to, S2 Schneider cells, D. Mel-2 cells, SF9, SF21, High-5 TM, Mimic
TM  -SF9, MG1 and KC1 cells. Suitable exemplary recombinant cell lines include, but are not
limited to, BALB/c mouse myeloma line, human retinoblasts (PER.C6), monkey kidney cells,
human embryonic kidney line (293), baby hamster kidney cells (BHK), Chinese hamster ovary
cells (CHO), mouse sertoli cells, African green monkey kidney cells (VERO-76), human cervical
carcinoma cells (HeLa), canine kidney cells, buffalo rat liver cells, human lung cells, human
liver cells, mouse mammary tumor cells, TRI cells, MRC 5 cells, FS4 cells, and human
hepatoma line (Hep G2).
[00183]      Antibody agents of interest can be expressed using various vectors (e.g., viral vectors)
known in the art and cells can be cultured under various conditions known in the art (e.g., fed
batch). Various methods of genetically engineering cells to produce antibodies are well known
in the art. See e.g. Ausabel et al., eds. (1990), Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (Wiley,
New York).
[00184]      Provided antibody agents may be purified, if desired, using filtration, centrifugation
and/or various chromatographic methods such as HPLC or affinity chromatography. In some
embodiments, fragments of provided antibody agents are obtained by methods which include
digestion with enzymes, such as pepsin or papain, and/or by cleavage of disulfide bonds by
chemical reduction.
Nucleic Acids
[00185]      In certain embodiments, the present invention provides nucleic acids which encode an
antibody agent. In some embodiments, the invention provides nucleic acids which are
complementary to nucleic acids which encode an antibody agent.
                                                   62

[00186]     In some embodiments, the invention provides nucleic acid molecules which hybridize
to nucleic acids encoding an antibody agent. Such nucleic acids can be used, for example, as
primers or as probes. To give but a few examples, such nucleic acids can be used as primers in
polymerase chain reaction (PCR), as probes for hybridization (including in situ hybridization),
and/or as primers for reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR).
[00187]     In certain embodiments, nucleic acids can be DNA or RNA, and can be single
stranded or double-stranded. In some embodiments, nucleic acids may include one or more non
natural nucleotides; In some embodiments, nucleic acids include only natural nucleotides.
Characterizationand/or identification ofDV-related agents
[00188]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides antibody agents that can be
used to identify and/or characterize one or more agents that mimic an DV epitope or agent and/or
induce a strong antibody response to DV.
[00189]     In some embodiments, such agents include one or more antibody-like binding
peptidomimetics. Liu et al. Cell Mol Biol (Noisy-le-grand). 2003 Mar;49(2):209-16 describe
"antibody like binding peptidomimetics" (ABiPs), which are peptides that act as pared-down
antibodies and have certain advantages of longer serum half-life as well as less cumbersome
synthesis methods. Likewise, in some aspects, antibody-like molecules are cyclic or bicyclic
peptides. For example, methods for isolating antigen-binding bicyclic peptides (e.g., by phage
display) and for using the such peptides are provided in U.S. Patent Pub. No. 20100317547,
incorporated herein by reference.
[00190]     In some embodiments, such agents include one or more antibody-like binding
scaffold proteins. For example, in some embodiments, one or more CDRs arising from an
antibody may be grafted onto a protein scaffold. In general, protein scaffolds may meet the
greatest number of the following criteria: (Skerra A., J Mol. Recogn., 2000, 13:167-187): good
phylogenetic conservation; known three-dimensional structure (as, for example, by
crystallography, NMR spectroscopy or any other technique known to a person skilled in the art);
small size; few or no post-transcriptional modifications; and/or easy to produce, express and
purify. The origin of such protein scaffolds can be, but is not limited to, fibronectin (e.g.,
                                                 63

fibronectin type III domain 10), lipocalin, anticalin (Skerra A., J Biotechnol., 2001, 74(4):257
75), protein Z arising from domain B of protein A of Staphylococcus aureus, thioredoxin A or
proteins with a repeated motif such as the "ankyrin repeat" (Kohl et al., PNAS, 2003, vol. 100,
No. 4, 1700-1705), the "armadillo repeat", the "leucine-rich repeat" and the "tetratricopeptide
repeat". For example, anticalins or lipocalin derivatives are described in US Patent Publication
Nos. 20100285564, 20060058510, 20060088908, 20050106660, and PCT Publication No.
W02006/056464, incorporated herein by reference. Scaffolds derived from toxins such as, for
example, toxins from scorpions, insects, plants, mollusks, etc., and the protein inhibitors of
neuronal NO synthase (PIN) may also be used in accordance with the present invention.
[00191]     In some embodiments, such agents include a mimotope, which can be used to disrupt
the interaction between an influenza virus and the HA polypeptide receptor. In some
embodiment, the mimotope is used to elicit an antibody response identical or similar to the that
elicited by its corresponding target epitope. In some embodiments, the target epitope is a
sequence that is conserved across more than one DV serotype. In some embodiment, the
conserved epitope is a sequence that is conserved across DV serotypes 1-4. In some
embodiments, the epitope is a conserved sequence located within the A-strand region of the E
glycoprotein. In some embodiments, a mimotope is a peptide. In some embodiments, a
mimotope is a small molecule, carbohydrate, lipid, or nucleic acid. In some embodiments,
mimotopes are peptide or non-peptide mimotopes of conserved influenza epitopes. In some
embodiments, by mimicking the structure of a defined viral epitope, a mimotope interferes with
the ability of DV particles to bind to its natural binding partners, e.g., by binding to the natural
binding partner itself.
[00192]     In some embodiments, such an agent is a stapled peptide. In some embodiments, the
stapled peptide comprises an amino acid sequences encoding one or more CDRs and/or FRs
comprising at least greater than 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97,
98 or 99 % homology and/or identity with the corresponding CDRs and/or FRs of an anti-DV
antibody (e.g., 4E1 1). In some embodiments, the stapled peptide comprises an amino acid
sequence encoding one or more VH and/or VL chain sequence comprising at least greater than
65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98 or 99 % homology and/or
identity with the corresponding VH and VL chains of an anti-DV antibody (e.g., 4E1 1).
                                                   64

[00193]     In certain embodiments, such an agent is or comprise a nucleic acid, such as DNA or
RNA. In certain embodiments, nucleic acids can be DNA or RNA, and can be single stranded or
double-stranded. In some embodiments, nucleic acids may include one or more non-natural
nucleotides. In some embodiments, nucleic acids include only natural nucleotides. In some
embodiments the nucleic acid is designed to mimic an epitope within a DV polypeptide. In some
embodiments the nucleic acid is designed to mimic a conserved epitope within one or more DV
serotypes. In some embodiments, such an agent is or comprises one or more oligonucleotides.
In some embodiments, such an agent is or comprises one or more oligonucleotides comprising a
secondary structure such as loop, hairpin, fold or combinations thereof. In some embodiments,
such an agent is or comprises one or more oligonucleotides comprising a higher ordered (tertiary
or quaternary) structure. In some embodiments, such an agent is or comprises an aptamer.
[00194]     In some embodiments, a vaccine may be designed to induce production of antibodies
that have been found to be lacking in the patient. In some embodiments, it is desirable for
vaccine compositions to comprise antigens that have a native conformation, mediate a protective
response (e.g., complement activation, virus neutralization, etc.), and/or can induce a strong
antibody response. In some embodiments, a vaccine contains an epitope or mimotope thereof to
which antibodies are not being produced naturally in the individual. For example, synthetic
peptide mimotopes isolated with DV antibodies (e.g., DV antibodies recognizing multiple
serotypes) have the potential to induce a potent immune response similar to the antibody used in
the original isolation of the mimotope. Administration of such a vaccine might induce a patient's
immune system to start producing a set of antibodies directed against the administered epitope.
It will be appreciated that the mimotopes (or epitopes) in accordance with the invention can be
used alone or in combination with recombinant proteins, inactivated DV virus, killed DV virus,
and/or as a cocktail of several different mimotopes.
[00195]     In some embodiments, vaccines to DV may be utilized for active immunization (i.e.,
immunization wherein microbes, proteins, peptides, epitopes, mimotopes, etc. are administered
to a subject). In some embodiments, vaccines to DV may comprise any agent that mimics at
least one conformational epitope of DV A-strand region of DV envelope glycoprotein may be
used. For example, the agent may be a peptide, protein, glycopeptide, glycoprotein, small
molecule, mimotope, organic compound, lipid, saccharide, organometallic compound, inorganic
compound, etc. In some embodiments, epitopes represented in a vaccine include those against
                                                 65

which antibodies known to prevent infection are directed. In some embodiments, epitopes
represented in a vaccine in accordance with the invention include ones that are conserved among
different genotypes and/or subtypes of the virus or among different strains of virus. In some
embodiments, peptides or proteins that contain conformationally defined epitopes of A-strand
region of DV are used in formulations of a vaccine to prevent, delay onset of, treat, ameliorate
symptoms of, and/or reduce severity of infection by DV. In some embodiments, DV A-strand
region epitopes may be linear epitopes. In some embodiments, A-strand region epitopes may be
a mixture of linear and conformational epitopes. In some embodiments, A-strand region
epitopes may be conformational epitopes. In some embodiments, peptide epitopes are less than
100 amino acids in length. In certain embodiments, peptide epitopes are less than 50, less than
40, less than 30, less than 20, or less than 10 amino acids in length. In some embodiments,
peptides to be used in formulating a vaccine are peptide fragments of A-strand region protein of
DV. Typically, a peptide is used that folds in a manner similar to its three-dimensional fold in
the native A-strand region protein, thus preserving the three-dimensional structure of the
conformational epitope.
Systems for Identifving and/or CharacterizingDV-binding agents
[00196]     The present invention provides a variety of systems for testing, characterizing, and/or
identifying DV antibody agents. In some embodiments, provided DV antibody agent are used to
identify and/or to characterize other DV-binding agents (e.g., antibodies, polypeptides, small
molecules, etc.).
[00197]     In some embodiments, provided DV-binding agents are characterized by such
systems and methods that involve contacting the DV-binding agent with one or more candidate
substrates, such as regions of DV polypeptides, N-glycans on DV polypeptides, DV receptors,
sialylated DV receptors, and/or glycans on sialylated DV receptors.
[00198]     In some embodiments, DV-binding agents (e.g., cross reactive antibodies) may be
tested, characterized, and/or identified using computational approaches. In some embodiments, a
computational approach involves using physicochemical features common to protein-protein
(e.g., antibody-antigen) interactions to predict protein-protein interaction and affinity enhancing
mutations. Potency of antibodies, for example, produced using this approach in neutralizing DV
                                                  66

could then be predicted by various assays known in the art (e.g., plaque reduction neutralization
test, ELISA, hemagglutination assay, and Western blot).
[00199]     In some embodiments, a DV-binding agent and/or candidate substrate may be free in
solution, fixed to a support, and/or expressed in and/or on the surface of a cell. The candidate
substrate and/or agents may be labeled, thereby permitting detection of binding. Either the DV
binding agent or the candidate substrate is the labeled species. Competitive binding formats may
be performed in which one of the substances is labeled, and one may measure the amount of free
label versus bound label to determine the effect on binding.
[00200]     In some embodiments, binding assays involve, for example, exposing a candidate
substrate to a DV-binding agent and detecting binding between the candidate substrate and the
agent. A binding assay may be conducted in vitro (e.g., in a candidate tube, comprising
substantially only the components mentioned; in cell-free extracts; and/or in substantially
purified components). Alternatively or additionally, binding assays may be conducted in cyto
and/or in vivo (e.g., within a cell, tissue, organ, and/or organism; described in further detail
below).
[00201]     In certain embodiments, at least one DV-binding agent is contacted with at least one
candidate substrate and an effect detected. In some embodiments, for example, a DV-binding
agent is contacted with a candidate substrate, and binding between the two entities is monitored.
In some embodiments, an assay may involve contacting a candidate substrate with a
characteristic portion of an agent. Binding of the DV agent to the candidate substrate is detected.
It will be appreciated that fragments, portions, homologs, variants, and/or derivatives of DV
binding agents may be employed, provided that they comprise the ability to bind one or more
candidate substrates.
[00202]     Binding of a DV agent to the candidate substrate may be determined by a variety of
methods well-known in the art. In some embodiments, binding measurements may be conducted
using SPR analysis. In some embodiments, SPR analysis may be used to measure affinity and
kinetic binding parameters of a DV-binding agent. In some embodiments, assays involving solid
phase-bound DV agents and detecting their interactions with one or more candidate substrates
may be used. Thus, a DV-binding agent may comprise a detectable marker, such as a
radioactive, fluorescent, and/or luminescent label. Furthermore, candidate substrate can be
                                                    67

coupled to substances which permit indirect detection (e.g. by means of employing an enzyme
which uses a chromogenic substrate and/or by means of binding a detectable antibody). Changes
in the conformation of DV-binding agents as the result of an interaction with a candidate
substrate may be detected, for example, by the change in the emission of the detectable marker.
Alternatively or additionally, solid phase-bound protein complexes may be analyzed by means of
mass spectrometry.
[00203]      In some embodiments, the DV-binding agent can be non-immobilized. In some
embodiments, the non-immobilized component may be labeled (with for example, a radioactive
label, an epitope tag, an enzyme-antibody conjugate, etc.). Alternatively or additionally, binding
may be determined by immunological detection techniques. For example, the reaction mixture
may be subjected to Western blotting and the blot probed with an antibody that detects the non
immobilized component. Alternatively or additionally, ELISA may be utilized to assay for
binding. In some embodiments, binding affinity of a DV agent to a candidate substrate may be
determined by using a high throughput indirect ELISA assay.
[00204]      In some embodiments, focus reduction neutralization test (FRNT) assay may be
utilized for measuring activity or neutralizing potency of a DV-binding agent. In some
embodiments, animal host may be used for measuring anti-DV activity in vivo.
[00205]      In certain embodiments, cells may be directly assayed for binding between DV agents
and candidate substrates. Immunohistochemical techniques, confocal techniques, and/or other
techniques to assess binding are well known to those of skill in the art. Various cell lines may be
utilized for such screening assays, including cells specifically engineered for this purpose.
Examples of cells used in the screening assays include mammalian cells, fungal cells, bacterial
cells, or viral cells. A cell may be a stimulated cell, such as a cell stimulated with a growth
factor. One of skill in the art would understand that the invention disclosed herein contemplates
a wide variety of in cyto assays for measuring the ability of DV-binding agents to bind to
candidate substrates.
[00206]      Depending on the assay, cell and/or tissue culture may be required. A cell may be
examined using any of a number of different physiologic assays. Alternatively or additionally,
molecular analysis may be performed, including, but not limited to, western blotting to monitor
                                                  68

protein expression and/or test for protein-protein interactions; mass spectrometry to monitor
other chemical modifications; etc.
[00207]     In some embodiments, a binding assays described herein may be performed using a
range of concentrations of DV-binding agents and/or candidate substrates. In some
embodiments, the binding assays described herein are used to assess the ability of a candidate
substrate to bind to a DV agent over range of antibody concentrations (e.g. greater than about
100 pg/ml, about 100 pg/ml, about 50 pg/nl, about 40 pg/ml, about 30 pig/ml, about 20 pg/ml,
about 10 pg/ml, about 5 pg/ml, about 4 pg/ml, about 3 pg/ml, about 2 pg/ml, about 1.75 pg/ml,
about 1.5 pg/ml, about 1.25 pig/ml, about 1.0 pg/ml, about 0.9 pg/ml, about 0.8 ptg/ml, about 0.7
pg/ml, about 0.6 [tg/ml, about 0.5 ptg/ml, about 0.4 pLg/ml, about 0.3 pg/nl, about 0.2 tg/ml,
about 0.1 pig/ml, about 0.05 Vg/ml, about 0.01 pg/ml, and/or less than about 0.01 pg/ml).
[00208]     In some embodiments, any of the binding studies described herein can be executed in
a high throughput fashion. Using high throughput assays, it is possible to screen up to several
thousand agents in a single day. In some embodiments, each well of a microtiter plate can be
used to run a separate assay against a selected candidate substrate, or, if concentration and/or
incubation time effects are to be observed, every 5 - 10 wells can test a single candidate
substrate. Thus, a single standard microtiter plate can assay up to 96 binding interactions
between agents and candidate substrates; if 1536 well plates are used, then a single plate can
assay up to 1536 binding interactions between agents and candidate substrates; and so forth. It is
possible to assay many plates per day. For example, up to about 6,000, about 20,000, about
50,000, or more than about 100,000 assay screens can be performed on binding interactions
between antibodies and candidate substrates using high throughput systems in accordance with
the present invention.
[00209]     In some embodiments, such methods utilize an animal host. As used herein, an
"animal host" includes any animal model suitable for influenza research. For example, animal
hosts suitable for the invention can be any mammalian hosts, including primates, ferrets, cats,
dogs, cows, horses, rodents such as, mice, hamsters, rabbits, and rats. In certain embodiments,
an animal host used for the invention is a ferret. In particular, in some embodiments, an animal
host is naYve to viral exposure or infection prior to administration of an agent (optionally in an
inventive composition). In some embodiments, the animal host is inoculated with, infected with,
                                                  69

or otherwise exposed to virus prior to or concurrent with administration of an agent. An animal
host used in the practice of the present invention can be inoculated with, infected with, or
otherwise exposed to virus by any method known in the art. In some embodiments, an animal
host may be inoculated with, infected with, or exposed to virus intranasally.
[00210]      Naive and/or inoculated animals may be used for any of a variety of studies. For
example, such animal models may be used for virus transmission studies as in known in the art.
It is contemplated that the use of ferrets in virus transmission studies may serve as a reliable
predictor for virus transmission in humans. Virus transmission studies may be used to test
agents. For example, DV-binding agents may be administered to a suitable animal host before,
during or after virus transmission studies in order to determine the efficacy of said agent in
blocking virus binding and/or infectivity in the animal host. Using information gathered from
virus transmission studies in an animal host, one may predict the efficacy of an agent in blocking
virus binding and/or infectivity in a human host.
PharmaceuticalCompositions
[00211]      The present invention provides compositions comprising one or more provided
antibody agents. In some embodiments the present invention provides at least one antibody and
at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Such pharmaceutical compositions may
optionally comprise and/or be administered in combination with one or more additional
therapeutically active substances. In some embodiments, provided pharmaceutical compositions
are useful in medicine. In some embodiments, provided pharmaceutical compositions are useful
as prophylactic agents (i.e., vaccines) in the treatment or prevention of DV infection or of
negative ramifications associated or correlated with DV infection. In some embodiments,
provided pharmaceutical compositions are useful in therapeutic applications, for example in
individuals suffering from or susceptible to DV infection. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions are formulated for administration to humans.
[00212]      For example, pharmaceutical compositions provided herein may be provided in a
sterile injectible form (e.g., a form that is suitable for subcutaneous injection or intravenous
infusion). For example, in some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions are provided in a
liquid dosage form that is suitable for injection. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
                                                    70

compositions are provided as powders (e.g. lyophilized and/or sterilized), optionally under
vacuum, which are reconstituted with an aqueous diluent (e.g., water, buffer, salt solution, etc.)
prior to injection. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions are diluted and/or
reconstituted in water, sodium chloride solution, sodium acetate solution, benzyl alcohol
solution, phosphate buffered saline, etc. In some embodiments, powder should be mixed gently
with the aqueous diluent (e.g., not shaken).
[00213]      In some embodiments, provided pharmaceutical compositions comprise one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients (e.g., preservative, inert diluent, dispersing agent, surface
active agent and/or emulsifier, buffering agent, etc.). In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions comprise one or more preservatives. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions comprise no preservative.
[00214]      In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions are provided in a form that can
be refrigerated and/or frozen. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions are provided
in a form that cannot be refrigerated and/or frozen. In some embodiments, reconstituted
solutions and/or liquid dosage forms may be stored for a certain period of time after
reconstitution (e.g., 2 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours, 2 days, 5 days, 7 days, 10 days, 2 weeks, a
month, two months, or longer).
[00215]      Liquid dosage forms and/or reconstituted solutions may comprise particulate matter
and/or discoloration prior to administration. In some embodiments, a solution should not be used
if discolored or cloudy and/or if particulate matter remains after filtration.
[00216]      Formulations of the pharmaceutical compositions described herein may be prepared
by any method known or hereafter developed in the art of pharmacology. In some embodiments,
such preparatory methods include the step of bringing active ingredient into association with one
or more excipients and/or one or more other accessory ingredients, and then, if necessary and/or
desirable, shaping and/or packaging the product into a desired single- or multi-dose unit.
[00217]      A pharmaceutical composition in accordance with the invention may be prepared,
packaged, and/or sold in bulk, as a single unit dose, and/or as a plurality of single unit doses. As
used herein, a "unit dose" is discrete amount of the pharmaceutical composition comprising a
predetermined amount of the active ingredient. The amount of the active ingredient is generally
                                                  71

equal to a dose which would be administered to a subject and/or a convenient fraction of such a
dose such as, for example, one-half or one-third of such a dose.
[00218]     Relative amounts of active ingredient, pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, and/or
any additional ingredients in a pharmaceutical composition in accordance with the invention may
vary, depending upon the identity, size, and/or condition of the subject treated and/or depending
upon the route by which the composition is to be administered. By way of example, the
composition may comprise between 0.1% and 100% (w/w) active ingredient.
[00219]     Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may additionally comprise a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, which, as used herein, may be or comprise solvents,
dispersion media, diluents, or other liquid vehicles, dispersion or suspension aids, surface active
agents, isotonic agents, thickening or emulsifying agents, preservatives, solid binders, lubricants
and the like, as suited to the particular dosage form desired. Remington's The Science and
Practice of Pharmacy, 21st Edition, A. R. Gennaro, (Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore,
MD, 2006) discloses various excipients used in formulating pharmaceutical compositions and
known techniques for the preparation thereof. Except insofar as any conventional excipient
medium is incompatible with a substance or its derivatives, such as by producing any undesirable
biological effect or otherwise interacting in a deleterious manner with any other component(s) of
the pharmaceutical composition, its use is contemplated to be within the scope of this invention.
Vaccines
[00220]     In some embodiments, the present invention provides vaccine compositions for use,
and/or for exam in passive immunization (i.e., immunization wherein antibodies are administered
to a subject) of a subject who is suffering from or susceptible to DV infection. In some
embodiments, passive immunization occurs when antibodies are transferred from mother to fetus
during pregnancy. In some embodiments, passive immunization includes administration of
antibody agents directly to an individual (e.g., by injection, orally, nasally, etc.).
[00221]     In some embodiments, prophylactic applications may include administering vaccines.
In some embodiments, vaccination is tailored to the individual patient. For example, as
described below, serum may be collected from a patient and tested for presence of DV, and in
                                                  72

some embodiments for one or more particular DV serotypes. In some embodiments, appropriate
recipients of provided vaccines are individuals suffering from or susceptible to infection with
one or more DV serotypes bound and/or neutralized by a provided antibody.
[00222]      In some embodiments, a vaccine is administered orally, intranasally, subcutaneously,
intramuscularly, intradermally, or via any other medically-appropriate route of administration. It
will be appreciated that each route of administration may require distinct formulations or
delivery mechanisms and such variable parameters are contemplated as within the scope of the
present invention. In some embodiments, the route of administration and/or formulation may be
dictated in part by the age and/or condition of the subject. For example, administration of a
vaccine to a baby may be performed via injection to the anterolateral aspect of the thigh, due to
the large muscle mass. In some embodiments, where the subject is a child or an adult,
administration of a vaccine to the deltoid muscle may be preferred. It is understood that sounds
medical judgment should be used to determine the proper route and/or formulation for
administration to a particular subject.
[00223]      In some embodiments, a vaccine composition comprises at least one adjuvant. Any
adjuvant may be used in accordance with the present invention. A large number of adjuvants are
known; a useful compendium of many such compounds is prepared by the National Institutes of
Health and can be found on www.niaid.nih.gov/daids/vaccine/pdf/compendium.pdf;          see also
Allison (1998, Dev. Biol. Stand., 92:3-11; incorporated herein by reference), Unkeless et al.
(1998, Annu. Rev. Immunol., 6:251-281; incorporated herein by reference), and Phillips et al.
(1992, Vaccine, 10:151-158; incorporated herein by reference). Hundreds of different adjuvants
are known in the art and could be employed in the practice of the present invention. Exemplary
adjuvants that can be utilized in accordance with the invention include, but are not limited to,
cytokines, gel-type adjuvants (e.g., aluminum hydroxide, aluminum phosphate, calcium
phosphate, etc.); microbial adjuvants (e.g., immunomodulatory DNA sequences that include
CpG motifs; endotoxins such as monophosphoryl lipid A; exotoxins such as cholera toxin, E.
coli heat labile toxin, and pertussis toxin; muramyl dipeptide, etc.); oil-emulsion and emulsifier
based adjuvants (e.g., Freund's Adjuvant, MF59 [Novartis], SAF, etc.); particulate adjuvants
(e.g., liposomes, biodegradable microspheres, saponins, etc.); synthetic adjuvants (e.g., nonionic
block copolymers, muramyl peptide analogues, polyphosphazene, synthetic polynucleotides,
etc.); and/or combinations thereof. Other exemplary adjuvants include some polymers (e.g.,
                                                  73

polyphosphazenes; described in U.S. Patent 5,500,161, which is incorporated herein by
reference), Q57, QS21, squalene, tetrachlorodecaoxide, etc. Pharmaceutically acceptable
excipients have been previously described in further detail in the above section entitled
"Pharmaceutical Compositions."
Combination Therapv
[00224]     It will be appreciated that DV antibody agents in accordance with the present
invention and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof can be employed in combination
therapies. By "in combination with," it is not intended to imply that the agents must be
administered at the same time and/or formulated for delivery together, although these methods of
delivery are within the scope of the invention. Compositions can be administered concurrently
with, prior to, or subsequent to, one or more other desired therapeutics or medical procedures. In
will be appreciated that therapeutically active agents utilized in combination may be
administered together in a single composition or administered separately in different
compositions. In general, each agent will be administered at a dose and/or on a time schedule
determined for that agent.
[00225]     The particular combination of therapies (e.g., therapeutics or procedures) to employ
in a combination regimen will take into account compatibility of the desired therapeutics and/or
procedures and the desired therapeutic effect to be achieved. It will also be appreciated that
pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be employed in combination therapies
(e.g., combination vaccine therapies), that is, the pharmaceutical compositions can be
administered concurrently with, prior to, or subsequent to, one or more other desired therapeutic
and/or vaccination procedures.
[00226]     Therapeutically effective amounts of antibody agents in accordance with the
invention combined with for use in combination with a provided pharmaceutical composition
and at least one other active ingredient. In some embodiments, an active ingredient is an anti
viral agent, such as, but not limited to, interferons (e.g., interferon a-2b, interferon-7, etc.), anti
DV monoclonal antibodies, anti-DV polyclonal antibodies, RNA polymerase inhibitors, protease
inhibitors, helicase inhibitors, immunomodulators, antisense compounds, short interfering RNAs,
short hairpin RNAs, micro RNAs, RNA aptamers, ribozymes, and combinations thereof. The
                                                   74

particular combination of therapies to employ in a combination regimen will generally take into
account compatibility of the desired therapeutics and/or procedures and the desired therapeutic
effect to be achieved. It will also be appreciated that the therapies and/or vaccines employed
may achieve a desired effect for the same disorder (for example, an inventive antigen may be
administered concurrently with another DV vaccine), or they may achieve different effects.
[00227]     It will be appreciated that the therapies employed may achieve a desired effect for the
same purpose (for example, DV antibodies useful for treating, preventing, and/or delaying the
onset of DV infection may be administered concurrently with another agent useful for treating,
preventing, and/or delaying the onset of DV infection), or they may achieve different effects
(e.g., control of any adverse effects). The invention encompasses the delivery of pharmaceutical
compositions in combination with agents that may improve their bioavailability, reduce and/or
modify their metabolism, inhibit their excretion, and/or modify their distribution within the body.
[00228]      In some embodiments, agents utilized in combination with be utilized at levels that
do not exceed the levels at which they are utilized individually. In some embodiments, the levels
utilized in combination will be lower than those utilized individually.
[00229]     In some embodiments, DV antibodies in accordance with the invention may be
administered with interferon, with RNA polymerase inhibitors, or with both interferon and RNA
polymerase inhibitors.
[00230]     In some embodiments, combination therapy may involve administrations of a
plurality of antibody agents directed to a single epitope (e.g. a single conformational epitope). In
some embodiments, combination therapy can comprise a plurality of antibody agents that
recognize distinct epitopes (e.g., on the same viral envelope protein or on different viral envelope
proteins, where epitopes may or may not be conformational), for example to simultaneously
interfere with multiple mechanisms in the infectious process.
[00231]     In certain embodiments, compositions in accordance with the invention comprise
exactly one antibody agent to A-strand region. In certain embodiments, compositions include
and/or combination therapy utilize exactly two DV A-strand region antibody agents.
[00232]     It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that any permutation or combination of
antibody agents in accordance with the present invention can be combined with any other
                                                   75

antibody agent to formulate compositions and/or combination therapy regimens comprising a
plurality of different antibody agents.
Methods of Administration
[00233]     DV antibody agents in accordance with the invention and pharmaceutical
compositions thereof in accordance with the present invention may be administered according to
any appropriate route and regimen. In some embodiments, a route or regimen is one that has
been correlated with a positive therapeutic benefit. In some embodiments, a route or regimen is
one that has been approved by the FDA and/or EP.
[00234]     In some embodiments, the exact amount administered may vary from subject to
subject, depending on one or more factors as is well known in the medical arts. Such factors
may include, for example, one or more of species, age, general condition of the subject, severity
of the infection, particular composition, its mode of administration, its mode of activity, the
disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder; the activity of the specific DV antibody
agent employed; the specific pharmaceutical composition administered; the half-life of the
composition after administration; the age, body weight, general health, sex, and diet of the
subject; the time of administration, route of administration, and rate of excretion of the specific
compound employed; the duration of the treatment; drugs used in combination or coincidental
with the specific compound employed and the like. Pharmaceutical compositions may be
formulated in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. It will be
understood, however, that the total daily usage of the compositions of the present invention will
be decided by the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment.
[00235]     Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered by any
route, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. In some embodiments, pharmaceutical
compositions of the present invention are administered by oral (PO), intravenous (IV),
intramuscular (IM), intra-arterial, intramedullary, intrathecal, subcutaneous (SQ),
intraventricular, transdermal, interdermal, intradermal, rectal (PR), vaginal, intraperitoneal (IP),
intragastric (IG), topical (e.g., by powders, ointments, creams, gels, lotions, and/or drops),
mucosal, intranasal, buccal, enteral, vitreal, sublingual; by intratracheal instillation, bronchial
                                                  76

instillation, and/or inhalation; as an oral spray, nasal spray, and/or aerosol, and/or through a
portal vein catheter.
[00236]      In specific embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the present
invention and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered intravenously, for
example, by intravenous infusion. In specific embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance
with the present invention and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered by
intramuscular injection. In specific embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the
present invention and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered by
subcutaneous injection. In specific embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the
present invention and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered via portal
vein catheter. However, the invention encompasses the delivery of DV antibody agents in
accordance with the present invention and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof by any
appropriate route taking into consideration likely advances in the sciences of drug delivery.
[00237]      In certain embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the present invention
and/or pharmaceutical compositions thereof in accordance with the invention may be
administered at dosage levels sufficient to deliver from about 0.001 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg,
from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, from about 0.1 mg/kg to about 40 mg/kg, from about
0.5 mg/kg to about 30 mg/kg, from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 10 mg/kg, from about 0.1 mg/kg
to about 10 mg/kg, or from about 1 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg of subject body weight per day to
obtain the desired therapeutic effect. The desired dosage may be delivered more than three times
per day, three times per day, two times per day, once per day, every other day, every third day,
every week, every two weeks, every three weeks, every four weeks, every two months, every six
months, or every twelve months. In certain embodiments, the desired dosage may be delivered
using multiple administrations (e.g., two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven,
twelve, thirteen, fourteen, or more administrations).
ProphylacticApplications
[00238]      In some embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the invention may be
utilized for prophylactic applications. In some embodiments, prophylactic applications involve
systems and methods for preventing, inhibiting progression of, and/or delaying the onset of DV
                                                   77

infection, and/or any other DV-associated condition in individuals susceptible to and/or
displaying symptoms of DV infection. In some embodiments, prophylactic applications involve
systems and methods for preventing, inhibiting progression of, and/or delaying the onset of
infection of the brain. In some embodiments, prophylactic applications involve systems and
methods for preventing, inhibiting progression of, and/or delaying the impairment of vital organs
(e.g., liver).
DiagnosticApplications
[00239]      In some embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the invention are used
for diagnostic applications. For example, by virtue of the variety of binding profiles of DV
antibody agents, diagnostic assays may be employed which will detect a plurality of DV
serotypes, so as to provide a pan-DV antibody agent, while at the same time being able to dissect
individual serotypes by subtractive analysis.
[00240]      For diagnostic purposes, antibody agents may be used in a wide variety of formats for
detecting A-strand region of envelope glycoprotein, discerning DV serotypes, detecting virions
and antibodies (see, e.g., U.S. Patent Number 5,695,390; incorporated herein by reference).
Antibody agents may be used individually or in combination with other antibodies of the subject
group or other antibodies or with lectins which bind to the glycosyl groups present on DV
envelope proteins. For diagnostic purposes, a wide variety of labels may be employed, which for
the most part have been mentioned previously. These include, but are not limited to,
fluorophores, chemiluminescent moieties, radioisotopes, enzymes, particles (e.g., colloidal
carbon particles, gold particles, latex particles, etc.) ligands for which there are high affinity
receptors, and prolabels, which can be activated to provide a detectable signal.
[00241]      In some embodiments, a surface is coated with a protein, which can bind to DV
antigens as free protein (e.g., circulating proteins) or as part of an intact or partially intact virion.
One may use antibodies of the subject invention which bind to multiple DV serotypes or to
lectins (e.g., Galanthus nivalis lectin; "GNA").
[00242]      In some embodiments, assays may involve contacting a surface with a medium,
which may contain free or DV-associated protein(s), where the medium may be the sample or a
                                                   78

solution of known A-strand region of one or more serotypes. After incubation and washing to
remove non-specifically bound protein, the assay may proceed in various manners depending
upon what is being assayed. Where a blood sample suspected of being seropositive is being
assayed, the sample may be applied to the layer of A-strand region protein, incubated, and
washed, and the presence of human antibodies bound to the protein layer determined. One may
use labeled a-human antibodies (other than against the isotype of the subject antibodies, where
the subject antibodies have been initially used). In assays for antibodies in seropositive subjects,
subject antibodies may be used as controls with the same reagent used to detect any human anti
DV antibodies in the sera of such subjects. The specificity of the antibodies in the sample can be
confirmed by using the subject antibodies, which are differentially labeled from the anti-human
antibodies and determine whether they are blocked by the antibodies in the sample.
[00243]     Where the sample is assayed for DV A-strand region protein, detection employs
labeled subject antibodies, the selection depending upon whether one is interested in genotyping
or detection of A-strand region protein. After washing away non-specifically bound antibody,
the presence of labeled antibodies is determined by detecting the presence of the label in
accordance with known techniques. Alternatively or additionally, where the subject antibodies
are bound to a surface, a labeled lectin for A-strand region may be employed to detect the
presence of A-strand region protein.
[00244]     Antibody agents in accordance with the invention can be used to measure the
reactivity of other antibodies, including antibodies in sera, monoclonal antibodies, antibodies
expressed as a result of genetic engineering, etc. In some embodiments, intact virions are used.
In some embodiments, conformationally conserved envelope proteins are used. For virion
capture, see, for example, Kimura et al., 1998, J. Med. Virology, 56:25-32; Morita et al., 1996,
Hapato-Gastroenterology, 43:582-585; Sata et al., 1993, Virology, 196:354-357; and Hijikata et
al., 1993, J. Virol., 67:1953-1958; all of which are incorporated herein by reference. One
protocol involves steps of coating a solid support with a lectin (e.g., GNA) and then contacting
the surface with a medium (e.g., serum of a seropositive patient) comprising intact DV virions.
Additives which might destroy virions should usually be avoided (e.g., detergents). After
incubating the medium and washing to remove non-specifically bound components of the
medium, virions may be contacted with antibodies in accordance with the invention and
antibodies of the sample. This may be performed concurrently or consecutively, where the
                                                  79

sample is added first. An amount of the subject antibody is used which is sensitive to
displacement by another antibody. Such amount may be determined empirically, and one may
wish to use different amounts of the subject antibody in a series of tests. By knowing the signal,
which is obtained in the absence and presence of the sample, one can determine the reactivity or
binding affinity of the antibodies in the sample. Various techniques may be used to determine
the amount of a subject antibody bound to the virions. Where the subject antibodies are labeled,
e.g., with biotin or digoxigenin, streptavidin or anti-digoxigenin labeled with a fluorophore or
enzyme whose substrate produces a detectable signal can serve to determine the amount of the
subject antibodies.
[00245]      Labeled subject antibody agents may be used in assaying for the presence of DV from
biopsy material. Labeled antibody may be incubated with immobilized biopsy material, such as
a liver slice, with a solution of one or more of the subject labeled antibodies. After washing
away non-specifically bound antibodies, the presence of the antibodies bound to the cells of the
biopsied tissue may be detected in accordance with the nature of the label.
[00246]      In some embodiments, DV antibody agents in accordance with the invention can be
used to identify DV receptors. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the multitude of ways this
can be accomplished (Sambrook J., Fritsch E. and Maniatis T. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
Manual. Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 1989; and Ausubel et al., eds.,
Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, 1987; both of which are incorporated herein by
reference). Typically, protein and peptide receptors can be identified by determining whether an
antibody to A-strand region of DV envelope glycoprotein can inhibit attachment of DV virions to
a cell susceptible to DV infection. Thus, receptors for DV A-strand region proteins and peptides
can be identified in this manner. A susceptible cell can be incubated in the presence of DV and
anti-DV A-strand region antibody, and a cell-binding assay can be utilized to determine whether
attachment is decreased in the presence of the antibody.
[00247]      Cells expressing putative receptors for DV and/or libraries of putative receptors for
DV may be screened for their abilities to bind DV. For example, cells expressing a putative DV
receptor (e.g., a receptor for DV A-strand region) can be contacted with an DV protein or peptide
in the presence of an antibody for a time and under conditions sufficient to allow binding of the
DV protein or peptide to putative receptor on the surface of the cell. Alternatively or
                                                   80

additionally, DV proteins, peptides, or virions can be pre-incubated with antibody prior to
contacting the putative receptor on the cell surface. Binding can be detected by any means
known in the art, e.g., flow cytometry etc. (see Ausubel et al. or Sambrook et al., supra). A
decrease in binding to the surface of the cell in the presence of antibody compared to binding in
the absence of the cell in the absence of the antibody indicates the identification of an DV
receptor.
[00248]     In some embodiments, methods of identifying DV receptors include the use of solid
supports, such as beads, columns, and the like. For example, receptors for DV proteins and
peptides (e.g., A-strand region proteins and/or fragments thereof) and/or DV virions can be
identified by attaching an DV antibody to a solid support and then contacting the antibody with
an DV protein or peptide for a time sufficient for the DV protein or peptide to bind to the
antibody. This provides an DV protein ligand for putative DV receptors that can be contacted
with the antibody:ligand complex on the solid support for a time and under conditions sufficient
to allow binding of a receptor to the DV protein or peptide. Proteins can be expressed from a
library or provided as a cell extract or purified protein preparation from natural or recombinant
cells. Once specific binding complexes between the DV protein peptide are formed, unbound
DV proteins or peptides, e.g., library proteins or peptide that did not bind specifically to the DV
proteins or peptides, are removed, e.g., by standard washing steps. Bound proteins are then
eluted and identified, e.g., by gel electrophoresis.
Kits
[00249]     The invention provides a variety of kits for conveniently and/or effectively carrying
out methods in accordance with the present invention. Kits typically comprise one or more DV
antibody agents in accordance with the invention. In some embodiments, kits comprise a
collection of different DV antibody agents to be used for different purposes (e.g., diagnostics,
treatment, and/or prophylaxis). Typically kits will comprise sufficient amounts of DV antibody
agents to allow a user to perform multiple administrations to a subject(s) and/or to perform
multiple experiments. In some embodiments, kits are supplied with or include one or more DV
antibody agents that have been specified by the purchaser.
                                                   81

[00250]      In certain embodiments, kits for use in accordance with the present invention may
include one or more reference samples; instructions (e.g., for processing samples, for performing
tests, for interpreting results, for solubilizing DV antibody agents, for storage of DV antibody
agents, etc.); buffers; and/or other reagents necessary for performing tests. In certain
embodiments kits can comprise panels of antibodies. Other components of kits may include
cells, cell culture media, tissue, and/or tissue culture media.
[00251]      Kits may comprise instructions for use. For example, instructions may inform the
user of the proper procedure by which to prepare a pharmaceutical composition comprising DV
antibody agents and/or the proper procedure for administering pharmaceutical compositions to a
subject.
[00252]      In some embodiments, kits include a number of unit dosages of a pharmaceutical
composition comprising DV antibody agents. A memory aid may be provided, for example in
the form of numbers, letters, and/or other markings and/or with a calendar insert, designating the
days/times in the treatment schedule in which dosages can be administered. Placebo dosages,
and/or calcium dietary supplements, either in a form similar to or distinct from the dosages of the
pharmaceutical compositions, may be included to provide a kit in which a dosage is taken every
day.
[00253]      Kits may comprise one or more vessels or containers so that certain of the individual
components or reagents may be separately housed. Kits may comprise a means for enclosing the
individual containers in relatively close confinement for commercial sale, e.g., a plastic box, in
which instructions, packaging materials such as styrofoam, etc., may be enclosed.
[00254]      In some embodiments, kits are used in the treatment, diagnosis, and/or prophylaxis of
a subject suffering from and/or susceptible to DV. In some embodiments, such kits comprise (i)
at least one DV antibody agent; (ii) a syringe, needle, applicator, etc. for administration of the at
least one DV antibody agent to a subject; and (iii) instructions for use.
[00255]      In some embodiments, kits are used in the treatment, diagnosis, and/or prophylaxis of
a subject suffering from and/or susceptible to DV. In some embodiments, such kits comprise (i)
at least one DV antibody agent provided as a lyophilized powder; and (ii) a diluent for
reconstituting the lyophilized powder. Such kits may optionally comprise a syringe, needle,
                                                   82

applicator, etc. for administration of the at least one DV antibody agent to a subject; and/or
instructions for use.
[00256]      The present invention provides kits containing reagents for the generation of vaccines
comprising at least one DV antibody agent. In some embodiments, such kits may include cells
expressing DV antibodies, characteristic portions thereof, and/or biologically active portions
thereof; (ii) media for growing the cells; and (iii) columns, resin, buffers, tubes, and other tools
useful for antibody purification. In some embodiments, such kits may include (i) plasmids
containing nucleotides encoding DV antibodies, characteristic portions thereof, and/or
biologically active portions thereof; (ii) cells capable of being transformed with the plasmids,
such as mammalian cell lines, including but not limited to, Vero and MDCK cell lines; (iii)
media for growing the cells; (iv) expression plasmids containing no nucleotides encoding DV
antibodies as negative controls; (v) columns, resin, buffers, tubes, and other tools useful for
antibody purification; and (vi) instructions for use.
[00257]      In some embodiments, kits are used to detect the presence of DV in one or more
samples. Such samples may be pathological samples, including, but not limited to, blood,
serum/plasma, peripheral blood mononuclear cells/peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBMC/PBL),
sputum, urine, feces, throat swabs, dermal lesion swabs, cerebrospinal fluids, cervical smears,
pus samples, food matrices, and tissues from various parts of the body such as brain, spleen, and
liver. Such samples may be environmental samples, including, but not limited to, soil, water,
and flora. Other samples that have not been listed may also be applicable. In some
embodiments, such kits comprise (i) at least one DV antibody; (ii) a sample known to contain
DV, as a positive control; and (iii) a sample known not to contain DV, as a negative control; and
(iv) instructions for use.
[00258]      In some embodiments, kits are used to neutralize DV in one or more samples. Such
kits may provide materials needed to treat an DV-containing sample with at least one DV
antibody agent and to test the ability of the treated sample to infect cultured cells relative to
untreated sample. Such kits may include (i) at least one DV antibody agent; (ii) cells capable of
being cultured and infected with DV; (iii) an antibody that is incapable of binding to and
neutralizing DV, as a negative control; (iv) an antibody that is capable of binding to and
                                                    83

neutralizing DV, as a positive control; (v) a sample known not to contain DV, as a negative
control; (vi) a sample known to contain DV, as a positive control; and (vii) instructions for use.
                                               Examples
[00259]      The present invention will be better understood in connection with the following
Examples. However, it should be understood that these examples are for illustrative purposes
only and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Various changes and modifications to
the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art and such changes and
modifications including, without limitation, those relating to the formulations and/or methods of
the invention may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of the
appended claims.
 Example 1: Prediction of protein-protein complex structure by analyzing physicochemical
                                      features of the interaction
[00260]      Studies in this Example illustrate the development and use of key physicochemical
features to model a protein-protein (e.g., antigen-antibody) interaction. Analysis in this Example
assists in distinguishing accurate native-like structures for an antigen-antibody interaction from
inaccurate structures and thus, helps in overcoming the limitations of using only energetic
functions to rank poses, as performed in modeling of protein-protein interaction using
computational docking models. Furthermore, the failure to identify the native pose of nine test
cases analyzed in this Example, highlights the limitations of the current search algorithm and the
challenges associated with designing affinity enhancing mutations for antigen-antibody
complexes.
[00261]      To capture as many geometrical and chemical properties that form the basis of a
molecular recognition, thirteen atomic level features: seven chemical and six physical (Table 1)
were used to describe an antigen-antibody interface. Further, a data set comprising of 77 non
redundant 3D structures of antigen-antibody complexes was assembled (see Methods section)
and split into two parts, a training set consisting of 40 structures and a test set consisting of the
remaining 37 structures. Corresponding to each structure, 100 decoy models were constructed
                                                   84

using computational docking (see Methods section), yielding a total of 7,777 structures (7,700
decoy + 77 x-ray). In the training phase, multivariate logistic regression analysis (MLR) was
used to determine the relationship between each feature (explanatory variable) and the degree to
which it can successfully discriminate x-ray versus decoys poses (outcome variable). This
analysis assisted in achieving a subset of all the explanatory variables that could be combined to
predict the value of the outcome variable. Input features generated from each PDB file (and its
decoys) were represented as standardized Z-scores to prevent non-uniform learning, which can
lead to over (or under) estimation of significance. For the prediction phase, the pre-computed
significant features were employed to predict the probability that a structure in the test data set is
native-like.
[00262]      The results from MLR analysis suggested that the relative dominance of individual
features affecting the probability of accurately discriminating native versus decoy structures was
in the order of ZEPII > main chain-main chain H-bonds > density of H-bonds > percentage of
charged groups > density of cation-pi interactions > buried surface area > percentage of neutral
polar groups > density of ionic bonds. Each of the above features was found to be significant at
an alpha level of 0.05. Based on the logistic regression coefficients, H-bond and ionic bond
density, main chain-main chain H-bonds and buried surface area appear to be over-estimated in
the docked models. This is anticipated since increasing the values of the above features tends to
maximize the scoring function. On the contrary, ZEPII, cation-pi interactions, percentage of
charged and neutral polar groups appear to be under-represented in the docked models. Cation
pi interactions, percentage of charged and neutral polar groups do not contribute significantly to
the energy scoring function; hence these features were not optimized in the docked interfaces.
Further, assessment of docked models shows that docking procedure does not faithfully
recapitulate the pairwise interactions common to dissociable antigen-antibody complexes; hence
the mock interfaces were found to have low ZEPII values.
[00263]      Next, MLR was used to predict x-ray structures of 37 antigen-antibody interactions in
the test data set using the pre-computed significant features, and then the sensitivity of the MLR
based prediction was compared to those of the ZRANK energy function, used in docked models
(see Methods section). Overall, MLR was shown to be better at predicting x-ray structures than
ZRANK energy function (Figure 1), suggesting that MLR approach yielded improvements over
ZRANK in predicting native-like binding poses. Closer examination of the decoy models, their
                                                   85

ZRANK scores and MLR-based prediction probabilities revealed interesting insights (Figure 2).
ZDOCK identified native-like structures for 29 out of the 37 structures indicating that
computational search algorithms to be very accurate. However, (1) ZRANK score varied
significantly even between structurally similar poses (Figure 2A); (2) very different structures
could receive approximately the same score making it difficult to discriminate accurate from
inaccurate solutions (Figure 2A); (3) worse, inaccurate solutions often received better score than
native-like structures (Figure 2A); (4) while MLR-based prediction probability also varied
between structurally similar poses, non-native poses rarely received high prediction probability
indicating that the likelihood of a false positive structure prediction was lower when the poses
are ranked according to prediction probability. Accordingly, prediction probability was seen to
correlate better with RMSD when compared to ZRANK score (Figures 2B & 2C).
 Example 2: Using physicochemical features for prediction of affinity-enhancing mutations
[00264]      Studies in this Example show the development of a scoring scheme for designing
affinity enhancing mutations for protein-protein (e.g., antigen-antibody) interactions.
[00265]      Specifically, this Example describes a mathematical model developed to quantify the
propensities of pairwise amino acid interactions (see Methods section). These statistical
propensities were formulated as an interaction matrix that assigns a weight to each possible pair
of amino acids. The fitness of a residue at a CDR position, also called the amino acid interface
fitness (AIF), was the combined propensity of all inter-protein pairwise contacts (defined as two
amino acids within a certain distance of each other) involving that residue. Substitutions that
lead to an improvement in AIF value without any structural consequences were considered as
candidates for affinity enhancement. The propensities were determined using statistics on amino
acid contacts in a database of known protein structures (see Methods section). Avoiding
multiple distance cutoffs and energy minimization steps eliminated heavy dependencies on
atomic coordinates.
[00266]      Consistent with the observations made by previous studies, the propensity data
showed the dominance of tyrosine, tryptophan, serine and phenylalanine over other residues in
the paratope (Table 2). The AIF metric was then used to predict affinity enhancing mutations of
antibodies across three different systems for which published data validated the predictions. One
of the test case was the anti-EGFR antibody drug cetuximab (Erbitux), where a 10-fold affinity
                                                   86

improvement to 52 pM was engineered by three mutations on the light chain. Two of these
predicted mutations, S26D and T3 1E were shown to improve binding affinity as single mutations
in cetuximab and closer inspection of the third mutation (N93A) revealed that Ala is among a set
of residues with weak contact propensities overall. Another test case was the anti-lysozyme
model antibody D44. 1, where eighteen mutations were predicted to be suitable for affinity
enhancement. Four of the predicted mutations on the heavy chain, T28D, T58D, E35S, G99D,
were part of a published high-affinity variant of D44. 1. Another test case was the antibody E2
that targets cancer-associated serine protease MT-SPl. AIF metric predicted eight mutations
which included T98R, confirming a previous in-silico affinity enhancement study, which had
identified a single mutation T98R for improving the antibody affinity by 14-fold to 340 pM.
            Example 3: Design of affinity enhancing mutations in Dengue antibody
[00267]      Analysis in this Example illustrates that an anti-DV antibody that binds only certain
serotypes of DV can be modified through engineering such that a variant is generated that
potently neutralizes activity of all four serotypes of DV. Specifically, studies in this Example
show that rationally designed mutations in a Dengue mAb 4E 11 augments its affinity for DV
serotype 4 (DV4), and do not significantly detrimentally affect its binding to DV serotypes 1-3
(DV 1-3).
[00268]      Binding and neutralizing activity profiles of mAb 4E1 1 show high affinity and
inhibitory potency to DV 1-3, but low affinity and neutralizing activity to DV4 (Figure 3). To
engineer 4E1 1 for potent neutralization activity to all four serotypes, the design approach (Figure
4) relied on three important factors: (1) to generate an accurate model of 4E1 1-EDIII interaction,
(2) to understand the serotype-specific structural elements and recapturing the determinants of
affinity and specificity, and (3) to design of substitutions which confer favorable interaction and
hence improved affinity with DV4.
[00269]         In the absence of the antibody crystal structure, a structural model of the Fv
region was built and the modeled Fv was docked against EDIII of DV1 using ZDOCK software,
and previously published functional data on the epitope and CDR H3 paratope (Watanabe et al.,
2012 Trends in Microbiology 20:11-20) were included as specific residues in the binding
interface to ensure docked poses did not deviate significantly from the native complex (see
Methods section). ZDOCK was run five times with different combinations of input interface
                                                   87

residues and the best ranking model from each run (Figure 5) was re-ranked using MLR
probabilities (Table 3). The top model predicted by the MLR approach did not match with the
prediction of the ZRANK method.
[00270]      The top model predicted by the MLR approach was validated by comparison
performed between paratope hot spots computationally predicted by the web server ANCHOR
[Dosztanyi et al., 2009 Bioinformatics 25:2745-2746] and hot spots determined experimentally
by Ala-scanning of each position in all CDR loops of 4E 11 with binding assessment by indirect
ED-III (DV1) ELISA. Hot spot prediction of the selected model correctly identified 61% of
experimentally determined hot spots, whereas the remaining poses had hot spot prediction
accuracies of <45% (range 28-44%), thus indicating that the selected pose was likely to reflect
the true 4E1 1/ED-III binding configuration.
[00271]      The top 4E1 1-ED-III (DV 1) model was used to guide the modeling of the interaction
between 4E 11 and a representative EDIII strain from each of the other three serotypes (see
Methods section). Using the four structural models, the mode of antibody binding to each of the
serotypes was examined and the molecular basis of poor affinity towards DV4 serotype was
identified using a combination of sequence and ED-III domain-level structural analysis.
Analysis revealed multiple amino acid differences within and around the 4E 11 binding interface
between DV4 and other serotypes. Notably, the orientation of the A-strand (residues 305-308)
relative to neighboring p-strands was different in DV4 owing to a localized difference at position
307 (Figure 6). Consistent with the low affinity and neutralizing potency to DV4, the 4E11
EDIII (DV4) interface possessed smaller BSA, fewer H-bonds and salt bridge contacts.
[00272]      AIF index was next applied to design mutations which enhance affinity to DV4
binding. This resulted in a set of 87 mutations spanning 23 CDR positions. The predicted
mutations included amino acids of all types. The choice of amino acid replacements were not
always intuitive (e.g., if the epitope region surrounding a paratope CDR position was negatively
charged, Arg and Lys were not always statistically favored at that CDR position). While
residues that improve energetics were favored, affinity gain might happen through improvements
in electrostatic complementarity, packing and hydrophobic surface area. A conscious effort was
taken in designing affinity-enhancing mutations at CDR positions proximal to DV4 serotype
specific residues (Figure 6). Mutations that had potential to improve DV4 affinity while not
being detrimental to other serotypes were given higher preference. In an effort to learn about the
                                                   88

effects of point mutations on binding affinity, mutants were not restricted to residues with the
highest probabilities of success.
           Example 4: Experimental characterization of engineered Dengue antibody
[00273]      Experiments in this Example elucidate that specific engineered site-directed
mutations in an antibody increase its affinity and/or potency for EDIII of DV4 without, or with
only minimal reduction in binding affinity and/or potency to EDIII of DV1-3. Experiments in
this Example also demonstrate that binding properties of engineered antibodies can also be
accurately quantified. Experiments in this study moreover show that an engineered Dengue
antibody designed by combining specific successful single-mutations results in maximum
increase in the affinity of the antibody. Furthermore, experiments in this Example confirm that
engineered antibodies designed in this study not only exhibit strong inhibitory activity to all four
serotypes of DV, but also have potent antiviral activity in vivo.
[00274]      A total of 87 mutations were selected for experimental testing by indirect ELISA
using purified recombinant EDIII of DV 1-4 as the coated antigen. Mutants were generated by
site-directed mutagenesis, sequence-confirmed, and expressed from 293 cells by transient
transfection. Ten mutations were identified with enhanced EDIII-DV4 affinity with no or
minimal reduction in binding to EDIII of DV1-3 (Table 3). These 10 mutations spanned five
CDR positions, with four in VL (R31, N57, E59, and S60) and one in VH (A55). Eight of the 10
mutations were in VL, with 7 being in L2 alone. The successful mutations were mostly charged
or polar in nature, and found to reside at the periphery of the antibody-antigen interface area
(Figure 7). Structural analysis showed the mutant side chains created contacts with highly
conserved epitope residues, suggesting why they were not detrimental to DV 1-3 binding (Figure
6 and Table 5).
[002751          For further accurate quantification of binding properties of these 10 single
mutants discussed above, competition ELISA experiments were performed to determine
affinities at equilibrium and in solution. Table 6 outlines affinity results from five single mutant
antibodies, representing those mutations which demonstrated greatest EDIII-DV4 affinity
enhancement while maintaining affinity to EDIII of DV1-3. The extent of DV4 affinity
enhancement ranged from 1.1-fold (VL-R31K) to 9.2-fold (VH-A55E). Surprisingly, two
                                                   89

mutations conferred increased affinity to other serotypes; VH-A55E resulted in a 16- and 7-fold
affinity increase to ED-III-DV2 and ED-III-DV3, respectively, while VL-N57E demonstrated a
3-fold affinity increase to ED-III-DV2. Only three of the 15 affinities measured to serotypes 1-3
(with the five single mutant antibodies) showed a decrease greater than 2-fold, and only one
antibody-EDIII affinity (VL-E59Q for EDIII-DV3) resulted in greater than a 3-fold decrease in
affinity.
[00276]          Structurally, the five affinity-enhancing positions map to spatially distinct regions
of the paratope (Figure 7) suggesting that additional enhancement could be achieved by
combining successful single mutations. Multiple three-, four- and five-mutant combinations
were tested, and a quintuple mutant antibody, termed 4E5A, showed the greatest increase in
affinity. Surprisingly, 4E5A was composed of five substitutions representing the amino acid
change at each position which conferred greatest affinity improvement to EDIII-DV4 as a single
mutant. Compared to the parental mAb, 4E5A displayed 450-fold affinity improvement to
EDIII-DV4 (KD     =  91 nM) while maintaining affinity to EDIII of DV1 and DV3 and a 15-fold
affinity increase to DV2 (Table 7 and Table 8). Significantly, these results illustrated that
affinity of an antibody could be increased from micromolar to near-nanomolar affinity. Surface
Plasmon Resonance (SPR) was used to verify affinity measurements as well as obtain kinetic
binding parameters (Table 9 and Figure 8). Affinity values from SPR were in good quantitative
agreement with those obtained by competition ELISA, with the exception that specific binding of
4E1 1 WT to EDIII-DV4 could not be detected, indicating a very low affinity, which was in
general agreement with competition ELISA results (KD        = 41 gM).
[002771          To determine whether increased affinity of 4E5A to EDIII-DV4 translated to
enhanced activity, a focus reduction neutralization test (FRNT) assay was used. Compared to
WT 4E 11, 4E5A showed a >75 fold increase in neutralizing potency towards DV4, and it
maintained potency to DV 1-3 (Figure 9). 4E5A showed strong inhibitory activity to all four
serotypes, with FRNT5o values of 0.19, 0.028, 0.77, and 4.0 pg/ml for DV1-4, respectively. To
further elucidate 4E5A activity, the antibody was assessed in an AG129 mouse model of DV2
challenge, which shows peak viremia at day 3 post-infection. At both 1 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg,
4E5A demonstrated a significant reduction in viremia, with 5 mg/kg treatment resulting in virus
titer levels below the limit of detection (Figure 10). Collectively, these results showed that the
                                                    90

engineered mAb 4E5A exhibited strong inhibitory activity to all four serotypes of DV and had
potent antiviral activity in vivo.
[00278]     Engineered antibodies that can be designed based on this study (e.g., 4E5A) represent
important drug candidates and additionally can be taken up for further rounds of affinity
maturation and humanization as is known in the art. The crystal structure of 4E1/ED-III
complex was published prior to submission of the present patent application, which allowed
comparison of the structural model discussed in this study with the published complex structure
and indeed, excellent correspondence between the two structures with C-alpha RMSD value of
1.4 angstrom was observed, further confirming the significance of this study.
Discussion
[00279]     Traditional approaches for discovering antibodies of therapeutic interest rely on
experimental methods such as phage-display techniques. However, these approaches are
expensive, technically challenging and time consuming. For instance, the influenza F16 mAb,
which neutralizes clade 1 & 2 viruses, was identified by screening 104,000 B cells. An alternate
strategy would be to modify the properties of an existing antibody via rational engineering.   In
this study, computational methods for ab initio modeling and antibody re-design were presented.
In test runs, the sensitivity of the MLR prediction method in picking X-ray structures (out of
several decoy models) appeared superior to ZRANK. Further, it was shown that the AIF metric
could capture known affinity enhancing mutations across multiple systems. This framework was
then applied to engineer broader specificity and affinity to an anti-Dengue neutralizing mAb.
The results obtained by this study were important as: (1) only few studies have attempted to
improve the cross-reactivity of an antibody; (2) this is the first study that has employed an
empirical approach towards antibody re-design and affinity enhancement; and (3) affinity
enhancing mutations were predicted without the crystal structure of the antibody-antigen
complex (aka blind prediction). This study showed for the first time that application of a
computational approach led to a greater than ~400-fold improvement in affinity of an antibody
(Table 10). Given the simplicity of these computational methods, they could be broadly
employed for antibody engineering, and unlike physics-based energetic approaches, they are not
affected by the precise location of the atom coordinates of the starting structure.
                                                  91

[00280]     The top docking solution from ZRANK was structurally very different from the
native-structure, indicating that any affinity enhancement efforts following the top ZRANK
model would not have led to fruitful results. Affinity enhancing mutations were also predicted
using the X-ray structure by energetics approach and results highlighted the challenges in
discriminating stabilizing and neutral mutations (Table 11). More significantly the affinity
enhancing mutations N57E, N57S and E59N were classified as destabilizing (Table 11). Since
ZRANK is widely used and has shown considerable success in the CAPRI experiments, the
method presented in this study would perform comparatively well when stacked against other
docking algorithms. The fact that ZEPII appeared significantly, indicated that amino acid
composition and inter-residue contacts contained discriminatory power. Interestingly, some
geometrical features also have the predictive power to discriminate native interfaces from
decoys. This correlated with the observation made by previous studies that antigen-antibody
interfaces were more planar and significantly well-ordered or packed. Between the different
combinations of interface residues that were used to generate the five different models, the
accurate model was produced by using all the known epitope and paratope interface residues as
adding more context narrowed the search space and therefore increased the chances of finding a
near-native complex structure.
[00281]     Phage display and directed evolution methods randomized select CDR loops,
especially VH-CDR loops since they accounted for most of the stabilizing contacts. The results
on 4E 11 showed that diversification strategies must use a rational approach and involve VL
loops for targeted diversification. The observation that affinity enhancing mutations were
mainly polar in nature and were present at the periphery of the binding interface was consistent
with known data. It is likely that these mutations increased the association rate by increasing the
efficiency of collision. The success rate in predicting mutations with targeted activities is 12%
(10/87). These results were encouraging given the complexity of the design problem (i.e.
involvement of multiple antigens) and considering that random mutations would have in average
a detrimental effect on binding affinity.
[00282]     Studies have shown that murine germline harbors gene segments with an inherent
capacity for high-affinity binding to EDIII domain (Ref 24, 32). Despite the beneficial effect of
the 5 mutations, these mutations have not co-evolved in vivo. Codon-level analysis showed that
amino acid replacements at N57E and S60W required at least two base changes highlighting the
                                                  92

limitations at the genomic level. Previous studies have shown that the epitopes recognized by
anti-DV antibodies fall into three different regions: (1) lateral-ridge epitope on ED-III (serotype
specific potent neutralizers); (2) A-strand of DIII (subcomplex-specific neutralizers); and (3)
other DII and DIII epitopes (complex-specific or flavivirus cross-reactive moderately potent
neutralizers). In this study, it was shown for the first time that antibody against A-strand epitope
could be engineered to bind all four serotypes with good in vitro potency. Collectively, 4E5A
exhibited an interesting broad spectrum neutralization profile and would be an antibody of
interest for potential therapeutic development for treatment of Dengue disease. mAb therapeutics
against DV in humans could face regulatory hurdles due to antibody-dependent enhancement.
However, recent studies have shown that modifications to the Fc region of recombinant anti-DV
antibodies prevent ADE in vivo, thus presenting opportunities for these newer complementary
approaches. The degree of conservation of mAb epitope can be a significant factor in
determining neutralizing spectrum and in vivo protection. Phylogenetic analysis of DV4 viruses
has revealed the existence of four distinct genotypes: I (Southeast Asia), II (Indonesia), III and
IV (Sylvatic or Malaysia). Within genotype II, viruses cluster into two distinct clades previously
defined as Ila and Ilb. Sequence analysis of 4E1 1-5A's epitope region revealed high degree of
conservation in genotypes Ila, Ilb and 4, while relatively lower conservation in genotype I,
suggesting to the present inventors that the engineered antibody would likely be effective against
the majority of DV4 viruses.
                                                  93

Table 1. Description of physicochemical features.
Feature                 Description of feature                  Feature sub-classification
  No.
                                             Chemical
                                                              (1) hydrophobic, (2) disulphide
    1        Number of various types of interactions      bridges, (3) hydrogen bond, (4) ionic
                                                           interactions, (5) aromatic-aromatic,
                                                            (6) aromatic-sulphur, (7) cation-pi
           density of each type of interactions (i.e. how     (1) hydrophobic, (2) disulphide
   2        many contacts of each type is observed on     bridges, (3) hydrogen bond, (4) ionic
             average per 100 square angstroms of the       interactions, (5) aromatic-aromatic,
                               interface)                   (6) aromatic-sulphur, (7) cation-pi
                                                          (1) main chain - main chain, (2) main
   3              classification of hydrogen-bonds          chain - side chain, (3) side chain
                                                                          side chain)
   4             number of salt bridge interactions
   5          number of hydrogen bonds that involve
                           charged residues
                                                             (1) polar, (2) neutral and (3) non
   6              composition of chemical groups                   polar chemical groups
                                                          Assesses the frequencies of favorable
   7                             ZEPII                           interactions to indicate the
                                                           probability of antibody binding to a
                                                           given surface (see Methods section)
                                              Physical
   7                      buried surface area
    8                          planarity
   9                   surface complementarity
   10              interface atom packing density
   1I         distance between the binding site of the
                   antigen from its center of mass
             novel metric that quantifies the antibody
   12     binding potential of a surface by enumerating
           the number of favorable interactions that are
              common to antigen-antibody interfaces
                                                94

Table 2. The 20X20 amino acid propensity matrix. Paratope amino acids are indicated on the
left side and epitope amino acids are indicated on the upper side. The propensity data was
generated using 77 non-redundant antigen-antibody complexes.
       AL   AR    AS      AS    CYS   GL     GL   GL     HI   IL  LE    LY      ME   PH   PR   SE   TH      TR   TY    VA
        A    G    N        P           U      N     Y     S    E   U     S        T   E    0    R    R       P    R    L
ALA    0.25 0.59 0.14    0.53     0   0.28    0.6 0.35     3  0.6  1.1  0.33     2.3 2.94 0.77 0.25 0.38    1.49 0.59   1
                                                          3    8
 AR    0.58 0.87 1.11    2.29     0   1.75   0.87 0.67   0.9  1.0 0.99  0.44    0.79 0.75 0.15 0.5  0.66    0.29 2.24 0.57
  G                                                       5    3
ASN    0.74 1.32 1.04    0.94   0.72  1.28   1.32 1.08   1.9  1.0 0.33  1.05    1.53 0.54 0.74 0.78 0.58    0.83 0.82 0.41
ASP    0.23 1.68 0.81     0.6     0   0.75   0.54 0.79   1.0  0.4 1.27  2.2     0.62 0.58 0.51 0.84 1.08    0.89 1.05 0.27
CYS    5.29   0    0     5.59   36.0    0      0  2.46    0    0    0    0        0  6.85 2.68  0     0       0    0  4.17
                                  2
GLU    0.22 1.41  0.6    0.23     0   0.36   0.39  0.2   0.5  0.3 0.14  0.85    0.39 0.56 0.44 0.75 0.55    0.85 0.17 0.34
                                                          2    9
GLN    0.44  0.2 0.72    0.23     0   0.48   0.26 0.61    0   0.7 0.82  0.38      0  0.57 0.44 0.65 0.44      0  1.02   0
GLY    0.31 1.01 0.57    0.49    1.06 1.37   0.99 0.72   0.6  0.5 0.39  0.9     0.76 0.94 0.89 0.51 0.84    0.61 0.97 0.74
                                                          8    6
 HIS   0.55 0.64 0.76    0.87     0   0.91   1.15 0.51   07   04  0.52  0.6       1    0  0.84 0.27 0.56      0  0.43 0.65
                      11      1            1           1  3    91            1111                                          1
 ILE   0.31 0.57 0.17    0.32     0   0.34   0.73 0.14   1.2  0.5 1.33  0.66    2.22 1.58 0.31 0.45 0.92      3  2.36  1.2
LEU    0.42 0.88  0.7    0.22   0.72  0.7    0.63 0.59   1.1  1.5 1.98  0.83    1.16 1.37 0.86 0.52 0.43    2.09 1.64   1
                                                          2    1
LYS      0  0.31 0.37    0.71     0   1.86    0.4 0.16   0.8   0  0.42  0.59      0  1.31 0.17 0.67 0.17    1.33   0  0.27
                                                          9
 ME      0  0.99 1.17      0      0   1.17   0.64  0.5   1.4  09    0    0      3.88   0  0.54  0     0      2.1 1.65 0.84
  T                                                            5
PHE    1.81 1.36 0.74
                      11
                         0.72
                              1
                                0.77  0.87
                                           1
                                             1.22 1.16
                                                       1
                                                         2.9
                                                          8  1
                                                              0.8 1.411 1.17
                                                                             111
                                                                                0.82 2.05 1.49 0.67 1.03
                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                            1.78 0.35  1.6
                                                                                                                           1
PRO    0.75 1.04 0.41     0.2     0   0.41   1.12 0.12         1   1.4  0.49    2.72 1.94 0.38 0.55 0.57    0.74 1.16   0
                                                          2
SER    1.12 1.27 0.62    0.93    1.37 1.64   1.54  0.6
                                                          6
                                                              04
                                                               3
                                                                  1.25  0.97    1.02 1.04 0.73 0.83 0.93    1.42 1.43 0.82
THR    0.84 1.17 0.79    1.14     0   1.06   1.15 0.34     4  05  0.37  0.83    1.31 0.16 0.79 0.77 1.03    0.24 0.56 0.76
TRP    1.27 1.71 1.16    1.05   3.37  0.47   2.03 0.99   2.6  0.5 1.06  1.78    1.03 0.73   1  1.12 0.86    0.56 1.86 1.56
TYR    1.48 2.21 1.83    1.56   2.04  1.96    1.6 1.73   2.0  1.9 2.38  1.78    1.89 2.69 1.88 1.35 1.21     1.4 1.36 1.46
VAL    0.3   1.1 0.49    0.78    1.01  1.3   0.88 0.28     5  07  1.11  0.26    0.54 1.15 0.3  0.59 0.45    2.92 0.69 0.47
                                                             95

Table 3. Physicochemical properties of the top five docked structural models. Columns 2-9
provide values of pre-computed significant features for the docked models. The p-value and odds
ratio (OR) are listed in the column headers. The MLR regression coefficient of the features is
listed in the last row of the table. Columns 10 and 11 provide MLR-based prediction probability
and ZRANK score, respectively.
                                                                  Main   Percenta  Percenta
                                  Ionic             Hydrogen
                                                    H roe         chain-     ge of    ge of
              ZEPII               Ioe     Cation-pi  n hond       chm        geo      gef
                                 contact    density  density       main   charged   neutral    MLR
              (OR =       BSA
            4.948081   (OR=0.5   density   (OR=1 4      e(O=0y4 chain      groups     polar  predictio ZRANK
   Pose       868;0p- 95234401  (OR=0.7    (OR=1.4  (OR=0.4     contacts (OR=4.8     groups       n      sre
            value=2E  ;p-value= 69203281  53682511  09261894    (OR=0.0  53984917  (OR=1.4   probabili   score
                                ;p-value= 0.000831) 0.000000 72352881     ;p-value 12696091      ty
                -16)  0.000994)
                                0.048709)              432)     ;p-value 0.000000   ;p-value
                                                               3.06E-11)     516)  0.03383)
     1       1.103220     2269    0.485      0.176    0.661         15         10    0.1071   0.00263  -75.833
                 3
    2        1.072727     1941    0.567      0.155    0.824         16         15    0.0982   0.00159  -85.636
                 3
          3  1.102876     2340    0.513      0.128    1.026         24         19    0.1389   0.00003  -66.759
                 711
    4        1.083606     2436    0.369      0.164    0.698         17         14    0.1186   0.00192   -71.73
                 6
          5 0.968289      2481    0.363      0.202    0.846         21         16    0.1587   0.00001  -72.775
                 5
 Regressi
coeffeien      1.599    -0.5188  -0.2624    0.3741   -0.8934     -2.6262    1.5798   0.3455
     t
                                                       96

Table 4. Mutations that led to increase in EDIII-DV4 affinity while maintaining original
EDIII-DV1-3 affinity.
     Chain            CDR              Position       WT residue           Mutation
      VH               H2                 55               Ala                Glu
      VH               H2                 55               Ala               Asp
      VL               Li                 31               Arg                Lys
      VL               L2                 57               Asn                Glu
      VL               L2                 57               Asn                Ser
      VL               L2                 59               Glu                Gln
      VL               L2                 59               Glu               Asn
      VL               L2                 60                Ser               Trp
      VL               L2                 60                Ser               Tyr
      VL               L2                 60                Ser              Arg
                                           97

Table 5. Contacts made by affinity enhancing mutations.
Chain & CDR       Position           WT residue        Mutation Predicted DV4
                                                                contacts
VH - H2           55                 Ala               Glu      H-bond, Ionic
                                                                contact with Lys
                                                                (310), Lys (323)
                                                      Asp       H-bond, Ionic
                                                                contact with Lys
                                                                (310), Lys (323)
VL - LI           31                 Arg               Lys      Ionic contact
                                                                with Glu (311)
VL - L2           57                 Asn               Glu      Ionic contact
                                                                with Lys (305)
                                                       Ser      H-bond with Lys
                                                                (310)
VL - L2           59                 Glu               Gln      H-bond with Glu
                                                                (327)
                                                      Asn       H-bond with Glu
                                                                (327)
VL - L2           60                 Ser               Trp      Hydrophobic
                                                                contact with Ala
                                                                (329)
                                                       Tyr      H-bond with Glu
                                                                (327)
                                                      Arg       Ionic, H-bond
                                                                with Glu (327)
                                                                and H-bond with
                                                                Gly (328)
                                           98

Table 6. Affinities of single mutant antibodies with increased EDIII-DV4 affinity and
similar EDIII-DV1-3 affinities relative to 4E11 WT. Mutations included are those which, for
each identified position, demonstrated greatest EDIII-DV4 affinity while approximately
maintaining EDIII-DV1-3 affinity. KD values represent the average of at least two independent
experiments.
    4E11 WT             -0.328                              5.20         21.8        40,793
      A55E             H2             0.295                0.323         2.95         4442
      R31K             LI             0.378                 5.35         21.1        37,292
      N57E             L2             0.281                 1.75         33.9         8408
      E59Q             L2             0.772                 10.8         102         11,034
     S60W              L2             0.284                 6.30         23.1        26,351
                                         Affinity relative to WT
                             0.1                     1                 10+
Table 7. Affinity of combination mutant 4E11-5A.
                            EDIII-DV1           EDIII-DV2          EDIII-DV3       EDIII-DV4
   Method        mAb        KD    Fold-        K          Fold-    KD     Fold-   K         Fold
                          (nM)   change       (nM)       change  (nM)    change  (nM)     change
                 4E11     0.328      -        5.20           -   21.8        -  40,793
Competition      WT
   ELISA        4E11-     0.309     1.1      0.246         21.1   16.5      1.3  91.2       447.3
                  5A
                 4E11      0.50      -        6.20           -   7.58        -    NB
                 WT
     SPR
                4E11
                           1.78    0.28       0.70          8.9  5.19       1.5   114
                  5A
                                                   99

Table 8. Energetic calculations of 4E5A showing mutations have additive effect on binding
energy.
                  Antibody         EDIII-DV4 AG (kcal/mol)a          EDIII-DV4 AAG (kcal/mol)
                  4E11 WT                        -5.98                               --
                  VH-A55E                        -7.29                             -1.31
                  VL-R31K                        -6.03                             -0.05
                  VL-N57E                        -6.92                             -0.93
                  VL-E59Q                        -6.76                             -0.77
                  VL-S60W                        -6.24                             -0.26
                     4E5A                        -9.59                             -3.61
aFree energy calculated by AG = RTln(KD) at 25"C
bAAG      AGmutant - AGwT
Table 9. Kinetic binding parameters for 4E11 and 4E5A measured by SPR.
                                     EDIII-DV1 EDIII-DV2 EDIII-DV3 EDIII-DV4
                                            k      h      a      b     a      bh
                                      kona    koff    kon   koff   kon   koff     kona   koffh
                           4E11       1.11    5.51    1.98  123    1.34  102     N.B.c N.B.C
                           4E5A 1.17          20.8   2.01   14.1   2.76  143     0.766   875
ak    values are expressed as (X10l M-is-1)
bkoff values are expressed as (X10 4
                                     S-)
cN.B., no binding
                                                            100

Table 10. Comparison of results of various in silico antibody affinity enhancement studies.
                                                          Crystal     Single     Affinity
     Study        Method    Antibody       Antigen       structure    /multi  .
                                                             ?       antigen  improvement
  Our study      Empirical      4E11       Dengue           No         Multi       ~450
                informatics                  gpE
 Lippow SM
et. al., Nature  Energetics    D44.1      lysozyme          Yes       Single       140
    (2007)
 Marvin J.S.
                 Energetics    Y0101        VEGF            Yes       Single         ~6
Bioche story
    (2003)
   Clark LA
et.al., Protein  Energetics    AQC2         VLA1            Yes       Single        ~10
    Science
    (2006)
 Farady et al.
    (2009)       Energetics      E2        Protease         Yes       Single        14
Bioorg. Med.                               MT-SP1
 Chem. Lett.
                                            101

Table 11. Antibody mutations predicted using energetics approach. Mutations that increased
the affinity of 4E 1 are shaded.
Mutati  Mutati  Effect   Mutati  Mutati  Effect    Mutati     Mutati   Effect   Mutati  Mutati  Effect    Mutati  Mutati  Effect of
 onat      on      of    onat       on      of     onat           on      of    onat       on       of        at      on          .
ALA5     Energ  Mutati   ARG3     Energ  Mutati    ASN5        Energ  Mutati    GLU5     Energ  Mutati     on     Energ   Mutatio
   5        y      on      1         y      on       7            y       on       9        y       on    SER6O        y       n
       VH:ALA55                 VL:ARG31                   VL:ASN57                    VL:GLU59                  VL:SER60
                stabiliz                 stabilize                    stabilize                 stabiliz                  stabilizing
 GLm        -        g    LYS     -1.01                         -1.79            PHE     -1.02      mgLEU SER
                                                                                                   in              -2.21       g
         -0.44  neutral   HIS     -0.13  neutral    PHE         -1.69 stabiliz   TYR       -1   stabilize  PHE      -2.17 stabilizing
 THR
                                                                         ing                       ing                         g
                                                                      stabilize          -08    atabiliz             16    taiai
  TRP     -0.4  neutral  MET      -0.04  neutral   TYR          -1.44      ili  GLN      -0.86       i     ARG     -1.69  stabilizn
                neutral   PRO     -0.04  neutral   ARG          -0.88 st.iz     ARG       -0.5  neutral    LYS      -1.69 stabilizin
 ASP     -0.37
                                                                         ing                                                   9___
         -0.33  neutral  ARG         0   neutral    TRP         -0.64 stabilize  LYS     -0.35  neutral    GLN     -1.65  stabilizin
 GLN
                                   I                                      mig                                                  g
                neutral   ILE      0.16  neutral   GLN          -0.62 stabilize  ASP     -0.29  neutral    LEU      -1.44 stabilizin
 LEU     -0.33
                                                                          mng                                                  g
                                                                      stabiliz  MET      -0.24  neutral    TRP      -1.31 stabilizing
 TYR     -0.29  neutral   THR      0.22  neutral   MET          -0.57    .n                                               stabTizg
                                                                          mng                   ___                            g___
                                                                      stabiliz    -s     -. 3   nurl       MT       -. 6  saiii
 ARG     -0.23  neutral  VAL       0.22  neutral    HIS         -0.51 siz        HIS     -0.23  neutral    MET      -1.26 stabiizin
                neutral   ASN      0.24  neutral    LYS         -0.04 neutral    LEU      -0.1  neutral     HIS      -0.8 stabilizin
 PRO     -0.23
                                                                                                                               g
         -0.17  neutral  ALA        0.3  neutral   ASN            0   neutral    ILE     -0.01  neutral    ASN      -0.79 stabilizin
  ILE
                                                                                                                               g
                neutral   CYS      0.32  neutral    ILE         0.53  destabi   GLU         0   neutral    CYS      -0.64 stabilizin
 MET     -0.17
                                                       _____lizing                              ___               ___          9___
                                                                      destabi     R         .5  nuta         H       05   stabilizin
 VAL     -0.14  neutral   SER      0.34  neutral    ASP         0.58             PRO      0.05  neutral    THR      -0.57
                neutral  GLY       0.41  neutral    PRO         0.68  destabi   VAL       0.06  neutral    ALA      -0.56 stabilizin
 PHE     -0.09
                                                       _____lizing                              ___               ___          9___
 CYS     -0.04  neutral   TYR      0.46  neutral   THR          0.93  destabi   THR       0.17  neutral    ASP      -0.45  neutral
                                                                       lizing
 ALA        0   neutral   PHE      0.47  neutral    CYS          1.14 destabi    SER      0.34  neutral    GLU      -0.42  neutral
                                                                       lizingl
  HIS     0.06  neutral  GLN       0.48  neutral   GLU           1.17            CYS      0.39  neutral    GLY      -0.05   neutral
 GLY      0.07  neutral   LEU      0.48  neutral   ALA           1.32 destabi   ALA       0.51  destabi    TYR         0   neutral
                                                                       lizing                    lizing
 ASN      0.13  neutral   TRP      0.68  destabi    SER          1.53 destai    GLY       0.52  destabi     ILE      0.43  neutral
                                          lizing                       lizing                    lizing
  SER     0.17  neutral   ASP      1.14  destabi   VAL           1.88 destabi   ASN       0.68  destabi    VAL       0.61  destabili
                                          lizing                       lizing                     izing                      zmg
          1.06  destabi  GLU       1.26  destabi   GLY           1.95 destabi    TRP      2.53  destabi    PRO       3.31  destabili
 LYS
                 lizing                   lizing                       lizing                    lizing                      zing
                                                                 102

Methods
A mathematicalmodelfor estimating contactpropensitiesof amino acids in the antigen-antibody
interface
[00283]     Briefly, in an antigen-antibody interface, a pair of residues presumably interact if they
had favorable energetics of interaction or by chance occurrence. The propensity of amino acid
interaction was calculated by computing the number of interactions expected by chance i.e. the
expected frequency, and dividing the observed frequency by this number.
[00284]     If two amino acids, one from each side of the antigen-antibody interface, were within
4.5 A (i.e. shortest non-H atom distance is less than 4.5 A) from each other, they were defined as
pairresidues. If the total number of pairwise interactions between residues x (antigen) and y
(antibody) at the interface was N (x, y), then their concurrence frequency, F (x, y), was
defined as follows:
                                                     N (x,y)
                                  F (x,y) =
                                               EzfilM=1      N (1, m)
The denominator of the above equation indicates the summation of pairwise interactions of all
residue pairs in the interface.
[00285]     The frequency of occurrence of every amino acid at paratope and epitope must be
calculated. The frequency of a particular amino acid x in the epitope,FePitoPe(x), was defined as
follows:
                                                           N (x)
                                      Fepitope(X) _         N()
                                                       E201= N(1)
In the above equation N(x) denotes the count of amino acid x in the epitope. The denominator
represents the total number of all amino acids in the epitopes.
[00286]      Similarly, the frequency of occurrence of amino acid y in the paratope, FParatope(y)
was defined as follows:
                                                     _      N (y)
                                     Fparatope
                                                        E2 1   N(1)
                                                 103

In the above equation, N(y) denotes the number of amino acid y in the paratope. The
denominator indicates the total number of all amino acids in the paratopes.
[00287]      Parameters F (x, y), Fepitope (x) and Fparatope(y) were determined using all the
seventy-seven benchmarked antigen-antibody structures in the data set. Consistent with
observations made by previous studies, tyrosine, serine, glycine and asparagine were the most
abundant paratope residues whereas lysine, arginine, leucine and glycine were the most abundant
epitope residues (Figure 11). If the occurrences of amino acids x and y were independent,
EFepitope-paratope(x, y) defined in the below equation was an expected frequency rate that
amino acids x and y appear concurrently.
                                EF(x, y) = Fepitope(x)Fparatope(y)
[00288]      If the concurrence rate of the amino acids x and y at the interface for the antigen was
more than the expected rate, the following ratio RAa (x, y) becomes greater than 1.
                                                      F (x~y)
                                        RA (x,y) =
                                                      EF(x, y)
[00289]      RA, (x, y)was a 20X20 matrix. Exemplary applications of RA, (x, y) are suggested
below.
[00290]      Using RA (x, y) to determine the AIF of a CDR residue. The AIF of a CDR residue
in the interface was defined as the sum of the RA    (x, y) with its neighbors. Neighbors were
defined by a distance criterion (4.5 A).
[00291]       Determine the optimal choice of amino acid at an interface position (paratope re
engineering). Given an antigen-antibody complex, amino acid preferences at a CDR position
were computed using the contact potential score. Specifically, at a given CDR position, the wild
type (WT) residue was systematically substituted by the remaining amino acids excluding
glycine and proline (to avoid backbone conformation alterations) and the probability of
replacement was evaluated at each instance using the AIF metric. Single mutations with
replacement potential higher than wild type residue were reevaluated computationally to find
mutations that - (a) do not bury polar groups, and (b) do not cause steric hindrance.
[00292]      Using RA (x, y) to quantify the strength of interaction of antigen-antibody interface
(the Epitope-Paratope Interface Index). The interaction between an antigen and antibody results
                                                 104

from the formation of numerous non-covalent bonds. Therefore, the interaction affinity was
directly related to summation of the attractive and repulsive forces (van der Waals interactions,
hydrogen bonds, salt bridges and hydrophobic force). Herein, the strength of interaction of an
antibody-antigen interface was investigated quantitatively by a linear combination of RAs for all
combinations of amino acid pairs. An index expressing the strength of an antigen-antibody
interface 'i' (called Epitope-Paratope Interface Index (EPII)) was defined by:
                              EPIl          2=1 Y    1F' (x,y)RA (x,y)
                                                   1=  Y 1FP (x, y)
In the equation above F (x, y) denotes the concurrence frequency of amino acids x (x belongs to
secondary structural groups) and y at interface i.
[00293]      Using EPIIto discriminate a true antigen-antibody interaction from docking decoys.
In order to distinguish an interface with the most potential from other decoy interfaces generated
by computational docking, the EPIIvalues should be normalized by all the interfaces in the
protein. Z-scored EPIIwere used for this purpose. If M interfaces were found in a protein, the
Z-scored EPIIfor interface i was calculated as follows:
                                         ZEPIIi -   EPII;
          where
                                                EN1 EPII
                                                      M
                                      E41(EPI       -    ) * (EPIIg - t)
                               a  =M
The ZEPII, score was an indicator of the probability of antibody binding to a given interface.
Interface with the highest ZEPIIiscore (or with ZEPIIabove the consensus value established for
antigen-antibody interaction (discussed above)) in a protein was the most probable site for
antibody binding.
                                                  105

Data set of non-redundantantigen-antibody structuralcomplexes and computationaldocking to
generate decoy models
[00294]     A total of 568 antigen-antibody complexes from the Protein Data Bank were
analyzed. In order to ensure proper enumeration of geometric interface features (planarity,
buried surface area etc.), structures wherein the antigen length was less than 20 amino acids were
excluded. Additionally, many structures contained same or similar antigen, which could bias the
studies, giving higher weight for factors derived from multiply-represented protein antigen. To
remove redundant structures from the data set, structures that have homologous antigen (defined
by BLASTENREF_40 P-value 10e27) and share 50% epitope residues were classified under the
same group and the structure with the highest resolution was selected as the representative. This
led to seventy-seven non-redundant antigen-antibody complex structures.
[00295]     ZDOCK was used to generate decoy computational models of antigen-antibody
interaction. The protocol for generating the decoys models were the same for all the seventy
seven structural complexes. Only the variable domain of the antibody was used for docking.
The larger of the two molecules was considered the receptor while the smaller molecule was
considered the ligand. The ligand orientation was rotated 6 degrees at each step to sample the
various conformations. Since, the initial docking procedure explores a relative large area,
distance constraints between putative hotspot residues on epitope and paratope were set up to
ensure the generated models did not shift significantly from the native pose. Two hotspot
residues were selected on either side to ensure the challenges faced with structure prediction was
equivalent to the 4E1 1 scenario. In all the decoys models, the putative epitope and paratope
hotspots were within 10 angstroms from each other. Hotspots were identified using the web
server, ANCHOR. The initial docking procedure generated 2,000 poses which were then
clustered based on an all-versus-all RMSD matrix, described previously. The RMSD between
two docked poses was calculated based on the ligand residues within 7 angstroms of the binding
interface. Docked protein poses representing the cluster centers were considered as decoy
models. ZDOCK uses shape complementarity along with desolvation and electrostatic energy
terms ('ZRANK') to rank the docked poses. Each of these decoys was further refined using
CHARMm minimization.
                                                 106

[00296]     The X-ray structures were combined with the decoy models for evaluating the
sensitivity of the prediction methods.
Homology modeling of 4E11 Fv
[00297]     Structural model of 4E 11 Fv was built using SIWW-MODEL homology modeling
server. Studies indicated that the overall accuracy of modeling the hypervariable CDR was
appropriate when (1) the degree of sequence similarity between the target and the template was
high, (2) main-chain conformations of the CDR loops LI, L2, L3, HI, H2 follow the "canonical
structure"and (3) heavy chain CDR3 (H3) was not unusually long.
Computationaldocking for generating4E11-EDIII (DV 1-4) poses
[00298]     The modeled Fv was docked against EDIII of a select DVI strain using ZDOCK.
DVI antigen was used because mAb 4E I1 was originally isolated from a mouse infected with a
DVi virus. The structure of the DVi antigen was modeled using SWISS MODEL homology
modeling server keeping the solved crystal structure of DVI EDIII (PDB: 3IRC) as the template.
ZDOCK uses shape complementarity along with desolvation and electrostatic energy terms
('ZRANK') to rank the docked poses. In order to ensure the docked poses do not deviate
significantly from the native complex, mapped epitope and paratope residues found in the
literature were forced to be included in the binding interface. Residues included in the interface
were 307K, 389L and 391W (epitope; DVi numbering as in 3IRC) and 101W, 102E (paratope;
numbering based on sequence position).
[00299]     The structures of 4E1 I in complex with DV 2, 3, 4 (EDIII) were modeled using
4E I1-DVI EDIII structural model as the template.
                                       Equivalents and Scope
[00300]     Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention,
described herein. The scope of the present invention is not intended to be limited to the above
Description, but rather is as set forth in the appended claims.
                                                  107

[00301]     In the claims articles such as "a," "an," and "the" may mean one or more than one
unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. Claims or descriptions
that include "or" between one or more members of a group are considered satisfied if one, more
than one, or all of the group members are present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a
given product or process unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context.
The invention includes embodiments in which exactly one member of the group is present in,
employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. The invention includes
embodiments in which more than one, or all of the group members are present in, employed in,
or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the
invention encompasses all variations, combinations, and permutations in which one or more
limitations, elements, clauses, descriptive terms, etc., from one or more of the listed claims is
introduced into another claim. For example, any claim that is dependent on another claim can be
modified to include one or more limitations found in any other claim that is dependent on the
same base claim. Furthermore, where the claims recite a composition, it is to be understood that
methods of using the composition for any of the purposes disclosed herein are included, and
methods of making the composition according to any of the methods of making disclosed herein
or other methods known in the art are included, unless otherwise indicated or unless it would be
evident to one of ordinary skill in the art that a contradiction or inconsistency would arise.
[00302]     Where elements are presented as lists, e.g., in Markush group format, it is to be
understood that each subgroup of the elements is also disclosed, and any element(s) can be
removed from the group. It should it be understood that, in general, where the invention, or
aspects of the invention, is/are referred to as comprising particular elements, features, etc.,
certain embodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention consist, or consist essentially of,
such elements, features, etc. For purposes of simplicity those embodiments have not been
specifically set forth in haec verba herein. It is noted that the term "comprising" is intended to
be open and permits the inclusion of additional elements or steps.
[00303]     Where ranges are given, endpoints are included. Furthermore, it is to be understood
that unless otherwise indicated or otherwise evident from the context and understanding of one
of ordinary skill in the art, values that are expressed as ranges can assume any specific value or
subrange within the stated ranges in different embodiments of the invention, to the tenth of the
unit of the lower limit of the range, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
                                                   108

[00304]     In addition, it is to be understood that any particular embodiment of the present
invention that falls within the prior art may be explicitly excluded from any one or more of the
claims. Since such embodiments are deemed to be known to one of ordinary skill in the art, they
may be excluded even if the exclusion is not set forth explicitly herein.
[00305]     The publications discussed above and throughout the text are provided solely for their
disclosure prior to the filing date of the present application. Nothing herein is to be construed as
an admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior
disclosure.
[00306]     Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than
routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention
described herein. The scope of the present invention is not intended to be limited to the above
Description, but rather is as set forth in the following claims:
                                                   109

                                              Claims
What is claimed is:
1.       An antibody agent specific to Dengue virus, wherein the antibody agent binds to and
neutralizes each of Dengue Virus serotypes D1, D2, D3, and D4.
2.       The antibody agent according to claim 1, wherein the antibody agent binds to an epitope
that is or comprises an amino acid sequence within: SEQ ID NO. 17 (EDIII-DV1), SEQ ID NO.
18 (EDIII-DV2), SEQ ID NO. 19 (EDIII-DV3), SEQ ID NO. 20 (EDIII-DV4), or combinations
thereof.
3.       The antibody agent according to claim 1, wherein the agent binds to an epitope in the A
strand region of envelope glycoprotein of Dengue virus.
4.       The antibody agent according to claim 2, wherein the epitope comprises one or more
residues corresponding to that at a position selected from the group consisting of: 305, 306, 307,
308, 309, 310, 311, 312, 323, 325, 327, 329, 360, 361, 362, 363, 364, 385, 387, 388, 389, 390,
391, and combinations thereof, of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
5.       The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises one or more
residues corresponding to that at a position selected from the group consisting of: 305, 310, 311,
323, 327, 329, and combinations thereof, of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
6.       The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises a residue
corresponding to that at position 305 of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
7.       The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises a residue
corresponding to that at position 310 of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
8.       The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises a residue
corresponding to that at position 311 of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
                                                 110

9.       The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises a residue
corresponding to that at position 323 of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
10.      The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises a residue
corresponding to that at position 327 of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
11.      The antibody agent according to claim 4, wherein the epitope comprises a residue
corresponding to that at position 329 of any one of SEQ ID NOs. 17-20.
12.      The antibody agent according to claim 6, wherein the corresponding residue is selected
from the group consisting of: serine, lysine, and threonine.
13.      The antibody agent according to claim 7, wherein the corresponding residue is lysine.
14.      The antibody agent according to claim 8, wherein the corresponding residue is lysine.
15.      The antibody agent according to claim 9, wherein the corresponding residue is selected
from the group consisting of: arginine, lysine, and glutamine.
16.      The antibody agent according to claim 10, wherein the corresponding residue is selected
from the group consisting of: lysine and glutamate.
17.      The antibody agent according to claim 11, wherein the corresponding residue is selected
from the group consisting of: arginine, aspartate, glutamate, and threonine.
18.      The antibody agent according to claim 1, whose heavy chain variable region and/or light
chain variable region includes at least one complementarity determining region (CDR) sharing at
least 80% sequence identity with a reference CDR of antibody 4E1 1, but differs by substitution
of at least one amino residue within the CDR, so that the antibody agent potently neutralizes all
four DV serotypes.
                                                 111

19.     The antibody agent according to claim 18, which antibody agent includes at least one
CDR that is substantially identical to a reference CDR of antibody 4E 11 in that it is either
identical to such reference CDR or includes between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids within such
reference CDR.
20.     The antibody agent according to claim 19, wherein the reference CDR is selected from
the group consisting of:
        one found between residues 27 and 33 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1);
        one found between residues 53 and 58 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1);
        one found between residues 100 and 106 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1);
        one found between residues 24 and 38 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2);
        one found between residues 54 and 60 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2);
        one found between residues 93 and 101 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2); and
        combinations thereof.
21.     The antibody agent according to claim 19, which antibody agent includes at least one
CDR that is substantially identical to a reference CDR set forth below, in that it is either identical
to such reference CDR or includes between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids within such
reference CDR:
        reference CDRs: GFNIKDT (SEQ ID NO. 7), DPANGD (SEQ ID NO. 8), GWEGFAY
(SEQ ID NO. 9), RASENVDRYGNSFMH (SEQ ID NO. 14), RASNLES (SEQ ID NO. 15),
and/or QRSNEVPWT (SEQ ID NO. 16).
22.     The antibody agent according to claim 19, wherein the reference CDR is a heavy chain
CDR.
23.     The antibody agent according to claim 19, wherein the reference CDR is a light chain
CDR.
                                                 112

24.      The antibody agent according to claim 19, wherein the antibody agent includes at least
one heavy chain CDR that is substantially identical to a heavy chain reference CDR and also
includes at least one light chain CDR that is identical to a light chain reference CDR.
25.      The antibody agent according to claim 19, wherein each of the CDRs in the antibody
agent is substantially identical to one of the reference CDRs.
26.      The antibody agent according to claim 1, whose heavy chain variable region and/or light
chain variable region includes at least one complementarity determining region (CDR) sharing at
least 95% sequence identity with a reference CDR of antibody 4E1 1, but differs by substitution
of at least one amino acid residue within the CDR, so that the antibody agent potently neutralizes
all four DV serotypes.
27.      The antibody agent according to claim 26, which antibody agent includes at least one
CDR that is substantially identical to a reference CDR of antibody 4E 11 in that it is either
identical to such reference CDR or includes between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids within such
reference CDR.
28.      The antibody agent according to claim 27, wherein the reference CDR is selected from
the group consisting of:
         one found between residues 27 and 33 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1);
         one found between residues 53 and 58 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1);
         one found between residues 100 and 106 of the 4E1 1 heavy chain (SEQ ID NO. 1);
         one found between residues 24 and 38 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2);
         one found between residues 54 and 60 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2);
         one found between residues 93 and 101 of the 4E1 1 light chain (SEQ ID NO. 2); and
         combinations thereof.
29.      The antibody agent according to claim 27, which antibody agent includes at least one
CDR that is substantially identical to a reference CDR set forth below, in that it is either identical
                                                  113

to such reference CDR or includes between 1-5 substitutions of amino acids within such
reference CDR:
        reference CDRs: GFNIKDT (SEQ ID NO. 7), DPANGD (SEQ ID NO. 8), GWEGFAY
(SEQ ID NO. 9), RASENVDRYGNSFMH (SEQ ID NO. 14), RASNLES (SEQ ID NO. 15),
and/or QRSNEVPWT (SEQ ID NO. 16).
30.     The antibody agent according to claim 27, wherein the reference CDR is a heavy chain
CDR.
31.     The antibody agent according to claim 27, wherein the reference CDR is a light chain
CDR.
32.     The antibody agent according to claim 27, wherein the antibody agent includes at least
one heavy chain CDR that is substantially identical to a heavy chain reference CDR and also
includes at least one light chain CDR that is identical to a light chain reference CDR.
33.     The antibody agent according to claim 27, wherein each of the CDRs in the antibody
agent is substantially identical to one of the reference CDRs.
34.     The antibody agent according to any one of claims 18 or 26, wherein the heavy chain
variable region CDR has substitution of the amino acid residue at position 55.
35.      The antibody agent according to claim 34, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 55 is selected from the group consisting of: glutamate and aspartate.
36.     The antibody agent according to claim 34, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 55 is glutamate.
37.     The antibody agent according to any one of claims 18 or 26, wherein the light chain
variable region CDR has substitution of the amino acid residue at positions selected from the
group consisting of: 31, 57, 59, 60, and combinations thereof.
                                                  114

38.     The antibody agent according to claim 37, wherein the light chain variable region CDR
has substitution of the amino acid residue at position 31.
39.     The antibody agent according to claim 38, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 31 is lysine.
40.     The antibody agent according to claim 37, wherein the light chain variable region CDR
has substitution of the amino acid residue at position 57.
41.     The antibody agent according to claim 40, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 57 is selected from the group consisting of: glutamate and serine.
42.     The antibody agent according to claim 40, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 57 is glutamate.
43.     The antibody agent according to claim 37, wherein the light chain variable region CDR
has substitution of the amino acid residue at position 59.
44.     The antibody agent according to claim 43, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 59 is selected from the group consisting of: glutamine and asparagine.
45.     The antibody agent according to claim 43, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 59 is glutamine.
46.     The antibody agent according to claim 37, wherein the light chain variable region CDR
has substitution of the amino acid residue at position 60.
47.     The antibody agent according to claim 46, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 60 is selected from the group consisting of: tryptophan, tyrosine, and arginine.
                                                115

48.     The antibody agent according to claim 46, wherein the substitute amino acid residue at
position 60 is tryptophan.
49.     The antibody agent according to claim 1, which is an IgG.
50.     The antibody agent according to claim 1, which is a monoclonal antibody.
51.     The antibody agent according to claim 1, wherein the antibody agent is selected from the
group consisting of: a mouse antibody, humanized antibody, a human antibody, a purified
antibody, an isolated antibody, a chimeric antibody, a polyclonal antibody, and combinations
thereof.
52.     The antibody agent according to claim 1, wherein the antibody agent is selected from the
group consisting of: a Fab fragment, a Fab' fragment, a F(ab') 2 fragment, a Fd fragment, a Fd'
fragment, a Fv fragment, a dAb fragment, a scFv fragment, an isolated CDR region, a dsFv
diabody, a single chain antibody, and combinations thereof.
53.     A cell line expressing an antibody agent according to claim 1.
54.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising:
        one or more antibody agents according to claim 1; and
        a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
55.     The pharmaceutical composition of claim 54, further comprising at least one additional
antiviral agent.
56.     A method of treating a subject in need thereof, comprising administering an antibody
agent according to claim 1.
                                                116

57.     A kit comprising:
        at least one antibody agent according to claim 1;
a syringe, needle, or applicator for administration of the at least one antibody or fragment to a
subject; and instructions for use.
58.     A method of manufacturing a pharmaceutical composition, the method comprising steps
of:
        providing an antibody agent according to claim 1; and
        formulating the antibody agent with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
excipient,
so that a pharmaceutical composition is generated.
59.     The method of claim 58, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is a liquid composition.
60.     The method of claim 58, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is formulated for
parenteral administration.
61.     The method of claim 60, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is formulated for
intravenous administration.
62.     The method of claim 61, wherein the pharmaceutical composition is formulated for
intravenous administration to a child.
63.     An antibody agent whose heavy chain is or comprises an amino acid sequence within
SEQ ID NO.: 21 and whose light chain is or comprises an amino acid sequence within SEQ ID
NO.: 22.
                                                 117

64.     An antibody agent with at least one CDR that has a sequence selected from the group
consisting of: SEQ ID NO.: 23, SEQ ID NO.: 24, SEQ ID NO.: 25, SEQ ID NO.: 26, SEQ ID
NO.: 27, SEQ ID NO.: 28.
                                              118

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
                      Sasisekharan, Ram
                      Robinson, Luke N
                      Tharakaraman, Kannan
              <120>   ANTI-DENGUE VIRUS ANTIBODIES AND USES THEREOF
              <130>   0492612-0952
              <150>   US 61/780,209
              <151>   2013-03-13
<removed-apn>
              <150>   US 61/680,385
              <151>   2012-08-07
              <160>   28
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   117
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC
              <400>   1
              Glu Val Lys Leu Leu Glu Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Leu Val Lys Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Ser Val Arg Leu Ser Cys Thr Ala Ser Gly Phe Asn Ile Lys Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Tyr Met Ser Trp Val Lys Gln Arg Pro Glu Gln Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Arg Ile Asp Pro Ala Asn Gly Asp Thr Lys Tyr Asp Pro Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gln Gly Lys Ala Thr Ile Thr Ala Asp Thr Ser Ser Asn Thr Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Leu His Leu Ser Ser Leu Thr Ser Gly Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ser Arg Gly Trp Glu Gly Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ala
                      115

<removed-date>
              <210>   2
              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC
              <400>   2
              Glu Leu Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Ala Ser Leu Ala Val Ser Leu Gly
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Arg Ala Thr Ile Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Glu Asn Val Asp Arg Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Asn Ser Phe Met His Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Ala Gly Gln Pro Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Arg Ala Ser Asn Leu Glu Ser Gly Ile Pro Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Arg Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Val Glu Ala Asp Asp Val Ala Thr Tyr Phe Cys Gln Arg Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   3
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC FR1
              <400>   3
              Glu Val Lys Leu Leu Glu Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Leu Val Lys Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Ser Val Arg Leu Ser Cys Thr Ala Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   4
              <211>   19
              <212>   PRT

              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC FR2
              <400>   4
              Tyr Met Ser Trp Val Lys Gln Arg Pro Glu Gln Gly Leu Glu Trp Ile
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gly Arg Ile
<removed-apn>
              <210>   5
              <211>   41
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC FR3
              <400>   5
              Thr Lys Tyr Asp Pro Lys Phe Gln Gly Lys Ala Thr Ile Thr Ala Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Ser Ser Asn Thr Ala Tyr Leu His Leu Ser Ser Leu Thr Ser Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr Cys Ser Arg
                      35                  40
              <210>   6
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC FR4
              <400>   6
              Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu Val Thr Val Ser Ala
              1               5                   10
              <210>   7
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC CDR1
              <400>   7

              Gly Phe Asn Ile Lys Asp Thr
              1               5
<removed-date>
              <210>   8
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC CDR2
              <400>   8
<removed-apn>
              Asp Pro Ala Asn Gly Asp
              1               5
              <210>   9
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 HC CDR3
              <400>   9
              Gly Trp Glu Gly Phe Ala Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   10
              <211>   23
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC FR1
              <400>   10
              Glu Leu Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Ala Ser Leu Ala Val Ser Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Arg Ala Thr Ile Ser Cys
                          20
              <210>   11
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC FR2
              <400>   11
              Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Ala Gly Gln Pro Pro Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr

              1               5                  10                  15
<removed-date>
              <210>   12
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC FR3
              <400>   12
<removed-apn>
              Gly Ile Pro Ala Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Arg Thr Asp Phe Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Leu Thr Ile Asn Pro Val Glu Ala Asp Asp Val Ala Thr Tyr Phe Cys
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   13
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC FR4
              <400>   13
              Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   14
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC CDR1
              <400>   14
              Arg Ala Ser Glu Asn Val Asp Arg Tyr Gly Asn Ser Phe Met His
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   15
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC CDR2
              <400>   15
              Arg Ala Ser Asn Leu Glu Ser
              1               5

<removed-date>
              <210>   16
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   wt 4E11 LC CDR3
              <400>   16
              Gln Arg Ser Asn Glu Val Pro Trp Thr
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   17
              <211>   93
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Dengue virus type 1
              <400>   17
              Met Cys Thr Gly Ser Phe Lys Leu Glu Lys Glu Val Ala Glu Thr Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Gly Thr Val Leu Val Gln Val Lys Tyr Glu Gly Thr Asp Ala Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Cys Lys Ile Pro Phe Ser Ser Gln Asp Glu Lys Gly Val Thr Gln Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Arg Leu Ile Thr Ala Asn Pro Ile Val Thr Asp Lys Glu Lys Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Asn Ile Glu Ala Glu Pro Pro Phe Gly Glu Ser Tyr Ile Val Val
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Ala Gly Glu Lys Ala Leu Lys Leu Ser Trp Phe Lys
                              85                  90
              <210>   18
              <211>   93
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Dengue virus type 2
              <400>   18
              Met Cys Thr Gly Lys Phe Lys Val Val Lys Glu Ile Ala Glu Thr Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Gly Thr Met Val Ile Arg Val Gln Tyr Glu Gly Asp Asp Ser Pro
                          20                  25                  30

              Cys Lys Ile Pro Phe Glu Ile Met Asp Leu Glu Lys Lys His Val Leu
<removed-date>
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Arg Leu Ile Thr Val Asn Pro Ile Val Ile Glu Lys Asp Ser Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Asn Ile Glu Ala Glu Pro Pro Phe Gly Asp Ser Tyr Ile Ile Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Gly Val Glu Pro Gly Gln Leu Lys Leu Asn Trp Phe Lys
                              85                  90
              <210>   19
              <211>   93
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Dengue virus type 3
              <400>   19
              Met Cys Thr Asn Thr Phe Val Leu Lys Lys Glu Val Ser Glu Thr Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Gly Thr Ile Leu Ile Lys Val Glu Tyr Lys Gly Glu Asp Ala Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Cys Lys Ile Pro Phe Ser Thr Glu Asp Gly Gln Gly Lys Ala His Asn
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Arg Leu Ile Thr Ala Asn Pro Val Val Thr Lys Lys Glu Glu Pro
                  50                  55                  60
              Val Asn Ile Glu Ala Glu Pro Pro Phe Gly Glu Ser Asn Ile Val Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Ile Gly Asp Asn Ala Leu Lys Ile Asn Trp Tyr Lys
                              85                  90
              <210>   20
              <211>   93
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Dengue virus type 4
              <400>   20
              Met Cys Ser Gly Lys Phe Ser Ile Asp Lys Glu Met Ala Glu Thr Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              His Gly Thr Thr Val Val Lys Val Lys Tyr Glu Gly Ala Gly Ala Pro
                          20                  25                  30

<removed-date>
              Cys Lys Val Pro Ile Glu Ile Arg Asp Val Asn Lys Glu Lys Val Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Arg Ile Ile Ser Ser Thr Pro Leu Ala Glu Asn Thr Asn Ser Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Thr Asn Ile Glu Leu Glu Pro Pro Phe Gly Asp Ser Tyr Ile Val Ile
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Gly Val Gly Asn Ser Ala Leu Thr Leu His Trp Phe Arg
                              85                  90
              <210>   21
              <211>   117
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   HC of provided antibody agents
              <400>   21
              Glu Val Lys Leu Leu Glu Gln Ser Gly Ala Glu Leu Val Lys Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Ala Ser Val Arg Leu Ser Cys Thr Ala Ser Gly Phe Asn Ile Lys Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Thr Tyr Met Ser Trp Val Lys Gln Arg Pro Glu Gln Gly Leu Glu Trp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ile Gly Arg Ile Asp Pro Glu Asn Gly Asp Thr Lys Tyr Asp Pro Lys
                  50                  55                  60
              Phe Gln Gly Lys Ala Thr Ile Thr Ala Asp Thr Ser Ser Asn Thr Ala
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Leu His Leu Ser Ser Leu Thr Ser Gly Asp Thr Ala Val Tyr Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Cys Ser Arg Gly Trp Glu Gly Phe Ala Tyr Trp Gly Gln Gly Thr Leu
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Thr Val Ser Ala
                      115
              <210>   22

              <211>   112
              <212>   PRT
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   LC of provided antibody agents
              <400>   22
              Glu Leu Val Met Thr Gln Thr Pro Ala Ser Leu Ala Val Ser Leu Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Gln Arg Ala Thr Ile Ser Cys Arg Ala Ser Glu Asn Val Asp Lys Tyr
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Asn Ser Phe Met His Trp Tyr Gln Gln Lys Ala Gly Gln Pro Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Lys Leu Leu Ile Tyr Arg Ala Ser Glu Leu Gln Trp Gly Ile Pro Ala
                  50                  55                  60
              Arg Phe Ser Gly Ser Gly Ser Arg Thr Asp Phe Thr Leu Thr Ile Asn
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Pro Val Glu Ala Asp Asp Val Ala Thr Tyr Phe Cys Gln Arg Ser Asn
                              85                  90                  95
              Glu Val Pro Trp Thr Phe Gly Gly Gly Thr Lys Leu Glu Ile Lys Arg
                          100                 105                 110
              <210>   23
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   HC CDR1 of provided antibody agents
              <400>   23
              Gly Phe Asn Ile Lys Asp Thr
              1               5
              <210>   24
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   HC CDR2 of provided antibody agents
              <400>   24

              Asp Pro Glu Asn Gly Asp
              1               5
<removed-date>
              <210>   25
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   artificial
              <220>
              <223>   HC CDR3 of provided antibody agents
              <400>   25
<removed-apn>
              Gly Trp Glu Gly Phe Ala Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   26
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   LC CDR1 of provided antibody agents
              <400>   26
              Arg Ala Ser Glu Asn Val Asp Lys Tyr Gly Asn Ser Phe Met His
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   27
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   LC CDR2 of provided antibody agents
              <400>   27
              Arg Ala Ser Glu Leu Gln Trp
              1               5
              <210>   28
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   LC CDR3 of provided antibody agents
              <400>   28
              Gln Arg Ser Asn Glu Val Pro Trp Thr
              1               5

