                                       Abstract
A collection device for collecting airborne particles within a longwall mine
includes: a base having a magnetic engagement member disposed on a first
side thereof and adapted to engage a first powered roof support; and a gutter
portion extending outwardly from a second side of the base that terminates in
a free end, wherein the base and the gutter portion define an upper collection
surface that facilitates the collection of airborne particles therein.

              2/3
                          C
    CNN
          CNN
     C14)
                      CNC
01~
                  CNC
                            ~~co
      CNC
            FIG. 2

                                      TITLE
                             COLLECTION DEVICE
                           FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[001]      The present invention relates to a collection device for collecting
airborne particles in a mine. In particular, although not exclusively, the
invention relates to a collection device for collecting airborne particles, and
more particularly coal dust, in a longwall mine.
                      BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[002]       Longwall mining is effective in the recovery of valuable resources,
such as coal. This process typically employs the use of a plurality of hydraulic
jacks called powered roof supports, which are lined up side by side in order to
support the roof of the coalface along its length. Such roof supports generally
extend to a maximum cutting height of about 6 metres and may hydraulically
advance themselves as the coalface retreats.
[003]      A shearer or power loader is typically used to cut or remove the
coal from the coalface. The shearer is transported back and forth along the
length of the coalface on an armoured face conveyor (AFC). The AFC is
placed in front of the powered roof supports, and the shearing action of the
shearer cutting into the coal seam disintegrates the coal. The mined coal is
then loaded onto the AFC, which subsequently removes it from the coal face.
[004]      As mining of the coal face progresses, the powered roof supports
move forward hydraulically into the newly created cavity, such that the entire
longwall progresses through the coal seam, increasing the cavity behind the
longwall (i.e., the goaf). By virtue of the weight of the overlying strata, the
upper coal section of the seam is then induced to collapse at the goaf side
and is removed by a second AFC, which is situated behind the roof supports.
[005]       One problem with the above described method of longwall mining
is the control of airborne dust or particulate matter, and in particular coal dust,
produced by the excavation and collapse of material within the coalface.
Additionally, significant amounts of particulate matter may fall from areas of
the coalface roof between adjacent powered roof supports. Such dust may
                                         1

pollute the longwall mine with unhealthy airborne particulates that may be a
source of adverse health effects through respirable exposure thereof. To this
end, workers in a longwall mine may be at risk of developing pneumoconiosis
(e.g., black lung disease), progressive massive fibrosis, silicosis, and chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease upon chronic exposure to these airborne
particles.
[006]      Accordingly, a device to catch and collect airborne particles at the
coalface, and in particular that which falls from the mine roof in, for example,
the space between adjacent powered roof supports, is required.
                           OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[007]       It is an object of the present invention to overcome and/or alleviate
one or more of the disadvantages of the prior art or provide the consumer with
a useful or commercial choice.
                         SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[008]       In one aspect, although not necessarily the only aspect or the
broadest aspect, the invention resides in a collection device for collecting
airborne particles within a longwall mine comprising:
        a base having a magnetic engagement member disposed on a first
side thereof and adapted to engage a first powered roof support; and
        a gutter portion extending outwardly from a second side of the base
that terminates in a free end,
        wherein the base and the gutter portion define an upper collection
surface that facilitates the collection of airborne particles therein.
[009]       In one embodiment, the gutter portion is substantially planar.
[0010]      Suitably, the collection surface is substantially V-shaped in cross
section.
[0011]      In particular embodiments, the gutter portion is at an angle of about
25 degrees to about 90 degrees with respect to the first or second side.
[0012]      In a second aspect, the invention resides in a method of collecting
airborne particles in a longwall mine, including the steps of:
                                           2

        (a) providing a collection device comprising a base having a magnetic
engagement member disposed on a first side thereof and adapted to engage
a first powered roof support, and a gutter portion extending outwardly from a
second side of the base that terminates in a free end, wherein the base and
the gutter portion define an upper collection surface that facilitates the
collection of airborne particles therein; and
        (b) installing the collection device on the first powered roof support.
[0013]       With respect to the method of the present aspect, the collection
device is suitably installed on an outer surface portion of the first powered roof
support so as to facilitate the collection of particles falling between the first
powered roof support and a second powered roof support adjacent thereto. In
an alternative embodiment, the collection device is installed on an inner
surface portion of the first powered roof support so as to facilitate the
collection of particles falling between a side shield portion and/or a goaf shield
portion and an adjacent canopy portion of the first powered roof support.
[0014]       Suitably, the method of the present aspect further includes the step
of cleaning or washing the collection device so as to remove the collected
airborne particles therefrom.
[0015]       Suitably, the collection device is that of the aforementioned aspect.
[0016]       Further features of the invention will become apparent from the
detailed description below.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]       To assist in understanding the invention and to enable a person
skilled in the art to put the invention into practical effect, preferred
embodiments of the invention will be described by way of example only with
reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
             FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a collection
device of the present invention secured on a first powered roof support;
             FIG. 2 illustrates a side view of the collection device of Figure 1
mounted between the first powered roof support and a second powered roof
support; and
                                           3

            FIG. 3 is a side view of a further embodiment of a collection device
secured to the first powered roof support.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0018]      The present invention relates to a collection device for collecting or
catching airborne particles in a longwall mine, and in particular coal mines.
Elements of the invention are illustrated in concise outline form in the
drawings,    showing    only those specific details that are necessary to
understand the embodiments of the present invention, but so as not to provide
excessive detail that will be obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art in light
of the present description.
[0019]      In this specification, adjectives such as first and second, top and
bottom, upwards and downwards, and the like may be used solely to
distinguish one element or action from another element or action without
necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order. Words
such as "comprises" or "includes" are intended to define a non-exclusive
inclusion, such that a method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements
does not include only those elements but may include other elements not
expressly listed, including elements that are inherent to such a method or
system.
[0020]      According to a first aspect, the present invention is defined as a
collection device for collecting airborne particles within a longwall mine
comprising:
        a base having an engagement member disposed on a first side thereof
and adapted to engage a first powered roof support; and
        a gutter portion extending outwardly from a second side of the base
that terminates in a free end,
        wherein the base and the gutter portion define an upper collection
surface that facilitates the collection of airborne particles therein.
[0021]      Particular advantages of some embodiments of the collection
device of the present invention include the reduction in the amount of airborne
particles, such as coal dust, falling into walkways and operational areas of the
                                          4

longwall mine from the mine roof, thereby reducing respirable exposure to
such particles to workers therein. A further advantage resides in the ease of
installation (and removal if required) of the collection device provided herein
and the ability to be easily retrofitted onto powered roof supports within the
longwall mine.
[0022]      Figures 1 and 2 provide a preferred embodiment of a collection
device 100 of the invention installed at a position between a first powered roof
support 10 and a second powered roof support 20 adjacent thereto and
positioned under a mine roof 50. Each of the powered roof supports 10, 20
include a side shield 12, 22 and a canopy 13, 23 connected thereto by a
respective frame portion 14, 24.
[0023]      In this regard, the collection device 100 is secured to a lateral
surface portion of the side shield 12 of the first powered roof support 10 by
way of a magnetic engagement member 105. To this end, the magnetic
engagement member 105 may comprise a magnet or a ferrous metal pole
piece. In particular embodiments, the magnetic engagement member 105 is or
comprises a permanent magnet as are known in the art. In alternative
embodiments, it will be appreciated that the magnetic engagement member
105 may include some other magentisable material or an electromagnetic
element.
[0024]      The collection device 100 further includes a base 110 that extends
axially along a longitudinal axis thereof. As can be seen from Figure 1, the
base is substantially triangularly shaped in cross-section so as to define a first
side 111, a second side 112 and a third side 113. To this end, the magnetic
engagement member 105 is disposed on the first side 111 of the base 110
and extends axially therealong.
[0025]      Referring to Figures 1 and 2, the collection device 100 further
includes a gutter portion 120 that extends axially along the length of the base
110 and is integrally formed therewith. The gutter portion has a planar
protruding portion 121 that terminates in a free end 122. To this end, the
gutter portion 120 extends outwardly and angularly from a juncture of the
second and third sides 112, 113 so as to define a V-shaped channel portion
125 and an upper collection surface 130. It will be appreciated that in
alternative embodiments, the protruding portion 121 may be, for example,
                                         5

curved or curvilinear in cross-section so as to form or define a U-shaped
channel.
[0026]     As can be observed in Figure 2, the protruding portion 121 of the
gutter portion 120 extends outwardly a distance sufficient such that a distal
end portion thereof including the free end 122 underlies a side shield 22 of the
adjacent second powered roof support 20. By virtue of this arrangement, the
V-shaped channel 125 directly underlies that section of the mine roof 50 in the
space between the first and second powered roof supports 10, 20 so as to
catch and      collect any airborne      particles, such as coal     dust, falling
therebetween, and prevent it polluting the work space and/or walkway below.
The distance between the side shields 12, 22 of adjacent powered roof
supports 10, 20 typically varies from about 50 mm to about 200 mm.
Accordingly, the base member 110 and the gutter portion 120 are preferably
of dimensions to extend across such a distance.
[0027]      Figure 3 illustrates a further embodiment of a collection device 200
of the invention. Similar to that previously described, the collection device 200
includes a magnetic engagement member 205 disposed on a first side 211 of
a base 110, which is triangular in cross-section to further define a second and
a third side 212, 213 thereof. The base 210 further extends axially along a
longitudinal axis of the collection device 200. Similar to the embodiment
provided in Figures 1 and 2, the collection device 200 further includes a gutter
portion 220 extending axially along the length of the base 110 that is integrally
formed therewith. The gutter portion 220 includes a planar protruding portion
221 that terminates in a free end 222. Further, the gutter portion 220 extends
outwardly and upwardly from a juncture of the second and third sides 212,
213 so as to define a V-shaped channel portion 225 and an upper collection
surface 230. As will be appreciated, the gutter portion 220 is more acutely
angled with respect to the base 220 than that of the embodiment of the
collection device 100 illustrated in Figures 1 and 2. Nonetheless, for the
collection device 100, 200 described herein, the gutter portion 120, 220 is
preferably at an angle of about 25 degrees to about 90 degrees (e.g., about
25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90 degrees) and any range
therein with respect to the first side 111, 211 of said device 100, 200.
                                          6

[0028]      To this end, the collection device 200 is designed to be mounted on
a medial surface portion of the side shield 12 by way of the magnetic
engagement member 205, such that the gutter portion 220 extends towards
and/or abuts a lower surface portion of the canopy 13 of the first powered roof
support 10. By virtue of this arrangement, the upper collection surface 230
directly underlies or spans the space 11 between the side shield 12 and the
canopy 13 of the first powered roof support and facilitates the collection of
airborne particles, such as coal dust, that falls from the mine roof 50
therebetween. It will be appreciated that the collection device may similarly be
mounted on a medial surface portion of a goaf shield (not shown) or similar.
[0029]      The base 110, 210 and gutter portions 120, 220 of the collection
devices 100, 200 as disclosed herein may be composed of any suitable
plastic or composite material able to withstand the operative conditions of a
longwall mine environment. Preferably, the collection device 100, 200
comprises a material that is flexible or resiliently deformable so as to be
adapted to flex or deform and automatically return to its previous position
upon movement of the powered roof supports 10, 20.
[0030]      To this end, it will be understood that as the face of the longwall
mine advances, the powered roof supports 10, 20 automatically advance from
their previous position to a new position that holds up the new section of the
mine roof 50. In referring to the embodiment provided in Figure 2, when the
adjacent second powered roof support 20 advances, the protruding portion
121 will be engaged by the side shield 22 thereof to flex downwards relative to
the base member 110. The upper collection surface 130 then slides along the
lower portion of the side shield 22 as the second powered roof support 20
moves forward. Once the first powered roof support 10 advances to be back
adjacent and aligned with the second powered roof support 20, the flexibility
of the protruding portion 121 allows it to automatically re-position itself
underlying the side shield 22.
[0031]      In addition to the above, it will be apparent to the skilled artisan that
the collection device 100, 200 may further be coupled with a washing system
or washing apparatus as are known in the art so as to facilitate the removal of
airborne particles collected therein. By way of example, a fixed sprayer may
be positioned above a portion of the collection device 100, 200 and activated
                                          7

when required so as to flush or wash out the collected airborne particles,
preferably into the goaf or the floor between the first and second powered roof
supports 10, 20.
[0032]       The above description of various embodiments of the present
invention is provided for purposes of description to one of ordinary skill in the
related art. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to a
single disclosed embodiment. As mentioned above, numerous alternatives
and variations to the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the
art of the above teaching. Accordingly, while some alternative embodiments
have been discussed specifically, other embodiments will be apparent or
relatively easily developed by those of ordinary skill in the art. The invention
is intended to embrace all alternatives, modifications, and variations of the
present invention that have been discussed herein, and other embodiments
that fall within the spirit and scope of the above described invention.
                                           8

                                       CLAIMS
1.      A collection device for collecting airborne particles within a longwall
mine comprising:
        a base having a magnetic engagement member disposed on a first
side thereof and adapted to engage a first powered roof support; and
        a gutter portion extending outwardly from a second side of the base
that terminates in a free end,
        wherein the base and the gutter portion define an upper collection
surface that facilitates the collection of airborne particles therein.
2.      The collection device of Claim 1, wherein the gutter portion is
substantially planar.
3.      The collection device of Claim 1, wherein the collection surface is
substantially V-shaped in cross-section.
4.      The collection device of Claim 1, wherein the gutter portion is at an
angle of about 25 degrees to about 90 degrees with respect to the first or
second side.
5.           A method of collecting airborne particles in a longwall mine,
including the steps of:
        (a) providing a collection device comprising a base having a magnetic
engagement member disposed on a first side thereof and adapted to engage
a first powered roof support, and a gutter portion extending outwardly from a
second side of the base that terminates in a free end, wherein the base and
the gutter portion define an upper collection surface that facilitates the
collection of airborne particles therein; and
        (b) installing the collection device on the first powered roof support.
                                           9

6.      The method of Claim 5, wherein the collection device is installed on an
outer surface portion of the first powered roof support so as to facilitate the
collection of particles falling between the first powered roof support and a
second powered roof support adjacent thereto.
7.      The method of Claim 5, wherein the collection device is installed on an
inner surface portion of the first powered roof support so as to facilitate the
collection of particles falling between a side shield portion and/or a goaf shield
portion and an adjacent canopy portion of the first powered roof support.
8.      The method of Claim 5, further including the step of cleaning or
washing the collection device so as to remove the collected airborne particles
therefrom.
9.      The method of any one of Claims 5 to 8, wherein the collection device
is that of any one of Claims 1 to 4.
                                         10

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3437383v1
                                            1/3
            FIG. 1

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3437383v1
                                            2/3
            FIG. 2

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3437383v1
                                            3/3
            FIG. 3

