ABSTRACT
A multimodal sensor includes a microtensiometer for measuring the chemical potential of a sub
saturated liquid, a temperature sensor, and a water content sensor. The microtensiometer includes
a sensor body comprising a first gas-impermeable layer, an opposing second gas-impermeable
layer, and a porous membrane layer disposed therebetween. The sensor body defines an internal
liquid reservoir. The membrane layer is fluidly connected with the liquid reservoir, and extends to
an outside edge of the microtensiometer. The membrane layer defines a plurality of through pores
providing an open path from the liquid reservoir to the outside edge of the microtensiometer. The
pores have a maximum diameter of 3 millimeters. The microtensiometer further includes a sensor
adapted to measure changes in pressure between the liquid reservoir and an outside environment.
The temperature sensor is integrated onto the microtensiometer body, and the water content sensor
is coupled to the microtensiometer body.

      MULTIMODAL SENSOR, METHOD OF USE AND FABRICATION
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[00011          Reference is made to and this application claims priority from and the
benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/835,224, filed June 14, 2013, entitled
"MICROTENSIOMETER             SENSOR, PROBE AND               METHOD OF USE", which
application is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[00021          This disclosure relates generally to microelectromechanical sensors and.,
more specifically, to a microtensiometer for measuring chemical potential at negative
pressures or in sub-saturated phases.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[00031          In both natural and technological contexts, the degree of saturation with
respect to water often plays a central role in defining a system's properties and function.
For example, in the atmosphere, relative humidity is a critical meteorological indicator,
and is important to evaporative demand on soil. bodies of water, and the biosphere. In the
context of plants and agriculture, water saturation in the soil and atmosphere controls
viability, growth potential, yield. and quality of crop. In foods, water activity affects taste,
texture, and stability with respect to bacterial and fungal growth. In chemical and
biological processes, the osmotic strength of aqueous solutions controls the kinetics and
thermodynamics      of reactions and the stability of cells, proteins, and materials.
Additionally, the water status and dynamics of water in concrete is critical to final quality.
[00041           The chemical potential of water, p,. [J mol- 1], within a phase or host
material provides the most generally useful measure of the degree of hydration. This
thermodynamic state variable quantifies the free energy of water molecules and thus their
accessibility for chemical reactions and physical exchange with other phases or materials.
For example, regardless of the local mode of transport, the driving force for mass transfer

can be expressed as a gradient of chemical potential. The chemical potential of water can
be characterized with two convenient state variables. The first is activity, a, defined as
the relative humidity of a vapor in equilibrium with the phase of interest (a, = p/p,(T),
where p and p.,(T) are the vapor pressure and saturation vapor pressure at temperature T,
respectively). The second is water potential,        P    [MPa], the deviation of the chemical
potential from its value at saturation divided by the molar volume of liquid water (R          =
(.w   -  p(AT))/q). Water potential is widely used in the plant and soil science
communities. The typical water potential range of plants and soils is -0.001 >         , > -3.0
MPa (0.99999 > a, > 0.978).
[00051          For in situ measurements,          existing methods    of hygrometry include
capacitance,    resistance,    thermal   conductivity,      psychrometric,   and  tensiometric.
Capacitance, resistance, and dielectric methods measure the corresponding electronic
property of a calibrated material within the sensor that is allowed to reach its equilibrium
hydration with the phase of interest. Although these methods allow for small form factors
(e.g., < I cm sensing areas), they suffer drawbacks. One drawback is that they generally
provide moderate-to-low accuracy for drier conditions (i.e., ± -0.02 in activity for a, <
0.9;    -3 MPa in water potential). Another drawback is they become less accurate above
this range (i.e., ± 25% of measurement of water potential for the MPS-2 dielectric
hygrometer by Decagon), and the response time 10-60 minutes. Despite their limited
accuracy, resistive and capacitive sensors are widely used for coarse measurements of
water status in soils for irrigation scheduling.
[0006]          Psychrometry, and thermocouple psychrometry in particular, has been
heavily studied for in situ hygrometry in the environmental context. Thermocouple
psychrometry involves the measurement of the dew point temperature on a wetted
thermocouple evaporating into a volume of air that separates it from the sample of interest.
It is a transient, non-equilibrium process. The range of commercial psychrometers is
reported by the manufacturer to be 0.999 to 0.93 in activity and -0.1 to -10 MPa in water
potential with an accuracy of + 0.001 in activity and ± 0.1 MPa in water potential. These
                                                 .2

 devices have good response time (-I min.), however. they are temperature-sensitive and
 expertise is required for installation.
 [00071          Tensiometers operate on the principle of equilibration between a sample of
interest and an internal volume of liquid water via a vapor gap and a porous membrane.
 Conmiercially-available tensiometers consist of an air-tight, water-filled tube with a
porous ceramic tip at the bottom and a vacuum gauge at the top. The tensiometer is partly
buried in the soil to a suitable depth, and the ceramic tip allows water to move freely in or
 out of the tube. As the soil dries out, water is sucked out through the porous ceramic tip,
 reducing the pressure inside the tensiometer to values below atmospheric pressure; this
pressure is read on the vacuum gauge. When the soil is wetted by sufficient rainfall or
irrigation, water flows back into the tensiometer, the pressure rises and the gauge reading
rises.
 [0008]          Commercially-available tensiometers have a small range of I to 0.9988 in
 activity or 0 to -0.16 MPa in water potential with an excellent accuracy of± 5x10-4 MPa in
 water potential. However, they have a long response time (-30 min.) and they fail due to
invasion of air or cavitation beyond this range. Despite the extremely limited range and
large form factors of conventional tensiometers (sensing area > 10 cm2), their unmatched
 accuracy near saturation means that they are used extensively to monitor the water
potential in soils for irrigation scheduling for annual crops that require moist conditions to
 grow.
 [0009]          Current research efforts have pursued two strategies to extend the
 operational range of tensiometers, The first strategy used porous membranes with smaller
pore sizes to achieve stability out to T    = -1.5 MPa (a,,   0.99). However, these so-called
 "high capacitance tensiometers" have similar form factors as those of conventional
 tensiometers. The second strategy used osmotic solutions within the internal volume of the
 tensiometers to extend the stability limit. This approach has been refined and demonstrated
 out to     = -1.6 MPa (a, = 0.988) with a reduced form factor (1.5 cm ).
                                                 3

[0010]          Furthermore, local water content and chemical potential define the physical
properties of materials, the rates of chemical transformations, and the accessibility of
water for exchange within the local environment. Fluxes of water are strongly coupled to
and, in many cases, control the transport of energy and other chemical species. The ability
to understand and predict natural processes such as climate change and optimize human
processes such as irrigation depend on the ability to measure water content, chemical
potential, and flux quantitatively, with appropriate spatial and temporal resolution and
accounting for their complex coupling to temperature, material properties, and biological
response.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011]          The inventors have noted that the tensiometric approach presents a
promising route to accurate measurements of chemical potential across the range near
saturation (a,. > 0.93, IF > -10 MPa) if the stability limit can be significantly extended.
Disclosed herein is a microelectromechanical system (MEMS) that spans the entire water
potential range of plants and soils (e.g., -0.001 > Y,, > -3.0 MPa; 0.99999 > a, > 0.978)
with a form factor that is compatible with in situ measurements within complex
environments such as soils and plant tissues. The smaller sensor allows for measurements
with higher spatial resolution and for embedding of the sensor within complex samples
such as the vascular tissues of living plants. The MEMS approach helps extend the
stability limit by minimizing the internal volume of the liquid that is placed at reduced
pressure, minimizing the presence of impurities, which often lower the energetic barrier to
nucleation, and allowing for the formation of the exchange membrane in well-defined,
nanoporous materials such as porous silicon.
[0012]          In accordance with one aspect of the disclosure, a microtensiometer
includes a sensor body comprising a first gas-impermeable layer and an opposing second
gas-impermeable layer. The sensor body defines a sealed internal liquid reservoir. The
microtensiometer further includes a porous membrane layer disposed between the first and
second gas-impermeable layers. The membrane layer is in fluid contact with the liquid
reservoir, and extends to an outside edge of the microtensiometer. The membrane layer
                                               4

defines a plurality of through pores. The pores provide an open path from the liquid
reservoir to the outside edge of the microtensiometer. The pores have a maximum
diameter of 3 millimeters. The microtensiometer further includes a sensor adapted to
measure changes in pressure between the liquid reservoir and an outside environment.
[0013]          In another aspect of the disclosure, a multimodal sensor includes a
microtensiometer adapted to measure the chemical potential of a sub-saturated liquid, a
temperature sensor, and a water content sensor. The microtensiometer includes a sensor
body comprising a first gas-impermeable layer and an opposing second gas-impermeable
layer. The sensor body defines a sealed internal liquid reservoir. The microtensiometer
further includes a   porous membrane layer disposed between the first and second gas
impermeable layers. The membrane layer is in fluid contact with the liquid reservoir, and
extends to an outside edge of the microtensiometer. The membrane layer defines a
plurality of through pores. The pores provide an open path from the liquid reservoir to the
outside edge of the microtensiometer. The pores have a maximum diameter of 3
millimeters. The microtensiometer further includes a sensor adapted to measure changes in
pressure of the liquid reservoir. The temperature           sensor is integrated    onto the
microtensiometer body, and the water content sensor is coupled to the microtensioneter
body.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014]          The features described herein can be better understood with reference to the
drawings described below. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead
generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention. In the drawings.,
like numerals are used to indicate like parts throughout the various views.
[0015]          FIG. I depicts a cross sectional view of a tensiometer in equilibrium with a
subsaturated environment according to one embodiment of the present invention:
[00161          FIG. 2 depicts a cross sectional view of the tensiometer of FIG. I in
subsaturated conditions;
[0017]          FIG. 3 depicts an enlarged view of the porous membrane shown in FIG. 1;
                                               5

[0018]         FIG. 4 depicts an enlarged view of a pore shown in FIG. 3;
[0019]         FIG. 5 depicts a cross sectional view of a microtensiometer according to
one embodiment of the present invention;
[0020]         FIG. 6 depicts a top view of an exemplary embodiment of a fabrication
approach to manufacture the microtensiometer shown in FIG. 5;
[00211         FIG. 7 depicts a top view of the microtensiometer shown in FIG. 5:
[0022]         FIG. 8 depicts an exemplary embodiment of a pressure sensor shown in
FIG. 7;
[0023]         FIG. 9 depicts a flow chart illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a
process for fabricating a microtensiometer, and further schematically illustrates the
process steps;
[0024]         FIG. 10 depicts a cross sectional view of a multimodal sensor according to
one embodiment of the present invention;
[0025]         FIG. 11 depicts is a top view of the multimodal sensor shown in FIG. 10;
[00261         FIG. 12 depicts a top view of a thin-film wave guide according to one
embodiment of the invention;
[0027]         FIG. 13 depicts a cross sectional view of a microtensiometer with
permeability channels;
[0028]         FIG. 14 depicts a bottom view of the microtensiometer shown in FIG. 13;
[0029]         FIG. 15 depicts a cross sectional view of an apparatus for calibrating the
thin film wave guide shown in FIG. 12;
[0030]         FIG. 16 depicts a cross sectional view of an apparatus for characterizing a
soil sample:
[00311         FIG. 17 depicts is a top view of the apparatus shown in FIG. 16;
                                             6

[0032]          FIG. 18 depicts a cross sectional view of a multimodal sensor embedded
within the xylem tissue of the sten of a plant; and
[00331          FIG. 19 depicts a cross sectional view of a sensor system to measure the
conductance of the xylem tissue in an excised stem of a plant.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00341          The concept of tensiometry is based on the coupling of liquid water to
vapor via a wettable porous membrane. Referring to FIG. 1, a tensiometer 10 according to
one embodiment of the invention includes a body 12 enclosing a liquid reservoir 14. A
porous membrane 16 is fluidly coupled on one side to the liquid reservoir 14, and on the
other side to an external phase of interest, or vapor interface 18, of a sample 20. In the
illustrated embodiment, the body 12 is formed of silicon and serves as a backbone
structure for the microtensiometer elements, the liquid reservoir 14 contains a sealed
volume of water, and the tensiometer 10 is shown inserted into a soil sample 20. The
tensiometer 10 includes a flexible diaphragm 22 and a sensor 24 attached or integral
thereto. In one embodiment, the sensor 24 is a strain gauge. Changes in hydrostatic
pressure within the liquid reservoir 14 can be determined by measuring the deflection of
the diaphragm 22 via the strain gauge 24. In FIG. 1, the bulk liquid 14 is in equilibrium
with the saturated vapor 18 of the soil sample 20 (Piq = Patm ~ 0.1 MPa). That is, liquid
vapor equilibrium exists and no net evaporation occurs from the bulk liquid reservoir 14.
[0035]          Chemical equilibration occurs between a macroscopic volume of pure
liquid inside the reservoir 14 and a vapor that itself is in equilibrium with the chemical
potential of the phase of interest 20 outside the device 10. As used herein, a macroscopic
volume is a large enough volume-to-surface area ratio to minimize wall interactions that
could affect the thermodynamic        properties of the liquid (e.g., the smallest cavity
dimension is greater than    1 pm). Equation (1) expresses chemical equilibration as:
                 pw,uiq(T,Paq)=     wvap(T,pvap) = Msample                         (1)
                                               7

[0036]          Referring to FIGS. 2-4, when exposed to a sub-sawrated external phase, the
pure water in the tensiometer 10 will evaporate from the external surface of the membrane
16. This loss of fluid will reduce the pressure in the bulk phase (Piq) within the cavity 14.
This reduction of pressure will lower the chemical potential (pIliq) of the internal liquid. If
the liquid phase remains intact, i.e., does not change phase to vapor (cavitate), the pressure
will decrease until the internal and external chemical potentials are equal and transfer of
water will cease. The pressure at which this equilibrium will occur can be found by
expanding the expressions for the chemical potential of the pure liquid and vapor (ideal
gas) in equation (1):
        pO(T) +   f"j' vwlu(P'uq,T)dP'uq
                    "patm
                                                = g,(T) + RTIn(awap)=
                                                                 (samp               e
        (2)
where p1 i(T) [J molP ] is the chemical potential of water on the vapor-liquid coexistence
line (in the presence of Pa,, of air) at temperature T [K],    vwaq [m molf] is the molar
volume of the liquid, R = 8.314 [J mol'         K-1 is the ideal gas constant, and awsap     =
Prap/Pat (T) = relative humidity (%)100 is the activity of the vapor at temperature, T. In
equation (2), the liquid is assumed to be pure (awiq = 1). If one also assumes that the
internal liquid is inextensible (v.44 = constant), equation (2) can be solved for the
pressure of water inside the tensiometer cavity, Pu, at equilibrium:
        Piq = Patm     ±                 ) = Pam    +
                                                  n(wsap            Pat   +
        (3)
[0037]          Equation (3) can be rearranged to provide relationships between the water
potential of a phase of interest (T1,), the pressure difference between the internal liquid
and the atmosphere, and the activity of the vapor that mediates their equilibrium:
                Y, =P        - Pn(ap,,
                                am =                  1,)
                (4)
                                                8

[0038]          The relations in equation (4) hold within the approximation of constant
molar volume of the liquid. Equation (4) demonstrates that the water potential is the
pressure difference across the tensiometer 10. In other words, a tensiometer provides a
direct, approximate measurement of water potential.
[0039]          Equation (4) also illustrates the unusual sensitivity of tensiometry near
saturation: for a, = 1 + Aa,        with  aw < 1, the water potential at room temperature (T
   293 K) can be expressed as:
                q,    e     RT   ha,  : 135Aa,     [MPa]
                          t'wjiq
                (5)
[00401          For example, for a 1% reduction in activity from saturation (Aa, = -0.01).
the diaphragm 22 of the tensiometer experiences a difference of pressure (from equation
(5)) of T,     = P.,liq -    Patm = -1.3 MPa. The microtensiometer disclosed herein is
projected to measure pressure differences as small as 10-6 MPa with appropriate design of
the diaphragm 22 and sensor 24, allowing for extreme sensitivity to small changes in
saturation.
[0041]          FIG. 3 depicts a portion of the membrane 16 at the interface of the liquid
reservoir 14. The pores 26 couple the external vapor 18 with bulk water inside the
reservoir. FIG. 4 depicts an enlarged view of a single pore 26 within the porous membrane
 16 showing a concave air-liquid interface 28. In FIG. 4, r, indicates the pore radius and 0,
indicates the contact angle of the liquid with the wall of the membrane. Equation (3) states
that the pressure in the bulk, internal liquid, Pliq will decrease as the activity or water
potential in the external environment decreases. As this pressure drops below ambient,
Pam n     0. 1 MPa, it becomes susceptible to the invasion of air through the pores 26 of the
membrane 16 and to cavitation (formation of gas bubbles). Invasion of air will occur
through the pores of the membrane when:
                                  P    - Pos
                                       -i      <
                                  (6)
                                                 9

where  a is the surface tension of water [0.072 N m-], 0, [rad] is the receding contact angle
of the liquid with the pore wall, rpmax [m] is the radius of the largest pore that spans the
membrane. The threshold in equation (6) represents the Young-Laplace pressure across a
curved meniscus; for nanoscopic pores, it can only serve as a rough estimate of the
threshold. For Psat < Puq <   Patm, the internal liquid will be supersaturated with respect to
air unless it has been degassed, and, therefore, be prone to cavitation by formation of
bubbles of air. For lower pressures, Puq < psat, the liquid will also be superheated and
prone to cavitation via the formation of bubbles of vapor (boiling). In the absence of pre
existing pockets of gas within the cavity, these two modes of cavitation will be kinetically
limited and the liquid will be metastable. In conventional tensiometers, with macroscopic
internal volumes and membranes with micrometer-scale pores, the stability limit tends to
be  IPug - Patml < 0.1 MPa, or a,,,,p > 0.999. The microtensiometer disclosed herein
significantly extends this limit. In one example, the use of nanoporous membranes and
smaller internal volumes permits   IPig - Patm > 20 MPa and awa, < 0.86.
[0042]          Equations (4) and (6) can provide an important link between the desired
range of operation and the required size of pores in the membrane. For example, the
equations can be rewritten as:
                        q w    Piq -  Patm >
                        (7)
Assuming the minimum relevant range of        TP is 0 > T > -5x10' MPa, based on Equation
(7) above, the largest pores in the membrane for this range must be smaller than ~3 mm.
In a practical sense, to add a margin of safety, a largest pore diameter of 0.3 mm would be
adequate. In another example, a range of 0 > T > -102 MPa would be desirable. For this
condition, one would need pores of radius less than one nanometer.
[0043]          Turning now to FIG. 5, wherein like numerals indicate like elements in
FIGS. 1-4. a cross sectional view of a microtensiometer       i10 is shown according to one
embodiment of the present invention. The microtensiometer 110 is a microfluidic sensor
based on microelectromechanical        system (MEMS) technology for the purpose of
                                               10

measuring the chemical potential of water in woody plants, soils, and other systems where
sub-saturated liquids or vapors exist. In one embodiment, the sub-saturated phase is
coupled to a piezoresistive pressure sensor within the microtensiometer via an inorganic
nanoporous membrane made of electrochemically-etched porous silicon, the other side of
which exists a discrete volume of incompressible liquid such as water. Changes in the
degree of sub-saturation result in changes in hydrostatic pressure of the discrete liquid
internal to the device that is sensed by the pressure sensor.
[0044]          The microtensiometer 110 includes a sensor body 112 having an upper
layer 130 and an opposing lower layer 132, and a molecularly porous membrane 116
disposed between the upper and lower layers 130, 132. The width of the upper and lower
layers 130, 132 and the porous membrane 116 is very large compared to their thickness
(e.g., about 100 times larger), and the layers 130, 132 are impermeable to gas (e.g., they
are solid). For example., in one embodiment the width (W) of the layers 130, 132 and the
porous membrane 116 is 10 millimeters. The thickness (T 1 ) of the upper layer 130 is 300
microns, the thickness (T,) of the lower layer 132 is 500 microns, and the thickness (Tm)
                                                                     6
of the porous membrane     116 is 5 microns (1 micron = I pm    1x10   meters). The depth of
the circular liquid reservoir cavity 114 is approximately 25 microns.
[0045]          Sealed within the sensor body 112 is a liquid reservoir 114 that holds a
small volume of liquid, such as water. The porous membrane 116 is in fluid contact with
the liquid reservoir 114, and extends to an outside edge 134 of the microtensiometer 110.
The microtensiometer 110 further includes a sensor 124 adapted to measure changes in the
pressure of the liquid reservoir 114. In the illustrated embodiment, a flexible diaphragm
 122 is adapted to deflect in response to changes in pressure of the liquid reservoir, and
strain gauges 124 sense the deflection. In another embodiment, the measurement of strain
could be performed by alternative methods such as an optical measurement of the
displacement of the diaphragm (or the depth of the cavity). In one embodiment, the liquid
reservoir 114 is the same diameter as the diaphragm 122 (e.g., dimension 2a in FIG. 5).
[0046]          FIG. 6 depicts a top view of an exemplary embodiment of a fabrication
approach to manufacture the microtensiometer       110 shown in FIG. 5. The upper layer 130
                                               11

is formed from a p-type <11        1> silicon wafer, 100 millimeters (4-inches) in diameter.
Thirty eight microtensiometers       I10 are organized on the wafer 130, having diaphragms
 122 of various diameters. For example, there may be five microtensiometers I 0a with a
 1.4 millimeter diaphragm 122a; fourteen microtensiometers 110b with a 4 millimeter
diaphragm 122b; seven microtensiometers I 10c with a 6.8 millimeter diaphragm 122c;
and twelve microtensiometers 11 0d with a 2 millimeter diaphragm 122d.
[0047]            FIG. 7 depicts an enlarged top view of the microtensiometer 110b shown in
FIG. 6 and, in greater detail, the diaphragm-based pressure transducer 124 that measures
the difference between the internal hydrostatic pressure of water in the reservoir 114 and
the outside environment (FIG. 5). Contact pads 136 for the Wheatstone bridge are labeled
C)-C 4, with aluminum leads 138 connected to polysilicon piezoresistors 140, labeled Rf
R4. A pressure difference across the diaphragm 122 causes it to deflect (see, for example,
FIG. 2), and the resulting strain is measured through piezoresistors 140. In one example.,
the pressure sensor 124 consists of four doped polysilicon piezoresistors R1 - R4 placed
atop the circular diaphragm 122 in a Wheatstone bridge configuration. FIG. 8 depicts the
Wheatstone bridge 124 configuration of piezoresistors and connections for applied voltage
(Vin) and measured voltage (Vm). Labels of contact pads and resistors correspond to those
in FIG. 7.
[0048]            For resistances of nearly equal magnitude, the Wheatstone bridge response
(AV,,/AVin) as a function of applied difference in pressure (JP), diaphragm dimensions
(a-radius [n]; h-thickness [m]). and longitudinal and transverse piezoresistive coefficients,
  ; and it, [Pan], can be calculated as:
                                 AVia sv ~Sts
                                            AP +±~i(v
                                                   \ L    , o±
                                 (8)
                                 S=S=                 v)(rcI - ire)
                                 (9)
                                                 12

where S [Pa'] is the sensitivity, v is the Poisson Ratio of polysilicon (-               0.23),
(AV,ft/AVj,,)os is the offset response at JP = 0; the offset is due to small differences in the
resistances of the branches of the Wheatstone bridge and of the contacts to the pads.
Calibration of a pressure sensor involves measuring its values of S and (AV 0 jAVj)os.
[0049]          The microtensiometer 110 may further include a temperature sensor 142. In
one embodiment, the temperature sensor 142 is an integrated thin-film platinum resistance
thermometer. The integrated platinum resistance thermometer              142 allows for the
measurement of temperature which can be used to correct the water potential measurement
for differences in (1) temperature from the calibration temperature, and (2) the sample
vapor temperature from that of the internal microtensiometer water.
[0050]          FIG. 9 depicts a flow chart illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a
process 200 for fabricating a rnicrotensiometer, and further schematically illustrates the
process steps. A cross-sectional and top (or bottom) view is illustrated to the right of the
process steps. While the numbering of the process steps is presented sequentially, the
actual order of operations may be different without departing from the scope of the
invention.
[0051]          In one embodiment of the invention, the upper layer 130 comprises a
double-side polished silicon substrate, 100 mm (4 inches) in diameter. 325 pm thick, p
type doping, <1I1> orientation, and resistivity in the range of 1-10 .2-cm. The substrates
 130 may be procured from University Wafer, http://www.universitywafer.com. The
process 200 may include an initial cleaning step 244, such as RCA cleaning, followed by a
step 246 to grow a thermal oxide layer (e.g.., SiO2) for electrical isolation. In one example,
the substrate 130 is baked in a furnace at 1000'C to achieve a SiO2 thickness of         1I pm.
The process 200 may further include a step 248 to deposit doped p+ polysilicon (e.g.,
B2 Hs:SiH4 -0.045) over the SiO 2 to form the piezoresistors 124. Depositing the doped p+
polysilicon 248 may be carried out using a low pressure chemical vapor deposition
(LPCVD) furnace at 620CC and 400 mTorr to achieve a thickness of           - 900 nm. At a step
250, the wafer 130 may be annealed in argon at 900'C for 30 minutes to enhance the
polysilicon strain response and relax residual stresses. Typical resistivities of the LPCVD
                                              13

polysilicon are 18-23 02-cm in the pre-annealed condition, and 9-14 _Q-cm in the post
 annealed condition.
 [0052]          The process 200 may further include a step 252 to etch alignment marks
into the wafer 130 near the outer circumference to align all subsequent mask layers. The
process 200 further includes steps 254 and 256 to pattern the polysilicon and topside SiO 2
layers using photolithography and dry plasma etching to form the piezoresistors 140 and
 metal insulation pattern. In one example, the final dimensions of the piezoresistors 140 are
 1100 pm x 30 pm x 1 pm. The photolithographic mask images may be designed using L
 EditTm computer-aided design software, available from Tanner EDA, Monrovia, CA. The
 mask images may be transferred to a 5-inch by 5-inch fused-silica (quartz) plate ("mask")
coated with ~ 100 nm chromium and photoresist, using a high-resolution pattern generator
 (Model DWL 2000, available from Heidelberg Instruments. Heidelberg, Germany).
Following pattern transfer (e.g., exposure), the photoresist on the exposed mask is
 developed and the chromium layer wet-etched.
 [0053]          At a step 258, the backside polysilicon layer may be removed by etching,
 for example, and then at a step 260 the backside SiO2 layer may be removed by etching.
Although not illustrated, aluminum may be deposited on the top side at a step 261. Then,
 at a step 262. the cavity for the liquid reservoir may be patterned and etched to a depth of
       u25
       pm on the backside of the silicon wafer using deep reactive ion etching (e.g.. Bosch
 process).
 [0054]          At a step 264, a vapor exchange membrane          i16 (FIG. 3) comprising
nanoporous silicon (PoSi) can be formed on the backside of the silicon wafer 130. The use
 of wafers with <1I1> crystallographic orientation may provide more reliable lateral
 connectivity of pores than the use of <100> orientation. In one example, the setup for the
 fabrication of PoSi may use a custom-built electrochemical etch cell made of
polytetrafluoroethylene (e.g., PTFE or TeflonTM). To ensure electrical contact of the
 silicon wafer to the anode, the wafers may be dipped in 6:1 buffered oxide etch (BOE)
 solution for  1 minute to remove the native oxide, and then coated with - 200 nm of
 aluminum by evaporation on the frontside of the wafer (not shown). The backside of the
                                                14

silicon wafer may then be placed in contact with the etchant, which in on example is a
50:50 (v/v) solution of 49% hydrofluoric acid (HF) and 95% ethanol (EtOH) in the etch
cell. Electrochemical etching may be carried out under a constant current density of 20
mA/cm2 for 5 minutes using a Hewlett Packard DC power supply (Model 6634B). The
resulting PoSi layer (T. in FIG. 5) is approximately 5-6 gm in thickness (depending upon
etch time) with a pore size distribution (e.g., pore diameter or 2r in FIG. 4) of 1-6 nm. In
other example, the pore size distribution may he    1-10 nm. In yet another example, the pore
size distribution may be 1-20 nm. The pore size may be determined by porometry, for
example. After removing the aluminum on the topside of the wafer at a step 265, the PoSi
may be annealed at 700"C for 30 seconds in an 02 environment at a step 266 in order to
replace the hydride-terminated silicon bonds (SiH 4) with 0 2 -terminated silicon to form
SiO 2 . This prevents the PoSi from degassing while bonding and filling with water.
[0055]           At a step 268, the PoSi side of the wafer may be joined to the lower layer
 132 to form the body 112 of the microtensiometer (FIG. 5). In one embodiment of the
invention, the lower layer 132 is formed of a borosilicate glass wafer (such as Borofloat*
or Pyrex*), 100 mtn in diameter and 500 pm thick. The porous side of the wafer 130 may
be anodically-bonded to the glass wafer 132 in a vacuum at 400'C and 1200 V DC. In one
exemplary method of performing step 268, the glass wafer may be cleaned in a standard
SCI solution (29% NH 4 0H and 30% H202 in water at 70'C) for 10 minutes to remove any
organic materials. The silicon wafer 130 may be cleaned by rinsing it with acetone and
isopropyl alcohol. The silicon and glass wafers 130, 132 may be dried and plasma cleaned
in an oxygen plasma asher (RF 150 W, 4 minutes, 70 sccm        02). Then, the PoSi-side of the
silicon wafer 130 may be anodically-bonded to the glass wafer using a substrate wonder,
such as Model Sb8e, Suss Microtec. Garching, Germany.
[0056]           The upper and lower layers 130, 132 are preferably formed of gas
impermeable material. In this manner, the internal liquid reservoir 114 is sealed from the
outside environment, exposed only by way of the outside edge 134 of the porous
membrane 116.
                                               15

[0057]           After bonding, the electrical connections to the piezoresistors 140 may be
formed. Following a short (-15 s) 30:1 BOE dip, a thin-film of aluminum (-250 nm) may
be evaporated on the front side of the bonded wafer at a step 270. At a step 272, the
aluminum may be patterned and wet etched using a solution of phosphoric, acetic, and
nitric acids at 50'C to form the contact pads 136 and leads 138. Aluminum was selected as
the thin-film metal as it makes ohmic contact with polysilicon.
[0058]           At a step 274. electrical isolation and protection of the electronics on the
topside of the silicon wafer may be achieved by depositing a stack of PECVD oxide (SiO 2;
400 nm), nitride (Si 3 N4 ; 200 nm), and oxynitride (SiO2 + 15% SiN 4: 100 nm) at 2000C.
This low deposition temperature can be important to prevent debonding of the wafer. Vias
may then be opened over the metal pads using photolithography and dry etching. Lastly,
individual microtensiometers (e.g., 110a, 110b, I10c, or I 10d in FIG. 6) may be released
from the wafer by dicing with a wafer saw, such as Model 7100, Kulicke & Soffa,
Singapore.
[0059]           To fill the liquid reservoir 114, individual devices I10 may be placed in a
high pressure stainless steel chamber containing demonized water. Water may then be
pressurized through the nanoporous exchange membrane 116 at approximately 5 MPa (50
bar) until the internal channels 126 (FIG. 3) and cavity 114 are filled,     In one example,
microtensiometers 110 may be placed in a vacuum for at least four hours to dry the
membrane 116 and evacuate air from the internal cavity. The devices 116 may then be
filled by placing them in a HIP pressure chamber filled entirely with deionized water
(resistivity 7-18 MD) over 12-72 hours. The time to fill the microtensiometers       i10 may
depend on their internal volumes. For example, the 6.8-mm diaphragm devices may
require as much as three days to fill completely at a pressure of 5 MPa. Higher filling
pressures should be avoided due to the risk of diaphragm fracture from the high applied
strain. For the smaller diaphragm devices (e.g., 1.4 and 2-mm diameter), filling pressures
over 10 MPa could be applied and these may be filled within 12 hours.
[0060]           In use, changes in sub-saturation may be measured using the pressure
sensor 124 as the diaphragm 122 deflects in response to changes in internal pressure of
                                                16

water as it equilibrates with the sub-saturated phase through the nanoporous membrane
 116.
[0061]          The water that permeates soils and plants (the soil-plant continuum)
presents a particularly important and challenging context for thermodynamic and dynamic
measurements. Water in plants and soil controls the terrestrial hydrological cycle via
evaporation and transpiration into the atmosphere. On the atmospheric side of these
processes, tools for both measurement and prediction have advanced rapidly over the past
decades, but they depend on highly simplified models with poorly constrained parameters
to describe the status and movement of water in plants and soil. Scientists can predict
changes in atmospheric forcing of evapotranspiration, but cannot use such predictions to
accurately estimate changes in water status and fluxes in plants and soil. Agriculture
depends crucially on the ability to manipulate water within the soil-plant continuum.
Current estimates are that agriculture accounts for -70% of all human water use and that
crops exploit only -40% of the irrigation water deployed.
[0062]          Tight integration of sensing and irrigation, as part of precision agriculture,
promises significant improvements in water use efficiency, but its application has been
hindered by the lack of appropriate sensors and insufficient integration and interpretation
of their data streams. To respond to unprecedented pressures on our water resources from
growing world population and changing climate, better tools need to be developed with
which to monitor water in the environment.
[0063]          A number of fundamental         features  of the    soils and plants make
measurements of water status and flux difficult: (1) spatial variations in the properties of
the host matrices on both microscopic (e.g.. soil-root interface) and macroscopic (e.g..
variations through layers of soil) scales; (2) temporal variations clue to precipitation and
diurnal solar loading; (3) the common presence of water in multiple phases (vapor, liquid,
adsorbed on and absorbed within local matrices); (4) strongly non-linear and hysteretic
constitutive equations that relate chemical potential and permeability to water content; (5)
strong coupling to temperature and its gradients; and (6) the importance of states that are
below but near saturation with respect to water. These characteristics define strict criteria
                                              17

on the properties (dimensions, response times, accuracy,. and range) and modes of use
(simultaneous measurements of content, chemical potential. and temperature) of water
sensors for the soil-plant continuum. They also demand close integration with appropriate
mathematical models of both physical and biological phenomena.
[0064]          Embodiments of the present invention integrate microengineering and
physical chemistry of water, soil science and hydrology, and plant physiology and
horticulture to develop a complete sensing framework for water status and flux in soils and
plants. Disclosed herein is a miniature, multimodal sensor of water chemical potential.
water content, and temperature, the three critical variable that define the state of water in
soils and plants, The multimodal sensor may also be referred to throughout this disclosure
as a 'FOT-sensor.
[0065]           Water relations refer to the thermodynamics and dynamics of water and the
associated thermal transport processes. At the continuum scale (e.g., large compared to the
typical pore and cell dimension), three state variables are required to characterize these
relations fully. The first state variable is the chemical potential or water potential defined
as,    = ( t - po)/iTi [Pa], where v [J/mole] is the chemical potential of water in the phase
of interest, y, is for pure water at standard pressure (P) = 0. 1 MPa) and temperature (25
 C) (STP), and i, [m 3/mole] is the molar volume of liquid water at STP. Physically, the
water potential of a phase is the pressure relative to atmospheric in pure liquid in
equilibrium with that phase. The water potential provides the most generally useful
measure of the accessibility of water for chemical processes or physical exchange between
phases or matrices. It includes all contributions to the energetic state of water: gravity.
pressure, osmotic pressure, relative humidity, and interactions with solid matrices. The
second state variable is water content or volume fraction, a = V/(V, + Vm)            [ms/mv],
where V, and Vm. are the volumes of water and of matrix. Tracking 1 in space and time is
necessary to evaluate fluxes of water and thermal energy and to provide information on
the structure and composition of the soil or tissue (e.g., with respect to liquid and vapor
fractions). The third state variable is temperature, T [K]. Temperature influences material
properties, phase equilibria, and transport rates, and gradients of temperature drive fluxes
of both energy and water.
                                                18

[0066]          Among these variables,    T is the most valuable and the most challenging to
measure. Its usefulness stems from its generality as a quantification of water status. For
example, at the same water content, two different soil types can have radically different
water potentials: at 0 = 0.2 in clay, Tc ~ -0.01 MPa and in sandy loam, W ~ -1 MPa. For
the extraction of water by a plant via transpiration or by direct surface evaporation, it is the
values of T that matters. Thus. for the same water content, water in sandy loam is 100-fold
more accessible (thermodynamically) than in clay. Within a plant, T determines viability,
growth potential, yield, and quality of crop. The intrinsic challenges of measuring P stem
from its range of values in plants and soils (-103 > T > -10 MPa): 1) the values are
negative, representing sub-saturation. For example, the water potential of a unsaturated
vapor at STP, P = (RT/iii)ln( RH/100), where R is the ideal gas constant and RH is the
relative humidity; for RH < 100, T < 0. In most cases, these negative values cannot be
measured directly as mechanical pressures as is possible for bulk liquids flowing in pipes
and streams. 2) The range extends over four orders of magnitude, challenging the
resolution and accuracy of any single measurement technique. 3) While broad, this range
lies very close to saturation, corresponding in the vapor phase to 99.99 > RH > 93.0.
[0067]          The coupling of T, e. and T are crucial for understanding water relations
and present important challenges        for the design and operation of water sensors.
Experimental and theoretical treatments of water relations are often performed with an
assumption of isothermal conditions, despite recognition of the strong coupling of
temperature to the thermodynamics and transport of water, the daily occurrence of strong
temperature gradients (>> 10 0 C/m) within the soil and plants, and the importance of water
in plants and soils in defining the energy budget of the earth's surface. The coupling is
apparent in the complete equations for water and thermal energy shown in Table I in a
condensed form: gradients of temperature drive mass flow and gradients of water potential
drive heat flow (Equation 10). The cross-coupling (K., and K,) is particularly strong in
unsaturated porous media (typical of both soil and plant tissue) due to the large thermal
expansivity of the gas phase, temperature dependence of surface tension, and transport of
latent heat with evaporation and condensation. Numerical analysis of Equations 10 and 11
indicate that neglect of TP-T coupling can lead to large errors (10-50%) in predictions of
                                               19

flux and of spatial and temporal variations in T and T in both soils and plant tissues. In the
context of sensing T, the neglect of temperature effects can lead to significant errors.
                          Table 1: Non-isothermal water relations
                       ],= - p,( K,,VV
Flux:                                + K,,VT)             J       p,KVY - AVT)             (10)
                                                               OT
                             do                            Crot-= V -      Jq - ct         (
Conservation:             p"-    = V -   J" - S                at
                                                                          -  VT
[0068]          In the condensed equations shown in Table        1, the fluxes J. and J,. the
permeabilities K., K,,     and Kw.   and the thermal capacitance C,, contain contributions
from both the vapor and liquid phases. p. [kg/m 3 ] is the effective mass density of water in
both vapor and condensed phases (- liquid density, pl); S, [Lkg/m 3/s] is the volumetric sink
representing water uptake by roots in soil; C,0 t [J/K/m 3] is total heat capacity due to all
phases; J, [kg/m2/s] is the flux of water in both the liquid and vapor phases, J, [W/m 2] is
the heat flux due to conduction, convection (ignoring vapor sensible heat), and phase
change; ct [J/kg] is the heat capacity of liquid water; K., [m/s/Pa] is the generalized Darcy
permeability that accounts for transport in both the liquid and vapor phases; KL, [mJ/K/s]
is the thermodiffusion coefficient; K,      [m/kg/s] captures thermal transport with phase
change and thermally induced mass flows; and, A [W/in/K] is the global thermal
conductivity due to all phases.
[0069]          Further coupling of    T, e. and T enters through the constitutive relations
that are required to solve Eqs. 10 and 11: the P - and T-dependence of 0, K.,      K,,, Ku,, A,
S, and C,,. The measurement of the water retention curve,        (T, T) and the permeability,
K,,(T,T) as a function of soil type and plant species represents a ubiquitous, fundamental
and challenging component of hydrology, plant physiology, and related applied fields.
These functions are strongly non-linear (e.g., 0 ~ In(-T) in most soils), hysteretic, and, in
the context of plants, coupled to complex biological responses. The other relations are less
                                               20

well characterized due to the lack of appropriate tools in the lab and field: the forms for
the conductivities, Ka, K,        and A, and the capacitance, Ct      have reasonably strong
theoretical basis, but have been rarely measured; forms for the water uptake by plants, S.
have a weak theoretical basis informed by only a few direct experiments.
[0070]          Thus, important deficiencies exist in the understanding of water relations in
soils and plants and in the ability to characterize them experimentally and exploit them in
the field. The integrated sensing framework for T, 6, and T disclosed herein may provide
a revolutionary new tool set with which to tackle both fundamental and practical
challenges in this domain.
[0071]          Turning now to FIGS. 10 and 11, wherein like numerals indicate like
elements from FIGS. 1-9, shown is an integrated multimodal sensor 300 for measuring
water potential T, water content    6. and temperature T according to one embodiment of the
present invention. FIG. 10 depicts a cross-sectional illustration of sensor 300, and FIG.  I1
depicts a top view. The multimodal sensor 300 includes a microtensiometer as disclosed
hereinabove adapted to measure water potential      T. That is. the microtensiometer includes
an upper layer 330 formed of silicon substrate, a lower layer 332 formed of borosilicate
glass, a sealed internal liquid reservoir 314, and a porous membrane 316 disposed between
the upper layer 330 and lower layer 332. The porous membrane 316 is in fluid contact
with the liquid reservoir 314 and extends to an outside edge of the microtensiometer. The
microtensiometer 310 further includes a diaphragm-based pressure transducer 324 that
measures the internal hydrostatic pressure of water in the reservoir 314. A pressure
difference across the diaphragm 322 causes it to deflect, and the resulting strain is
measured through four doped polysilicon piezoresistors placed atop the circular diaphragm
in a Wheatstone bridge configuration.
[0072]          The multimodal sensor 300 further includes a thin film platinum resistance
thermometer 342 to provide temperature data. For the range of temperatures relevant in
soils and plants (-0-40      C), platinum resistance thermometers (PRTs) with four-point
probe measurement are generally considered to be most accurate (AT ~ 0.01 K) when
calibrated. PRTs can also be formed in a single lithographic step. In one embodiment,
                                               21

chip-on-film electrical connections 376 may connect the leads 338 to the Wheatstone
bridge 324 and platinum resistance thermometer 342 using on anisotropic conductive
adhesive (ACA) 378 for electrical bonding and lithographically patterned copper-on
poly(imide) film 380 for wiring. This strategy adds minimally to the thickness and
improves stability of bridge measurements with respect to both mechanics and drift.
Further, the conductive contact through the ACA film is automatically insulated by the
surrounding, nonconductive epoxy.
[0073]          In another embodiment, conventional wire bonding to printed circuit board
and potting in a water-resistant epoxy may be utilized. However, this alternative will
increase the thickness by -0.5 mm.
[0074]          The multimodal sensor 300 may further include a semi-permeable sheath
382 or vent comprising a hydrophobic highly crystalline polytetrafluoroethylene polymer
which has a microstructure characterized by nodes interconnected by fibrils. In one
example, the polytetrafluoroethylene polymer is a GORE-TEX* membrane available from
W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc. The GORE-TEX* sheath 382 may be formed and secured
to the surface of the microtensiometer sensor by a silicon adhesive backing, for example,
providing a tight, sealed envelope around the sensor 300.
[0075]          In one embodiment, the pores in the sheath 382 are approximately 0.02
micrometers to 10 micrometers in size, which is about 20,000 times smaller than a water
droplet. but 700 times larger than a water vapor molecule. The hydrophobic membrane
will provide a vapor space of well-defined thickness between the edge of the membrane
and the outside environment. This gap allows for equilibration of water while preventing
equilibration of free solutes that may exist in the external environment to enter the device.
One advantage to this embodiment is that the hydrophobic, microporous structure will
resist the entry of aqueous solutions up to pressure differences of 0.6 bar (0.06 MPa) while
allowing for vapor exchange. In some embodiments, the sheath 382 includes a protective
layer of nylon fabric (not shown). In other embodiments, the sheath 382 may be formed of
hydrophobized, porous ceramics or reverse osmotic membrane with low molecular weight
cut-off.
                                              22

[0076]            The multimodal sensor 300 may further include an integrated water content
sensor 384. In one embodiment, a thin-film wave guide may be formed between laminated
layers of poly(imide) for time-domain reflectometry (TDR). Time-domain reflectometry
excites a pair or an array of parallel electrodes ("waveguides" with an AC electrical pulse
in the GHz range and measures the time delay for the reflection of this pulse. With the
electrodes embedded in the medium of interest, the time delay, At ~ 2L Vi /c, where L
[m] is the length of the electrodes, -r is the relative dielectric permittivity of the medium,
and c [m/s] is the speed of light. Given the large dielectric permittivity of water (Er = 80)
relative to that of the solid components of soils and plant tissue (E,          - 4), At varies
significantly with water content, allowing for an accuracy, AO ~ 2% across the full range
of 0- in the soil or tissue.
[00771             As shown in FIG. 10, a custom waveguide 384 may be integrated with the
microtensiometer 310 and platinum resistance temperature sensor 342 and with existing
TDR acquisition equipment, such as Campbell Sci. TDR100. Turning to FIG. 12, in one
embodiment of the invention the waveguide 384 may be formed by lithographically
patterning copper 386 on a flexible laminate 388. In one example, the waveguide may be
formed with DuPont's Pyralux TK copper-clad films and bonding layers. The film system,
which contains fluoropolymer, will encapsulate the waveguides between thin layers with
low dielectric constant (c, -2.3),      low water adsorption (0.6% by mass), and good
environmental stability. The package will separate the waveguide 384 from the external
medium with -50 pm of film. In one example, the electrode separation ) is ~ 500 pm, and
the pair of electrodes are designed to have a total length L > 10 cm for an expected
accuracy A0      -  ±0.02 mm 3 . The flexible TDR waveguide 384 may be adhered to the
backside of the assembly as illustrated in FIG. 10.
[0078]            FIG. 13 depicts a cross sectional view of the microtensiometer 310 shown
in FIG. 9, and FIG. 14 depicts a bottom view of the sensor 310 looking through the
borosilicate glass 332. The multimodal sensor 300 may further include an array of
channels 390 patterned into the upper layer 330 and/or lower layer 332 to increase the
permeability of the membrane 316 without             changing the global dimensions of the
sensor. That is, the channels 390 partially10 bridge the distance from the reservoir to
                                               23

the edge of the sensor to reduce the distance water travels through the porous silicon
without adding significant internal volume. In one example, depicted in FIG. 13. the array
of channels 390 are etched in the bottom side of the silicon wafer 330 to the same depth
(and in the same step) as the reservoir 314 for the liquid. These channels 390 are closed at
either end: they do not reach either the edge of the sensor or the liquid reservoir 314. The
regions 392a of membrane 3 16 that separate the channels 390 from the edge ensure that
air does not penetrate the channels. The regions 392b of membrane 316 that separate the
channels from the reservoir ensure that any air of vapor that emerges in a channel due to
cavitation (boiling) does not enter the reservoir and disrupt operation of the device.
[0079]          In another aspect of the invention, a procedure is described to calibrate the
TDR waveguide 384 and further described is a new technique for measuring water
retention curves ex situ. While reasonable correlations exist for the dielectric response of a
number of soil types, none exist for plant tissue and better accuracy is achieved when TDR
probes are calibrated with the material of interest. FIG. 15 depicts a system that can be
used to gravirnetrically calibrate the thin-film waveguides 384 integrated in the disclosed
multimodal sensor as a function of temperature and water content. A multimodal sensor
300 can be fixed on the floor of a thermostated container    1100 beneath a thin layer of the
sample of interest (S) (e.g.. soil or explanted tissue). The entire system will sit on a
balance 1102 (1 kg capacity, ±1 mg). A rigid metal mesh may compress the sample
slightly. The sample (S) may be fully wetted initially and allowed to dry into the ambient
air. For most materials of interest, the heat and mass transfer from a thin sample (< 1 cm)
should be strongly limited by the natural convection in the air, such that gradients in the
sample will be weak. In a period of a few days, the thin samples will lose almost all water
in a typical dry laboratory environment. For dry mass, the sample will be oven dried (105
'C for 24 hours) and weighed again. With continuous measurements of mass and TDR
time delay, a calibration curve, At(.T) can be constructed. Importantly, with the
continuous measurements of mass and water potential, an isothermal water retention curve
for the sample, 0(11',T) may be constructed across an unprecedented range. This
experiment, enabled by the multimodal sensor 300, has the potential to become a new
standard for measuring water retention ex situ (and sorption analysis more generally), as
no existing technique provides equivalent range or simplicity. The impact that potential
                                               24

deformation or cracking of the sample might have on At(QT) and                O('P,T) can be
characterized, and compared to the O(') measured on a pressure plate extractor (soil) and
point measurements from a chilled mirror hygrometer (plant tissue). With cycles of
rewetting, this system can be used to characterize the secondary wetting curves
(hysteresis).
[0080]           In another    aspect of the      invention, appropriate packaging    for the
multimodal sensors and methods of insertion into soil may be developed working with
packed soil columns. The water relations of a soil, especially in the wet regime. are known
to be sensitive to mechanical disruption. In one packaging example, the sensor may be
clamped in a frame formed of stainless steel rods such that both the TDR waveguide and
the tensiometer membrane are exposed to the surrounding medium. The rigid frame may
have a tapered tip. In calibrated soils representing a range of hydraulic and mechanical
properties (e.g., sand, sandy loam, silt loam), multiple probes may be inserted to the same
depth (e.g., 4 cm) using different strategies (e.g., from most to least disruptive). For
example, 1) placement in a large bore with repacking around the probe, 2) insertion into a
narrow slit opened with a flat rod of dimension similar to that of probe, and 3) direct
insertion of probe with no guide hole. The vertical insertion may first be characterized, as
this orientation is favored with conventional TDR to avoid artifacts due to hindered
transport along the vertical axis by the probe. The least disruptive technique may then be
selected that can be performed reliably without damaging the probe.
[0081]           Despite having been proposed over sixty years ago, the governing
principles of water relations in soils remain unchallenged by complete experiments, in
particular tinder non-isothermal conditions. The disclosed multimodal sensor may be
exploited to provide a rigorous experimental examination of water relations in soils and
lay the foundation for its use in the field. The Wind evaporation method that provides
access to near-isothermal water relations in the highly saturated limit (and is traditionally
run with conventional tensiometers, no thermal loading, and no forced convection over the
soil) may be expanded upon. The experiments may allow the methods to mature in a
context that is directly translatable to the field. Moreover, the experiments may provide the
first experimental characterizations of water relations deep into the unsaturated, non
                                                25

isothermal regime that dominates in surface layers of exposed soils in arid climates and
under draught conditions. For example, experiments may be conducted in three soils that
span a range of permeabilities and water retention properties (e.g., sand, sandy loam, silt
loam). Water retention curves may be established and the TDR may be calibrated with
those soils prior to these experiments. FIGS. 16 and 17 show the experimental system with
multimodal sensors SI-S4 deployed at four depths in an insulated column 1104 that is
thermally regulated (To) and fed at its base. Soil samples 1106 can be characterized in the
lab with respect to both equilibrium (e.g., water retention curves) and non-equilibrium
(e.g., hydraulic permeability and thermal conductivity) properties. These probes and this
application can also benefit from the inclusion of the thin film TDR. Evaporation occurs
with or without radiative forcing and forced convection. Surface temperature, Tg is
measured remotely with an IR thermometer 1108: base temperature, TO is controlled by a
controller I110. Forced convection in the air above the column can be used with a heat
lamp to tune the evaporative potential and generate large thermal gradients (i.e., T, - To =
 10 'C. The process can be run to water potentials of at least -10 MPa or until steady state
conditions are achieved. Measurements of P can be tested against chilled mirror dew point
with samples extracted at the end of the experiment. This system can be exploited to
extract time-dependent profiles of P, 0 T and fluxes of heat and mass. With these data
that cover an unprecedented range of conditions, the parameterizations of the 2DHydrus
numerical package can mature and adapt its protocols for parameter estimation.
Alternative fitting procedures can be used (e.g., based on splines) to handle strong non
linearity in the unsaturated regime, if necessary. Using fits from sub-sets of the data. the
minimal number of probes necessary to generate accurate water relations can be identified.
In a second stage, the time-dependent forcing (diurnal thermal loading and precipitation)
can be simulated and the multi-dimensional gradients that will be encountered in field
conditions.
[00821          FIGS. 18 and 19 illustrate a method to embed the microtensiometer with
integrated PRT within the xylemn    tissue 1112 of the stem of a plant for complete plant
water relations, in silu. In one example, embedding strategies can be developed in cut
branches of woody plants with typical diameter of 2-3 cm. As illustrated in FIG. 18, the
multimodal sensors 300 can be embedded with the thin axis orthogonal to the axis of the
                                             26

xylem vessels. This orientation will minimize the obstruction of vessels by the probe.
Further, preliminary studies embedding dummy probes (plastic pieces with the dimensions
of the microtensiometer) in grape vines in the field indicated that this orientation led to
less scarring (-100 pm-thick scar) than other orientations. A guide slit can be cut with a
razor blade and opened gently with a chisel blade to accommodate the multimodal sensor
snuggly, with the body of the sensor completely beneath the level of the bark. The opening
around the wires can be sealed with pruning sealing putty 1114.
[0083]          Despite extensive research, significant uncertainty remains relating to the
conductive properties of xylem tissue. For example, this uncertainty relates to the
prevalence of and response to cavitation events in the presence of water stress, the
importance of water content versus water potential in defining conductance, and the
change in xylem conductance with changing composition of the sap. Recent work raises
important doubts about the interpretation of the most commonly used, ex situ experimental
methods. This uncertainty also compromises work in soil hydrology by propagating into
the water uptake of roots.
[0084]          The multimodal sensor disclosed herein will allow development of methods
to address these questions with simultaneous, multi-point measurements, in situ. The
laboratory experiments described herein may lay a foundation of field-ready methods by
making use of portable logging instrumentation.
[0085]          FIG. 19 illustrates a method to measure the conductance of the xylem tissue
in an excised stem of a plant. Shown is an axial cross-section of stem segment 1116 with
two multimodal sensors 300 embedded at different axial positions and one embedded sap
flow meter I I 8 between them. In one example, the stem segment is a cut branch of
poplar having a range of water potential equal to 0 to -3 MPa. A water retention curve may
be established and the the TDR calibrated with poplar tissue prior to the experiments.
Commercial sap flow sensors provide moderate resolution of sap flux (~±2 g/m 2/s or
±10%) based on measuring convective transfer of a heat pulse. A pressure-driven flow of
aqueous solution   1120 with fixed water potential ('s) and temperature (T,) (tuned with
osmotic content) or gas at controlled relative humidity can be driven through the branch.
                                              27

The total liquid flow can be collected and measured on a balance 1122. With this system, the
response of both the tensiometer and the TDR with respect to the resolution (in time and
magnitude) of water potential in the xylem vessels and water content in the surrounding tissue can
be characterized. The impact of temperature gradients between the sap and the tissue can also be
characterized; such gradients are expected on hot days as cool water from the soil moves up the
plant. In combination with the sap flow readings, optimal procedures for extracting conductivities
(ATP12 /.  where AI 12 is read between the two sensors) can be established. This unprecedented
capability to reexamine questions of the dependence of conductance on the ionic composition of
sap and on degree of embolization (gas filled vessels due to cavitation) can be exploited.
 10086]          While the present invention has been described with reference to a number of
specific embodiments, it will be understood that the true spirit and scope of the invention should
be determined only with respect to claims that can be supported by the present specification.
Further, while in numerous cases herein wherein systems and apparatuses and methods are
described as having a certain number of elements it will be understood that such systems,
apparatuses and methods can be practiced with fewer than the mentioned certain number of
elements. Also, while a number of particular embodiments have been described, it will be
understood that features and aspects that have been described with reference to each particular
embodiment can be used with each remaining particularly described embodiment.
 100871          The present disclosure includes, but is not limited to, the following features:
 100881          Feature 1:- A microtensiometer, comprising: a sensor body comprising a first gas
impermeable layer and an opposing second gas-impermeable layer, the sensor body defining a
sealed internal liquid reservoir; a porous membrane layer disposed between the first and second
gas-impermeable layers and in fluid contact with the liquid reservoir, the membrane layer
extending to an outside edge of the microtensiometer, the membrane layer defining a plurality of
through pores, the pores providing an open path from the liquid reservoir to the outside edge of
the microtensiometer, the pores having a maximum diameter of 3 millimeters; and a sensor
adapted to measure changes in pressure between the liquid reservoir and an outside environment.
 10089]          Feature 2:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the first gas
impermeable layer is formed of silicon substrate.
                                                 28

10090]            Feature 3:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the second gas
impermeable layer is formed of borosilicate glass.
10091]            Feature 4:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the internal
liquid reservoir is formed in first layer.
10092]            Feature 5:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the porous
membrane layer is formed of porous silicon.
10093]            Feature 6:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the porous
membrane layer is anodically-bonded to the second gas-impermeable layer.
10094]            Feature 7:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the pores have a
pore size distribution of 1 -20 nm.
10095]            Feature 8:- The microtensiometer according to feature 7, wherein the pores have a
pore size distribution of 1-6 nm.
10096]            Feature 9:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, wherein the pores have a
maximum diameter of 0.3 millimeters.
100971            Feature 10:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, further comprising a
flexible diaphragm adapted to deflect in response to changes in pressure of the liquid reservoir, the
sensor being coupled to the diaphragm and adapted to measure the strain resulting from the
deflection.
10098]            Feature 11:- The microtensiometer according to feature 10, wherein the sensor
comprises polysilicon piezoresistors arranged in a Wheatstone bridge.
10099]            Feature   12:-  The microtensiometer   according to feature      10, wherein the
diaphragm is integral with the first gas-impermeable layer.
10100]            Feature 13:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, further comprising an
integrated thin- film platinum resistance thermometer.
                                                29

 10101]           Feature 14:- The microtensiometer according to feature 1, further comprising a
plurality of internal channels adjacent the porous membrane layer, the channels extending between
but exclusive of the liquid reservoir and the outside edge of the microtensiometer.
 10102]           Feature 15:- The microtensiometer according to feature 14, wherein the internal
channels are formed in the first gas-impermeable layer.
 10103]           Feature 16:- A multimodal sensor, comprising: a microtensiometer adapted to
measure chemical potential of a sub-saturated liquid, the microtensiometer comprising a sensor
body, the body comprising a first gas-impermeable layer and an opposing second gas
impermeable layer, the sensor body defining a sealed internal liquid reservoir; a porous membrane
layer disposed between the first and second gas-impermeable layers and in fluid contact with the
liquid reservoir, the membrane layer extending to an outside edge of the microtensiometer, the
membrane layer defining a plurality of through pores, the pores providing an open path from the
liquid reservoir to the outside edge of the microtensiometer, the pores having a maximum
diameter of 3 millimeters; and a sensor adapted to measure changes in pressure of the liquid
reservoir; a temperature sensor integrated onto the microtensiometer body; and a water content
sensor coupled to the microtensiometer body.
 10104]           Feature 17:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 16, further comprising a
semipermeable sheath adapted to provide a defined vapor space between the outside edge of the
porous membrane layer and the outside environment.
 10105]           Feature 18:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 17, wherein the semi
permeable sheath comprises pores sized approximately 0.02 micrometers to 10 micrometers in
size.
 10106]           Feature 19:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 16, further comprising a
chip-on-film electrical connection to a sensor lead wire.
 101071           Feature 20:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 19, wherein the chip-on
film electrical connection comprises lithographically patterned copper-on-poly (imide) film
bonded to the sensor lead wire by anisotropic conductive adhesive.
                                                  30

 101081          Feature 21:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 16, wherein the water
content sensor comprises a thin-film wave guide for time-domain reflectometry.
 10109]          Feature 22:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 21, wherein the thin film
wave guide comprises lithographically patterned copper on a flexible laminate.
 10110]          Feature 23:- The multimodal sensor according to feature 16, wherein the
microtensiometer further comprises a plurality of internal channels adjacent the porous membrane
layer, the channels extending between but exclusive of the liquid reservoir and the outside edge of
the microtensiometer.
                                                31

CLAIMS:
 1.      A device for measuring a chemical potential of a fluid in a plant tissue, said device
comprising:
         a cavity disposed within a sensor body as a liquid reservoir, said cavity configured for
containing therein a liquid, said cavity comprising at least one opening;
         at least two porous membrane layers positioned at least in part over said at least one
opening of said cavity for selectively allowing water transfer between the plant fluid and the liquid
in the cavity; and
         at least one pressure sensor configured for detecting changes in pressure of the liquid in
said cavity, said changes are related to a chemical potential of the fluid in the plant tissue.
2.       The device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said at least two porous
membrane layers comprises a reverse osmotic membrane or a nanoporous membrane.
3.       The device according to claim 1, wherein said at least one pressure sensor comprises at
least one piezoelectric transducer sensor or at least one strain gauge sensor.
4.       The device according to claim 1, wherein said device comprises a Micro Electro
Mechanical System (MEMS).
5.       The device according to claim 1, wherein said cavity is configured for being hydraulically
connected to a vascular conduit of the plant, via a space of the plant tissue, wherein said chemical
potential comprises a measurement of plant sap water conducted through said vascular conduit.
6.       The device according to claim 1, wherein said cavity comprises a flattened shape forming
a cavity for containing the liquid therein and a single opening, wherein said at least two porous
membrane layers are located over said opening of said cavity at an internal or external side
thereof.
7.       The device according to claim 1, further comprising a borosilicate glass disposed at least
in part between said at least two porous membrane layers.
                                                  32

8.        The device according to claim 1, wherein said cavity is configured such that there is a
direct contact between the plant fluid and the liquid therein said cavity, via said at least two
porous membrane layers
9.       A method for measuring fluid potential in a plant tissue, said method comprising the steps
of:
         providing a device for measuring a chemical potential of a fluid in a plant tissue, said
device comprising: a cavity disposed in a sensor body as a liquid reservoir, said cavity configured
for containing therein a liquid, said cavity comprising at least one opening, at least two porous
membrane layers positioned at least over said at least one opening of said cavity for selectively
allowing water transfer between the plant fluid and the liquid in the cavity, and at least one
pressure sensor configured for detecting changes in pressure of the liquid in said cavity, said
changes related to a chemical potential of the fluid in the plant tissue;
         placing at least part of said measuring device inside the plant, wherein said at least two
porous membrane layers are configured to selectively allow transfer of water therethrough, while
blocking transfer of other ingredients in the plant fluid;
          sensing changes in pressure caused due to an osmotic based flow of fluids into or out of
said cavity caused to equilibrate the chemical potential of the plant tissue fluid and the liquid in
the cavity; and
          outputting pressure sensor data indicative of the sensed pressure, said changes related to
the fluid potential of the plant tissue.
 10.      The method according to claim 9, further comprising the steps of:
          a) receiving outputted sensor data from said at least one pressure sensor; and
         b) calculating the fluid potential in said plant according to the sensed pressure.
 11.      The method according to claim 9, wherein said measuring device is placed in proximity to
at least one vascular conduit of the plant or is inserted to the tissue of a stem of the plant.
 12.      The method according to claim 9, wherein said cavity is configured such that there is a
direct contact between the plant fluid and the liquid therein said cavity, via said at least two
porous membrane layers.
                                                    33

13.     The method according to claim 9, wherein said measuring device creates a liquid
continuum with the plant tissue.
CORNELL UNIVERSITY
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P41342AU01
                                          34

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
