1002001724
           DEVICE, METHOD, AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR
                     SYNCHRONIZING TWO OR MORE DISPLAYS
                                           ABSTRACT
A device displays a first user interface on a first display, including a plurality of objects
and corresponding to a second user interface on a second display. While a first object is
displayed as a selected object in the second user interface, the device: detects a first input
requesting information about a second object; and in response to detecting the first input,
displays information about the second object in the first user interface and maintains
display of the first object as the selected object in the second user interface. After
displaying the information, the device detects a second input selecting the second object. In
response to detecting selection of the second input, the device: displays the second object
as the selected object in the first user interface; and provides, to the second display,
information that enables the second user interface to display the second object as the
selected object.

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
         DEVICE, METHOD, AND GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE FOR
                    SYNCHRONIZING TWO OR MORE DISPLAYS
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application is related to the following applications: U.S. Provisional
Application Serial No. 61/793,924, filed March 15, 2013, entitled "Voice and Touch User
Interface"; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/032,614, filed February 22, 2011, entitled
Pushing a Graphical User Interface to a Remote Device with Display Rules Provided by
the Remote Device"; U.S. Application Serial No. 12/683,218, filed January 6, 2010,
entitled "Pushing a User Interface to a Remote Device"; U.S. Application Serial No.
 12/119,960, filed May 13, 2008, entitled "Pushing a User Interface to a Remote Device";
U.S. Application Serial No. 13/175,58 1, filed July 1, 2011, entitled "Pushing a User
Interface to a Remote Device"; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/161,339, filed June 15,
2011, entitled -Pushing a Graphical User Interface to a Remote Device with Display Rules
Provided by the Remote Device"; U.S. Application Serial No. 13/250,947, filed
September 30, 2011, entitled "Automatically Adapting User Interfaces for Hands-Free
Interaction"; U.S. Application Serial No. 12/987,982, filed January 10, 2011, entitled
"Intelligent Automated Assistant"; U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/295,774,
filed January 18, 2010, entitled "Intelligent Automated Assistant"; U.S. Provisional
Application Serial No. 61/493,201, filed June 3, 2011, entitled "Generating and
Processing Data Items that Represent Tasks to Perform"; U.S. Provisional Application
Serial No. 61/657,744, filed June 9, 2012, entitled "Automatically Adapting User
Interface for Hands-Free Interaction"; U.S. Application Serial No. 12/207,316, filed
September 9, 2008, entitled "Radio with Personal DJ"; U.S. Provisional Application
Serial No. 61/727,554, filed November 16, 2012, entitled "System and Method for
Negotiating Control of a Shared Audio or Visual Resource"; U.S. Application Serial No.
61/832,818, filed June 8, 2013, entitled "Mapping Application with Several User
Interfaces,"; U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/832,841, filed June 8, 2013,
entitled "Device and Method for Generating User Interfaces from a Template,"; U.S.
Application Serial No. 13/913,428, filed June 8, 2013, entitled "Application Gateway for
Providing Different User Interfaces for Limited Distraction and Non-Limited Distraction
Contexts," which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                                 1

1002001724
[0001a]      Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2014/040415
(published as WO 2014/197339), filed on 30 May 2014.
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]       This relates generally to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces,
including but not limited to electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces that
synchronize two or more displays.
                                        BACKGROUND
[0003]       The use of touch-sensitive surfaces as input devices for computers and other
electronic computing devices has increased significantly in recent years. Exemplary touch
sensitive surfaces include touch pads and touch screen displays. Such surfaces are widely
used to manipulate user interface objects on a first display associated with first electronic
device.
[0004]       Exemplary manipulations include adjusting the position and/or size of one or
more user interface objects or activating buttons or opening files/applications represented
by user interface objects or otherwise manipulating user interfaces. Exemplary user
interface objects include digital images, video, text, icons, control elements such as buttons
and other graphics.
[0005]       Sometimes users have access to multiple different displays that are capable of
displaying different content. For example, a passenger in a car or other vehicle may have
access to a smart phone and its display, as well as access to a car information/entertainment
system and its display(s). But when multiple different displays are available, methods for
displaying content on these different displays are cumbersome and inefficient. For
example, displaying the same information on the different displays generally does not
provide any useful additional information to the user, while displaying unrelated
information on the different displays can be confusing and inefficient for the user and
sometime causes the user to spend extra time keeping relevant content displayed on both
devices. In addition, these methods take longer than necessary, thereby wasting energy.
This latter consideration is particularly important in battery-operated devices.
[0005a]      Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the
                                                2

1002001724
common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be
expected to be understood, regarded as relevant and/or combined with other pieces of prior
art by a person skilled in the art.
                                           SUMMARY
[0006]       Accordingly, there is a need for electronic devices with more efficient methods
and interfaces for synchronizing two or more displays. Such methods and interfaces
optionally complement or replace conventional methods for displaying information on two
or more displays. Such methods and interfaces reduce the cognitive burden on a user and
produce a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery- operated devices, such
methods and interfaces conserve power and increase the time between battery charges.
[00071       Additionally, in many situations controls for use in interacting with such user
interfaces displayed on the displays are often rigidly associated with a single display. This
limits the flexibility of the controls, which can result in an inefficient user interface.
Accordingly, there is a need for a system that seamlessly maps controls and other input
sources to user interfaces displayed on different displays in a flexible manner. However,
when mapping different controls to different displays, it would be easy to mistakenly
associate a control with the wrong display. Moreover, taking a long time to determine
which display is associated with a particular control would introduce a delay into the user's
interactions with the user interface that would degrade the user experience. As such, there
is a need for a fast, accurate and efficient system and method for mapping controls and
other input sources to different displays of the two or more displays.
[0008]       The above deficiencies and other problems associated with user interfaces for
electronic devices with touch-sensitive surfaces are reduced or eliminated by the disclosed
devices. In some embodiments, the device is a desktop computer. In some embodiments,
the device is portable (e.g., a notebook computer, tablet computer, or handheld device). In
some embodiments, the device has a touchpad. In some embodiments, the device has a
touch-sensitive display (also known as a "touch screen" or "touch screen display"). In some
embodiments, the device has a graphical user interface (GUI), one or more processors,
memory and one or more modules, programs or sets of instructions stored in the memory
for performing multiple functions. In some embodiments, the user interacts with the GUI
primarily through finger contacts and gestures on the touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the functions optionally include image editing, drawing, presenting, word
processing, website creating, disk authoring, spreadsheet making, game playing,
                                                 3

1002001724
telephoning, video conferencing, e-mailing, instant messaging, workout support, digital
photographing, digital videoing, web browsing, digital music playing, and/or digital video
playing. Executable instructions for performing these functions are, optionally, included in
a non-transitory computer readable storage medium or other computer program product
configured for execution by one or more processors.
[0008a]       According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method,
comprising: at an electronic device that is in communication with a plurality of displays
that include a first display and a second display; receiving first input information that is
indicative of a first input detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources,
wherein the first input information includes: a first identifier for the first input source; and
a first input description that describes the first input; selecting a first affected display from
the plurality of displays based on the first identifier and an input-source mapping that maps
input sources to corresponding displays; and sending, to the first affected display, update
information that enables the first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first
input.
[0008b]       According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided an electronic
device, comprising: a communications interface for communicating with a plurality of
displays that include a first display and a second display; one or more processors; memory;
and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory
and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for: receiving first input information that is indicative of a first input
detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources, wherein the first input
information includes: a first identifier for the first input source; and a first input description
that describes the first input; selecting a first affected display from the plurality of displays
based on the first identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to
corresponding displays; and sending, to the first affected display, update information that
enables the first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
[0008c]       According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a computer
readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs
comprising instructions, which when executed by an electronic device that is in
communication with a plurality of displays that include a first display and a second
display, cause the device to: receive first input information that is indicative of a first input
detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources, wherein the first input
information includes: a first identifier for the first input source; and a first input description
                                                  3a

1002001724
that describes the first input; select a first affected display from the plurality of displays
based on the first identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to
corresponding displays; and send, to the first affected display, update information that
enables the first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
[0008d]       According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a graphical user
interface on a electronic device that is in communication with a plurality of displays that
include a first display and a second display, includes a display, a memory, and one or more
processors to execute one or more programs stored in the memory, the graphical user
interface comprising: a user interface; wherein: first input information that is indicative of
a first input detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources is received by the
device, wherein the first input information includes: a first identifier for the first input
source; and a first input description that describes the first input; a first affected display
from the plurality of displays is selected based on the first identifier and an input-source
mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays; and update information is sent
to the first affected display that enables the first affected display to be updated in
accordance with the first input.
[0008e]       According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided an electronic
device that is in communication with a plurality of displays that include a first display and
a second display, the device comprising: means for receiving first input information that is
indicative of a first input detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources,
wherein the first input information includes: a first identifier for the first input source; and
a first input description that describes the first input; means for selecting a first affected
display from the plurality of displays based on the first identifier and an input-source
mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays; and means for sending, to the
first affected display, update information that enables the first affected display to be
updated in accordance with the first input.
[0009]        In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a first
electronic device that includes a first display. The method includes: displaying a first user
                                                  3b

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
interface on the first display, where: the first user interface enables selection between a
plurality of selectable objects; the first user interface corresponds to a second user
interface displayed on a second display different from the first display; and a first object
from the plurality of selectable objects is displayed as a selected object in the second user
interface. While the first object is displayed as the selected object in the second user
interface, the method includes: detecting a first input from a user that corresponds to a
request to display information about a second object in the plurality of selectable objects
in the first user interface; in response to detecting the first input, updating the first user
interface on the first display in accordance with the first input to display respective
information about the second object while display of the first object as the selected object
in the second user interface is maintained; and after updating the first user interface in
accordance with the first input, detecting a second input from a user that corresponds to a
request to select the second object as the selected object. In response to detecting the
second input, the method further includes: updating the first user interface on the first
display in accordance with the second input to display the second object as the selected
object; and providing, to the second display, information that enables the second user
interface on the second display to be updated to display the second object as the selected
object instead of the first object.
[0010]       In accordance with some embodiments, a first electronic device includes a first
display unit configured to display a first user interface on the first display unit, where: the
first user interface enables selection between a plurality of selectable objects; the first user
interface corresponds to a second user interface displayed on a second display unit
different from the first display unit; and a first object from the plurality of selectable
objects is displayed as a selected object in the second user interface. The first electronic
device also includes a processing unit coupled to the first display unit. While the first
object is displayed as the selected object in the second user interface, the processing unit
is configured to: detect a first input from a user that corresponds to a request to enable
display of information about a second object in the plurality of selectable objects in the
first user interface; in response to detecting the first input, update the first user interface
on the first display unit in accordance with the first input to enable display of respective
information about the second object while display of the first object as the selected object
in the second user interface is maintained; and after updating the first user interface in
accordance with the first input, detect a second input from a user that corresponds to a
                                                  4

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
request to select the second object as the selected object. In response to detecting the
second input, the processing unit is further configured to: update the first user interface on
the first display unit in accordance with the second input to enable display of the second
object as the selected object; and provide, to the second display unit, information that
enables the second user interface on the second display unit to be updated to enable
display of the second object as the selected object instead of the first object.
[0011]       In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a portable
electronic device that includes a portable-device display and is in communication with a
vehicle display of a vehicle. The method includes: obtaining a set of map search results
that includes a plurality of candidate destinations; displaying a portable-device navigation
interface on the portable-device display, where the portable-device navigation interface
enables selection of a destination from the plurality of candidate destinations; and sending
information to the vehicle display that enables the vehicle display to display a vehicle
navigation interface, where a first destination of the plurality of candidate destinations is a
selected destination in the vehicle navigation interface. While the first destination is the
selected destination in the vehicle navigation interface, the method includes: detecting a
first input from a user that corresponds to a request to display information about one or
more candidate destinations in the plurality of candidate destinations other than the first
destination; in response to detecting the first input, updating the portable-device
navigation interface on the portable-device display in accordance with the first input
without the vehicle navigation interface on the vehicle display being updated; and after
updating the portable-device navigation interface in accordance with the first input,
detecting a second input from a user that corresponds to a request to select a second
destination in the plurality of candidate destinations as the selected destination. In
response to detecting the second input, the method further includes: updating the portable
device navigation interface on the portable-device display in accordance with the second
input to display the second destination as the selected destination; and sending
information to the vehicle display that enables the vehicle display to update the vehicle
navigation interface in accordance with the second input to display the second destination
as the selected destination.
[0012]       In accordance with some embodiments, a portable electronic device includes a
portable-device display unit configured to display a portable-device navigation interface, a
communications interface unit configured to communicate with a vehicle display unit of a
                                                 5

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
vehicle, and a processing unit coupled to the portable-device display unit and the
communications interface unit. The processing unit is configured to: obtain a set of map
search results that includes a plurality of candidate destinations; enable display of the
portable-device navigation interface on the portable-device display unit, where the
portable- device navigation interface enables selection of a destination from the plurality
of candidate destinations; and send information to the vehicle display unit that enables the
vehicle display unit to enable display of the vehicle navigation interface, where a first
destination of the plurality of candidate destinations is a selected destination in the vehicle
navigation interface. While the first destination is the selected destination in the vehicle
navigation interface, the processing unit is also configured to: detect a first input from a
user that corresponds to a request to enable display of information about one or more
candidate destinations in the plurality of candidate destinations other than the first
destination; in response to detecting the first input, update the portable-device navigation
interface on the portable-device display unit in accordance with the first input without the
vehicle navigation interface on the vehicle display unit being updated; and after updating
the portable-device navigation interface in accordance with the first input, detect a second
input from a user that corresponds to a request to select a second destination in the
plurality of candidate destinations as the selected destination. In response to detecting the
second input, the processing unit is further configured to: update the portable-device
navigation interface on the portable-device display unit in accordance with the second
input to enable display of the second destination as the selected destination; and send
information to the vehicle display unit that enables the vehicle display unit to update the
vehicle navigation interface in accordance with the second input to enable display of the
second destination as the selected destination.
[0013]       In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at an electronic
device that is in communication with a plurality of displays that include a first display and
a second display. The method includes receiving first input information that is indicative
of a first input detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources, where the
first input information includes: a first identifier for the first input source; and a first input
description that describes the first input. The method also includes selecting a first
affected display from the plurality of displays based on the first identifier and an input
source mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays. The method further
                                                  6

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
includes sending, to the first affected display, update information that enables the first
affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
[0014]       In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
communications interface unit configured to communicate with a plurality of display units
that include a first display unit and a second display unit, and a processing unit coupled to
the communications interface unit. The processing unit is configured to receive a first
input information that is indicative of a first input detected by a first input source of a
plurality of input sources, where the first input information includes: a first identifier for
the first input source; and a first input description that describes the first input. The
processing unit is also configured to select a first affected display from the plurality of
displays based on the first identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources
to corresponding displays. The processing unit is further configured to send, to the first
affected display, update information that enables the first affected display to be updated in
accordance with the first input.
[0015]       In accordance with some embodiments, an electronic device includes a
communications interface for communicating with one or more displays (e.g., a first
display, a second display, a portable-device display, and/or a vehicle display), one or more
processors, memory, and one or more programs; the one or more programs are stored in
the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors and the one or
more programs include instructions for performing the operations of any of the methods
described herein. In accordance with some embodiments, a non-transitory computer
readable storage medium has stored therein instructions which when executed by an
electronic device that is in communication with one or more displays, cause the device to
perform the operations of any of the methods referred described herein. In accordance
with some embodiments, a graphical user interface on an electronic device that is in
communication with one or more displays, a memory, and one or more processors to
execute one or more programs stored in the memory including one or more of the
elements displayed in any of the methods described above, which are updated in response
to inputs, as described in any of the methods described herein. In accordance with some
embodiments, an electronic device that is in communication with one or more displays
includes means for performing the operations of any of the methods described herein. In
accordance with some embodiments, an information processing apparatus, for use in an
                                                  7

  WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
electronic device that is in communication with one or more displays, includes means for
performing the operations of any of the methods described herein.
[0016]      Thus, electronic devices with displays are provided with more efficient
methods and interfaces for synchronizing two or more displays, thereby increasing the
effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction with such devices. Such methods and
interfaces may complement or replace conventional methods for synchronizing two or
more displays.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]      For a better understanding of the various described embodiments, reference
should be made to the Description of Embodiments below, in conjunction with the
following drawings in which like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts
throughout the figures.
[0018]      Figure IA is a block diagram illustrating a portable multifunction device with a
touch-sensitive display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0019]      Figure lB is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments.
[0020]      Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device having a touch screen in
accordance with some embodiments.
[0021]      Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments.
[0022]      Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
a portable multifunction device in accordance with some embodiments.
[0023]      Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface for a multifunction device
with a touch-sensitive surface that is separate from the display in accordance with some
embodiments.
[0024]      Figure 5A is a block diagram illustrating an operating environment in which a
portable multifunction device communicates with an external presentation system and/or
server in accordance with some embodiments.
[0025]      Figure 5B is a flow diagram illustrating a method of sending update
information to an affected display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0026]      Figures 6A-6V illustrate exemplary user interfaces for synchronizing two or
more displays in accordance with some embodiments.
                                                8

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0027]       Figures 6W-6FF illustrate exemplary user interfaces for sending update
information to an affected display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0028]       Figures 7A-7D are flow diagrams illustrating a method of synchronizing two
or more displays in accordance with some embodiments.
[0029]       Figures 8A-8B are flow diagrams illustrating a method of synchronizing two or
more displays in accordance with some embodiments.
[0030]       Figures 9A-9C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of sending update
information to an affected display in accordance with some embodiments.
[0031]       Figure 10 is a functional block diagram of an electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0032]       Figure 11 is a functional block diagram of an electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
[0033]       Figure 12 is a functional block diagram of an electronic device in accordance
with some embodiments.
                             DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0034]       Many electronic devices update a graphical user interface on a display
associated with the electronic device in response to the manipulation of user interface
objects displayed on the display. The first electronic device described below improves on
these methods by synchronizing (in some cases) a second graphical interface on a second
display with a first graphical user interface on a first display associated with the first
electronic device. In some embodiments, the second display is associated with a second
electronic device different from the first electronic device. In some embodiments, the first
electronic device synchronizes the first display and the second display in response to
manipulation of user interface objects on a first graphical user interface (e.g., manipulated
with a first touch-sensitive surface or a first touch screen display associated with the first
electronic device). In some other embodiments, the first electronic device synchronizes
the first display and the second display in response to manipulation of user interface
objects on a second graphical user interface (e.g., manipulated with a second touch
sensitive surface or a second touch screen display associated with the second electronic
device).
[0035]       Below, Figures 1A-IB, 2, and 3 provide a description of exemplary devices.
Figures 4A-4B and 6A-FF illustrate exemplary user interfaces. Figures 7A-7D and 8A-8B
                                                  9

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
are flow diagrams illustrating a method of synchronizing two or more displays. Figures
9A- 9C are flow diagrams illustrating a method of sending update information to an
affected display. The user interfaces in Figures 6A-6V are used to illustrate the processes
in Figures 7A-7D and 8A-8B. The user interfaces in Figures 6W-6FF are used to illustrate
the processes in Figures 9A-9C.
                                    EXEMPLARY DEVICES
[0036]       Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments, examples of which are
illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following detailed description, numerous
specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various
described embodiments. However, it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art
that the various described embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In
other instances, well-known methods, procedures, components, circuits, and networks
have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the
embodiments.
[0037]       It will also be understood that, although the terms first, second, etc. are, in
some instances, used herein to describe various elements, these elements should not be
limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another.
For example, a first contact could be termed a second contact, and, similarly, a second
contact could be termed a first contact, without departing from the scope of the various
described embodiments. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts, but
they are not the same contact.
[0038]       The terminology used in the description of the various described embodiments
herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to
be limiting. As used in the description of the various described embodiments and the
appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" are intended to include the plural
forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood
that the term "and/or" as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible
combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood
that the terms "includes," "including," "comprises," and/or "comprising," when used in
this specification, specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps, operations,
elements, and/or components, but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more
other features, integers, steps, operations, elements, components, and/or groups thereof.
                                                  10

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0039]       As used herein, the term "if' is, optionally, construed to mean "when" or
''upon" or "in response to determining" or "in response to detecting," depending on the
context. Similarly, the phrase "if it is determined" or "if [a stated condition or event] is
detected" is, optionally, construed to mean "upon determining" or "in response to
determining" or 'upon detecting [the stated condition or event]" or "in response to
detecting [the stated condition or event]," depending on the context.
[0040]       Embodiments of electronic devices, user interfaces for such devices, and
associated processes for using such devices are described. In some embodiments, the
device is a portable communications device, such as a mobile telephone, that also contains
other functions, such as PDA and/or music player functions. Exemplary embodiments of
portable multifunction devices include, without limitation, the iPhone®, iPod Touch@,
and iPad@ devices from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California. Other portable electronic
devices, such as laptops or tablet computers with touch-sensitive surfaces (e.g., touch
screen displays and/or touch pads), are, optionally, used. It should also be understood that,
in some embodiments, the device is not a portable communications device, but is a
desktop computer with a touch- sensitive surface (e.g., a touch screen display and/or a
touch pad).
[0041]       In the discussion that follows, an electronic device that includes a display and a
touch-sensitive surface is described. It should be understood, however, that the electronic
device optionally includes one or more other physical user-interface devices, such as a
physical keyboard, a mouse and/or a joystick.
[0042]       The device typically supports a variety of applications, such as one or more of
the following: a drawing application, a presentation application, a word processing
application, a website creation application, a disk authoring application, a spreadsheet
application, a gaming application, a telephone application, a video conferencing
application, an e-mail application, an instant messaging application, a workout support
application, a photo management application, a digital camera application, a digital video
camera application, a web browsing application, a digital music player application, and/or
a digital video player application.
[0043]       The various applications that are executed on the device optionally use at least
one common physical user-interface device, such as the touch-sensitive surface. One or
more functions of the touch-sensitive surface as well as corresponding information
displayed on the device are, optionally, adjusted and/or varied from one application to the
                                                 11

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
next and/or within a respective application. In this way, a common physical architecture
(such as the touch-sensitive surface) of the device optionally supports the variety of
applications with user interfaces that are intuitive and transparent to the user.
[0044]       Attention is now directed toward embodiments of portable devices with touch
sensitive displays. Figure IA is a block diagram illustrating portable multifunction device
 100 with touch-sensitive displays 112 in accordance with some embodiments. Touch
sensitive display 112 is sometimes called a "touch screen" for convenience, and is
sometimes known as or called a touch-sensitive display system. Device 100 includes
memory 102 (which optionally includes one or more computer readable storage
mediums), memory controller 122, one or more processing units (CPU's) 120, peripherals
interface 118, RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, microphone 113,
input/output (1/0) subsystem 106, other input or control devices 116, and external port
 124. Device 100 optionally includes one or more optical sensors 164. Device 100
optionally includes one or more intensity sensors 165 for detecting intensity of contacts on
device 100 (e.g., a touch- sensitive surface such as touch-sensitive display system 112 of
device 100). Device 100 optionally includes one or more tactile output generators 167 for
generating tactile outputs on device 100 (e.g., generating tactile outputs on a touch
sensitive surface such as touch- sensitive display system 112 of device 100 or touchpad
355 of device 300). These components optionally communicate over one or more
communication buses or signal lines 103.
[0045]       As used in the specification and claims, the term "intensity" of a contact on a
touch-sensitive surface refers to the force or pressure (force per unit area) of a contact
(e.g., a finger contact) on the touch sensitive surface, or to a substitute (proxy) for the
force or pressure of a contact on the touch sensitive surface. The intensity of a contact has
a range of values that includes at least four distinct values and more typically includes
hundreds of distinct values (e.g., at least 256). Intensity of a contact is, optionally,
determined (or measured) using various approaches and various sensors or combinations
of sensors. For example, one or more force sensors underneath or adjacent to the touch
sensitive surface are, optionally, used to measure force at various points on the touch
sensitive surface. In some implementations, force measurements from multiple force
sensors are combined (e.g., a weighted average) to determine an estimated force of a
contact. Similarly, a pressure- sensitive tip of a stylus is, optionally, used to determine a
pressure of the stylus on the touch-sensitive surface. Alternatively, the size of the contact
                                                 12

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
area detected on the touch- sensitive surface and/or changes thereto, the capacitance of the
touch-sensitive surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto, and/or the
resistance of the touch-sensitive surface proximate to the contact and/or changes thereto
are, optionally, used as a substitute for the force or pressure of the contact on the touch
sensitive surface. In some implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force
or pressure are used directly to determine whether an intensity threshold has been
exceeded (e.g., the intensity threshold is described in units corresponding to the substitute
measurements). In some implementations, the substitute measurements for contact force
or pressure are converted to an estimated force or pressure and the estimated force or
pressure is used to determine whether an intensity threshold has been exceeded (e.g., the
intensity threshold is a pressure threshold measured in units of pressure).
[0046]      As used in the specification and claims, the term "tactile output" refers to
physical displacement of a device relative to a previous position of the device, physical
displacement of a component (e.g., a touch-sensitive surface) of a device relative to
another component (e.g., housing) of the device, or displacement of the component
relative to a center of mass of the device that will be detected by a user with the user's
sense of touch. For example, in situations where the device or the component of the device
is in contact with a surface of a user that is sensitive to touch (e.g., a finger, palm, or other
part of a user's hand), the tactile output generated by the physical displacement will be
interpreted by the user as a tactile sensation corresponding to a perceived change in
physical characteristics of the device or the component of the device. For example,
movement of a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touch-sensitive display or trackpad) is,
optionally, interpreted by the user as a "down click" or "up click" of a physical actuator
button. In some cases, a user will feel a tactile sensation such as an "down click" or "up
click" even when there is no movement of a physical actuator button associated with the
touch-sensitive surface that is physically pressed (e.g., displaced) by the user's
movements. As another example, movement of the touch-sensitive surface is, optionally,
interpreted or sensed by the user as "roughness" of the touch-sensitive surface, even when
there is no change in smoothness of the touch-sensitive surface. While such interpretations
of touch by a user will be subject to the individualized sensory perceptions of the user,
there are many sensory perceptions of touch that are common to a large majority of users.
Thus, when a tactile output is described as corresponding to a particular sensory
perception of a user (e.g., an "up click," a "down click," "roughness"), unless otherwise
                                                 13

  WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
stated, the generated tactile output corresponds to physical displacement of the device or a
component thereof that will generate the described sensory perception for a typical (or
average) user.
[0047]       It should be appreciated that device 100 is only one example of a portable
multifunction device, and that device 100 optionally has more or fewer components than
shown, optionally combines two or more components, or optionally has a different
configuration or arrangement of the components. The various components shown in
Figure 1A are implemented in hardware, software, or a combination of both hardware and
software, including one or more signal processing and/or application specific integrated
circuits.
[0048]       Memory 102 optionally includes high-speed random access memory and
optionally also includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid-state memory devices. Access
to memory 102 by other components of device 100, such as CPU 120 and the peripherals
interface 118, is, optionally, controlled by memory controller 122.
[0049]       Peripherals interface 118 can be used to couple input and output peripherals of
the device to CPU 120 and memory 102. The one or more processors 120 run or execute
various software programs and/or sets of instructions stored in memory 102 to perform
various functions for device 100 and to process data.
[0050]       In some embodiments, peripherals interface 118, CPU 120, and memory
controller 122 are, optionally, implemented on a single chip, such as chip 104. In some
other embodiments, they are, optionally, implemented on separate chips.
[0051]       RF (radio frequency) circuitry 108 receives and sends RF signals, also called
electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 converts electrical signals to/from
electromagnetic signals and communicates with communications networks and other
communications devices via the electromagnetic signals. RF circuitry 108 optionally
includes well-known circuitry for performing these functions, including but not limited to
an antenna system, an RF transceiver, one or more amplifiers, a tuner, one or more
oscillators, a digital signal processor, a CODEC chipset, a subscriber identity module
(SIM) card, memory, and so forth. RF circuitry 108 optionally communicates with
networks, such as the Internet, also referred to as the World Wide Web (WWW), an
intranet and/or a wireless network, such as a cellular telephone network, a wireless local
area network (LAN) and/or a metropolitan area network (MAN), and other devices by
                                                14

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
wireless communication. The wireless communication optionally uses any of a plurality of
communications standards, protocols and technologies, including but not limited to Global
System for Mobile Communications (GSM), Enhanced Data GSM Environment (EDGE),
high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA), high-speed uplink packet access (HSUPA),
Evolution, Data-Only (EV-DO), HSPA, HSPA+, Dual-Cell HSPA (DC-HSPDA), long
term evolution (LTE), near field communication (NFC), wideband code division multiple
access (W-CDMA), code division multiple access (CDMA), time division multiple access
(TDMA), Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity (Wi-Fi) (e.g., IEEE 802.11 a, IEEE 802.1 1b, IEEE
802.1 Ig and/or IEEE 802.1 In), voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), Wi-MAX, a protocol
for e-mail (e.g., Internet message access protocol (IMAP) and/or post office protocol
(POP)), instant messaging (e.g., extensible messaging and presence protocol (XMPP),
Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions
(SIMPLE), Instant Messaging and Presence Service (IMPS)), and/or Short Message
Service (SMS), or any other suitable communication protocol, including communication
protocols not yet developed as of the filing date of this document.
[0052]       Audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, and microphone 113 provide an audio
interface between a user and device 100. Audio circuitry 110 receives audio data from
peripherals interface 118, converts the audio data to an electrical signal, and transmits the
electrical signal to speaker 111. Speaker 111 converts the electrical signal to human
audible sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 also receives electrical signals converted by
microphone 113 from sound waves. Audio circuitry 110 converts the electrical signal to
audio data and transmits the audio data to peripherals interface 118 for processing. Audio
data is, optionally, retrieved from and/or transmitted to memory 102 and/or RF circuitry
 108 by peripherals interface 118. In some embodiments, audio circuitry 110 also includes
a headset jack (e.g., 212, Figure 2). The headset jack provides an interface between audio
circuitry 110 and removable audio input/output peripherals, such as output-only
headphones or a headset with both output (e.g., a headphone for one or both ears) and
input (e.g., a microphone).
[0053]       1/0 subsystem 106 couples input/output peripherals on device 100, such as
touch screen 112 and other input control devices 116, to peripherals interface 118. 1/0
subsystem 106 optionally includes display controller 156, optical sensor controller 158,
intensity sensor controller 159, haptic feedback controller 161 and one or more input
controllers 160 for other input or control devices. The one or more input controllers 160
                                                15

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
receive/send electrical signals from/to other input or control devices 116. The other input
control devices 116 optionally include physical buttons (e.g., push buttons, rocker buttons,
etc.), dials, slider switches, joysticks, click wheels, and so forth. In some alternate
embodiments, input controller(s) 160 are, optionally, coupled to any (or none) of the
following: a keyboard, infrared port, USB port, and a pointer device such as a mouse. The
one or more buttons (e.g., 208, Figure 2) optionally include an up/down button for volume
control of speaker 111 and/or microphone 113. The one or more buttons optionally
include a push button (e.g., 206, Figure 2).
[0054]        Touch-sensitive display 112 provides an input interface and an output interface
between the device and a user. Display controller 156 receives and/or sends electrical
signals from/to touch screen 112. Touch screen 112 displays visual output to the user. The
visual output optionally includes graphics, text, icons, video, and any combination
thereof(collectively termed "graphics"). In some embodiments, some or all of the visual
output corresponds to user-interface objects.
[0055]        Touch screen 112 has a touch-sensitive surface, sensor or set of sensors that
accepts input from the user based on haptic and/or tactile contact. Touch screen 112 and
display controller 156 (along with any associated modules and/or sets of instructions in
memory 102) detect contact (and any movement or breaking of the contact) on touch
screen 112 and converts the detected contact into interaction with user-interface objects
(e.g., one or more soft keys, icons, web pages or images) that are displayed on touch
screen 112. In an exemplary embodiment, a point of contact between touch screen 112
and the user corresponds to a finger of the user.
[0056]        Touch screen 112 optionally uses LCD (liquid crystal display) technology,
LPD (light emitting polymer display) technology, or LED (light emitting diode)
technology, although other display technologies are used in other embodiments. Touch
screen 112 and display controller 156 optionally detect contact and any movement or
breaking thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensing technologies now known or later
developed, including but not limited to capacitive, resistive, infrared, and surface acoustic
wave technologies, as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for
determining one or more points of contact with touch screen 112. In an exemplary
embodiment, projected mutual capacitance sensing technology is used, such as that found
in the iPhone@, iPod Touch@, and iPad@ from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California.
                                                 16

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
[0057]      Touch screen 112 optionally has a video resolution in excess of 100 dpi. In
some embodiments, the touch screen has a video resolution of approximately 160 dpi. The
user optionally makes contact with touch screen 112 using any suitable object or
appendage, such as a stylus, a finger, and so forth. In some embodiments, the user
interface is designed to work primarily with finger-based contacts and gestures, which can
be less precise than stylus-based input due to the larger area of contact of a finger on the
touch screen. In some embodiments, the device translates the rough finger-based input
into a precise pointer/cursor position or command for performing the actions desired by
the user.
[0058]      In some embodiments, in addition to the touch screen, device 100 optionally
includes a touchpad (not shown) for activating or deactivating particular functions. In
some embodiments, the touchpad is a touch-sensitive area of the device that, unlike the
touch screen, does not display visual output. The touchpad is, optionally, a touch-sensitive
surface that is separate from touch screen 112 or an extension of the touch-sensitive
surface formed by the touch screen.
[0059]      Device 100 also includes power system 162 for powering the various
components. Power system 162 optionally includes a power management system, one or
more power sources (e.g., battery, alternating current (AC)), a recharging system, a power
failure detection circuit, a power converter or inverter, a power status indicator (e.g., a
light- emitting diode (LED)) and any other components associated with the generation,
management and distribution of power in portable devices.
[0060]      Device 100 optionally also includes one or more optical sensors 164. Figure
 1A shows an optical sensor coupled to optical sensor controller 158 in I/O subsystem 106.
Optical sensor 164 optionally includes charge-coupled device (CCD) or complementary
metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) phototransistors. Optical sensor 164 receives light
from the environment, projected through one or more lens, and converts the light to data
representing an image. In conjunction with imaging module 143 (also called a camera
module), optical sensor 164 optionally captures still images or video. In some
embodiments, an optical sensor is located on the back of device 100, opposite touch
screen display 112 on the front of the device, so that the touch screen display is enabled
for use as a viewfinder for still and/or video image acquisition. In some embodiments,
another optical sensor is located on the front of the device so that the user's image is,
                                                17

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
optionally, obtained for videoconferencing while the user views the other video
conference participants on the touch screen display.
[0061]       Device 100 optionally also includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165.
Figure 1A shows a contact intensity sensor coupled to intensity sensor controller 159 in
1/0 subsystem 106. Contact intensity sensor 165 optionally includes one or more
piezoresistive strain gauges, capacitive force sensors, electric force sensors, piezoelectric
force sensors, optical force sensors, capacitive touch-sensitive surfaces, or other intensity
sensors (e.g., sensors used to measure the force (or pressure) of a contact on a touch
sensitive surface). Contact intensity sensor 165 receives contact intensity information
(e.g., pressure information or a proxy for pressure information) from the environment. In
some embodiments, at least one contact intensity sensor is collocated with, or proximate
to, a touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch-sensitive display system 112). In some
embodiments, at least one contact intensity sensor is located on the back of device 100,
opposite touch screen display 112 which is located on the front of device 100.
[0062]       Device 100 optionally also includes one or more proximity sensors 166. Figure
 1A shows proximity sensor 166 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
proximity sensor 166 is coupled to input controller 160 in 1/0 subsystem 106. In some
embodiments, the proximity sensor turns off and disables touch screen 112 when the
multifunction device is placed near the user's ear (e.g., when the user is making a phone
call).
[0063]       Device 100 optionally also includes one or more tactile output generators 167.
Figure 1A shows a tactile output generator coupled to haptic feedback controller 161 in
1/0 subsystem 106. Tactile output generator 167 optionally includes one or more
electroacoustic devices such as speakers or other audio components and/or
electromechanical devices that convert energy into linear motion such as a motor,
solenoid, electroactive polymer, piezoelectric actuator, electrostatic actuator, or other
tactile output generating component (e.g., a component that converts electrical signals into
tactile outputs on the device). Contact intensity sensor 165 receives tactile feedback
generation instructions from haptic feedback module 133 and generates tactile outputs on
device 100 that are capable of being sensed by a user of device 100. In some
embodiments, at least one tactile output generator is collocated with, or proximate to, a
touch-sensitive surface (e.g., touch- sensitive display system 112) and, optionally,
generates a tactile output by moving the touch-sensitive surface vertically (e.g., in/out of a
                                                18

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
surface of device 100) or laterally (e.g., back and forth in the same plane as a surface of
device 100). In some embodiments, at least one tactile output generator sensor is located
on the back of device 100, opposite touch screen display 112 which is located on the front
of device 100.
[0064]       Device 100 optionally also includes one or more accelerometers 168. Figure
 1A shows accelerometer 168 coupled to peripherals interface 118. Alternately,
accelerometer 168 is, optionally, coupled to an input controller 160 in I/O subsystem 106.
In some embodiments, information is displayed on the touch screen display in a portrait
view or a landscape view based on an analysis of data received from the one or more
accelerometers. Device 100 optionally includes, in addition to accelerometer(s) 168, a
magnetometer (not shown) and a GPS (or GLONASS or other global navigation system)
receiver (not shown) for obtaining information concerning the location and orientation
(e.g., portrait or landscape) of device 100.
[0065]       In some embodiments, the software components stored in memory 102 include
operating system 126, communication module (or set of instructions) 128, contact/motion
module (or set of instructions) 130, graphics module (or set of instructions) 132, text input
module (or set of instructions) 134, Global Positioning System (GPS) module (or set of
instructions) 135, and applications (or sets of instructions) 136. Furthermore, in some
embodiments memory 102 stores device/global internal state 157, as shown in Figures 1A
and 3. Device/global internal state 157 includes one or more of: active application state,
indicating which applications, if any, are currently active; display state, indicating what
applications, views or other information occupy various regions of touch screen display
 112; sensor state, including information obtained from the device's various sensors and
input control devices 116; and location information concerning the device's location
and/or attitude.
[0066]       Operating system 126 (e.g., Darwin, RTXC, LINUX, UNIX, OS X,
WINDOWS, or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks) includes various
software components and/or drivers for controlling and managing general system tasks
(e.g., memory management, storage device control, power management, etc.) and
facilitates communication between various hardware and software components.
[0067]       Communication module 128 facilitates communication with other devices over
one or more external ports 124 and also includes various software components for
handling data received by RF circuitry 108 and/or external port 124. External port 124
                                                19

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
(e.g., Universal Serial Bus (USB), FIREWIRE, etc.) is adapted for coupling directly to
other devices or indirectly over a network (e.g., the Internet, wireless LAN, etc.). In some
embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 30-pin) connector that is the same as,
or similar to and/or compatible with the 30-pin connector used on iPod (trademark of
Apple Inc.) devices. In some embodiments, the external port is a multi-pin (e.g., 8-pin)
connector that is the same as, or similar to and/or compatible with the 8-pin connector
(e.g., Lightning connector) used on iPhone and iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.) devices.
[0068]       Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects contact with touch screen 112
(in conjunction with display controller 156) and other touch sensitive devices (e.g., a
touchpad or physical click wheel). Contact/motion module 130 includes various software
components for performing various operations related to detection of contact, such as
determining if contact has occurred (e.g., detecting a finger-down event), determining an
intensity of the contact (e.g., the force or pressure of the contact or a substitute for the
force or pressure of the contact), determining if there is movement of the contact and
tracking the movement across the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., detecting one or more
finger-dragging events), and determining if the contact has ceased (e.g., detecting a finger
up event or a break in contact). Contact/motion module 130 receives contact data from the
touch-sensitive surface. Determining movement of the point of contact, which is
represented by a series of contact data, optionally includes determining speed
(magnitude), velocity (magnitude and direction), and/or an acceleration (a change in
magnitude and/or direction) of the point of contact. These operations are, optionally,
applied to single contacts (e.g., one finger contacts) or to multiple simultaneous contacts
(e.g., "multitouch"/multiple finger contacts). In some embodiments, contact/motion
module 130 and display controller 156 detect contact on a touchpad.
[0069]       In some embodiments, contact/motion module 130 uses a set of one or more
intensity thresholds to determine whether an operation has been performed by a user (e.g.,
to determine whether a user has "clicked" on an icon). In some embodiments at least a
subset of the intensity thresholds are determined in accordance with software parameters
(e.g., the intensity thresholds are not determined by the activation thresholds of particular
physical actuators and can be adjusted without changing the physical hardware of device
 100). For example, a mouse "click" threshold of a trackpad or touch screen display can be
set to any of a large range of predefined thresholds values without changing the trackpad
or touch screen display hardware. Additionally, in some implementations a user of the
                                                 20

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
device is provided with software settings for adjusting one or more of the set of intensity
thresholds (e.g., by adjusting individual intensity thresholds and/or by adjusting a plurality
of intensity thresholds at once with a system-level click "intensity" parameter).
[0070]      Contact/motion module 130 optionally detects a gesture input by a user.
Different gestures on the touch-sensitive surface have different contact patterns (e.g.,
different motions, timings, and/or intensities of detected contacts). Thus, a gesture is,
optionally, detected by detecting a particular contact pattern. For example, detecting a
finger tap gesture includes detecting a finger-down event followed by detecting a finger
up (lift off) event at the same position (or substantially the same position) as the finger
down event (e.g., at the position of an icon). As another example, detecting a finger swipe
gesture on the touch-sensitive surface includes detecting a finger-down event followed by
detecting one or more finger-dragging events, and subsequently followed by detecting a
finger-up (lift off) event.
[0071]      Graphics module 132 includes various known software components for
rendering and displaying graphics on touch screen 112 or other display, including
components for changing the visual impact (e.g., brightness, transparency, saturation,
contrast or other visual property) of graphics that are displayed. As used herein, the term
"graphics" includes any object that can be displayed to a user, including without limitation
text, web pages, icons (such as user-interface objects including soft keys), digital images,
videos, animations and the like.
[0072]      In some embodiments, graphics module 132 stores data representing graphics
to be used. Each graphic is, optionally, assigned a corresponding code. Graphics module
 132 receives, from applications etc., one or more codes specifying graphics to be
displayed along with, if necessary, coordinate data and other graphic property data, and
then generates screen image data to output to display controller 156.
[0073]      Haptic feedback module 133 includes various software components for
generating instructions used by tactile output generator(s) 167 to produce tactile outputs at
one or more locations on device 100 in response to user interactions with device 100.
[0074]      Text input module 134, which is, optionally, a component of graphics module
 132, provides soft keyboards for entering text in various applications (e.g., contacts 137,
e-mail 140, IM 141, browser 147, and any other application that needs text input).
[0075]      GPS module 135 determines the location of the device and provides this
information for use in various applications (e.g., to telephone 138 for use in location
                                               21

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
based dialing, to camera 143 as picture/video metadata, and to applications that provide
location- based services such as weather widgets, local yellow page widgets, and
map/navigation widgets).
[0076]       Applications 136 optionally include the following modules (or sets of
instructions), or a subset or superset thereof:
     e  contacts module 137 (sometimes called an address book or contact list);
     e  telephone module 138;
     e  video conferencing module 139;
     e  e-mail client module 140;
     e  instant messaging (IM) module 141;
     e  workout support module 142;
     e  camera module 143 for still and/or video images;
     e  image management module 144;
     e  browser module 147;
     e  calendar module 148;
     e  widget modules 149, which optionally include one or more of: weather widget 149
         1, stocks widget 149-2, calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4,
        dictionary widget 149-5, and other widgets obtained by the user, as well as user
        created widgets 149-6;
     e  digital personal assistant module 150;
     e  vehicle integration module 151;
     e  video and music player module 152, which is, optionally, made up of a video player
        module and a music player module;
     e  notes module 153;
     e  map module 154; and/or
     e   online video module 155.
[0077]       Examples of other applications 136 that are, optionally, stored in memory 102
include other word processing applications, other image editing applications, drawing
applications, presentation applications, JAVA-enabled applications, encryption, digital
rights management, voice recognition, and voice replication.
[0078]       In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, contacts module 137 are,
optionally, used to manage an address book or contact list (e.g., stored in application
internal state 192 of contacts module 137 in memory 102 or memory 370), including:
adding name(s) to the address book; deleting name(s) from the address book; associating
                                                22

  WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
telephone number(s), e- mail address(es), physical address(es) or other information with a
name; associating an image with a name; categorizing and sorting names; providing
telephone numbers or e-mail addresses to initiate and/or facilitate communications by
telephone 138, video conference 139, e-mail140, or IM 141; and so forth.
[0079]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics
module 132, and text input module 134, telephone module 138 are, optionally, used to
enter a sequence of characters corresponding to a telephone number, access one or more
telephone numbers in address book 137, modify a telephone number that has been entered,
dial a respective telephone number, conduct a conversation and disconnect or hang up
when the conversation is completed. As noted above, the wireless communication
optionally uses any of a plurality of communications standards, protocols and
technologies.
[0080]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor 164, optical
sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134,
contact list 137, and telephone module 138, videoconferencing module 139 includes
executable instructions to initiate, conduct, and terminate a video conference between a
user and one or more other participants in accordance with user instructions.
[0081]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, e-mail client
module 140 includes executable instructions to create, send, receive, and manage e-mail in
response to user instructions. In conjunction with image management module 144, e-mail
client module 140 makes it very easy to create and send e-mails with still or video images
taken with camera module 143.
[0082]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, the instant
messaging module 141 includes executable instructions to enter a sequence of characters
corresponding to an instant message, to modify previously entered characters, to transmit
a respective instant message (e.g., using a Short Message Service (SMS) or Multimedia
Message Service (MMS) protocol for telephony-based instant messages or using XMPP,
SIMPLE, or IMPS for Internet-based instant messages), to receive instant messages and to
view received instant messages. In some embodiments, transmitted and/or received instant
                                                23

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
messages optionally include graphics, photos, audio files, video files and/or other
attachments as are supported in a MMS and/or an Enhanced Messaging Service (EMS).
As used herein, "instant messaging" refers to both telephony-based messages (e.g.,
messages sent using SMS or MMS) and Internet-based messages (e.g., messages sent
using XMPP, SIMPLE, or IMPS).
[0083]       In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display controller 156,
contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS module 135, map
module 154, and music player module 146, workout support module 142 includes
executable instructions to create workouts (e.g., with time, distance, and/or calorie
burning goals); communicate with workout sensors (sports devices); receive workout
sensor data; calibrate sensors used to monitor a workout; select and play music for a
workout; and display, store and transmit workout data.
[0084]       In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, optical sensor(s)
 164, optical sensor controller 158, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and image
management module 144, camera module 143 includes executable instructions to capture
still images or video (including a video stream) and store them into memory 102, modify
characteristics of a still image or video, or delete a still image or video from memory 102.
[0085]       In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and camera module 143, image
management module 144 includes executable instructions to arrange, modify (e.g., edit),
or otherwise manipulate, label, delete, present (e.g., in a digital slide show or album), and
store still and/or video images.
[0086]       In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134,
browser module 147 includes executable instructions to browse the Internet in accordance
with user instructions, including searching, linking to, receiving, and displaying web
pages or portions thereof, as well as attachments and other files linked to web pages.
[0087]       In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, e-mail
client module 140, and browser module 147, calendar module 148 includes executable
instructions to create, display, modify, and store calendars and data associated with
calendars (e.g., calendar entries, to do lists, etc.) in accordance with user instructions.
                                                  24

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
[0088]       In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, and
browser module 147, widget modules 149 are mini-applications that are, optionally,
downloaded and used by a user (e.g., weather widget 149-1, stocks widget 149-2,
calculator widget 149-3, alarm clock widget 149-4, and dictionary widget 149-5) or
created by the user (e.g., user-created widget 149-6). In some embodiments, a widget
includes an HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) file, a CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)
file, and a JavaScript file. In some embodiments, a widget includes an XML (Extensible
Markup Language) file and a JavaScript file (e.g., Yahoo!@ Widgets).
[0089]       In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111,
microphone 113, touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module 130, graphics
module 132, and text input module 134, digital personal assistant module 150 records
voice commands and sends information representative of the recorded voice commands to
a server such as server 510 in Figure 5A for analysis, and responds to the voice commands
based on a response from the server.
[0090]       Vehicle integration module 151 includes executable instructions for one or
more intermediation processes that control a vehicle information display system in a
vehicle (e.g., a car, a truck, a van, etc.) that provides a user interface on a respective
display of the vehicle information display system (e.g., display 546 of external
information presentation system 540 in Figure 5A), such as for a mapping application or a
music application. The vehicle integration application converts information from third
party applications into content for display by the vehicle integration application on the
respective display of the vehicle information display system.
[0091]       In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, and
browser module 147, video and music player module 152 includes executable instructions
that allow the user to download and play back recorded music and other sound files stored
in one or more file formats, such as MP3 or AAC files, and executable instructions to
display, present or otherwise play back videos (e.g., on touch screen 112 or on an external,
connected display via external port 124). In some embodiments, device 100 optionally
includes the functionality of an MP3 player, such as an iPod (trademark of Apple Inc.).
[0092]       In conjunction with touch screen 112, display controller 156, contact module
 130, graphics module 132, and text input module 134, notes module 153 includes
                                                   25

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
executable instructions to create and manage notes, to do lists, and the like in accordance
with user instructions.
[0093]      In conjunction with RF circuitry 108, touch screen 112, display system
controller 156, contact module 130, graphics module 132, text input module 134, GPS
module 135, and browser module 147, map module 154 are, optionally, used to receive,
display, modify, and store maps and data associated with maps (e.g., driving directions;
data on stores and other points of interest at or near a particular location; and other
location- based data) in accordance with user instructions.
[0094]      In conjunction with touch screen 112, display system controller 156, contact
module 130, graphics module 132, audio circuitry 110, speaker 111, RF circuitry 108, text
input module 134, e-mail client module 140, and browser module 147, online video
module 155 includes instructions that allow the user to access, browse, receive (e.g., by
streaming and/or download), play back (e.g., on the touch screen or on an external,
connected display via external port 124), send an e-mail with a link to a particular online
video, and otherwise manage online videos in one or more file formats, such as H.264. In
some embodiments, instant messaging module 141, rather than e-mail client module 140,
is used to send a link to a particular online video.
[0095]      Each of the above identified modules and applications correspond to a set of
executable instructions for performing one or more functions described above and the
methods described in this application (e.g., the computer-implemented methods and other
information processing methods described herein). These modules (i.e., sets of
instructions) need not be implemented as separate software programs, procedures or
modules, and thus various subsets of these modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise
re-arranged in various embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 optionally stores
a subset of the modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 102
optionally stores additional modules and data structures not described above.
[0096]      In some embodiments, device 100 is a device where operation of a predefined
set of functions on the device is performed exclusively through a touch screen and/or a
touchpad. By using a touch screen and/or a touchpad as the primary input control device
for operation of device 100, the number of physical input control devices (such as push
buttons, dials, and the like) on device 100 is, optionally, reduced.
[0097]      The predefined set of functions that are performed exclusively through a touch
screen and/or a touchpad optionally include navigation between user interfaces. In some
                                                 26

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
embodiments, the touchpad, when touched by the user, navigates device 100 to a main,
home, or root menu from any user interface that is displayed on device 100. In such
embodiments, a "menu button" is implemented using a touchpad. In some other
embodiments, the menu button is a physical push button or other physical input control
device instead of a touchpad.
[0098]      Figure lB is a block diagram illustrating exemplary components for event
handling in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 102 (in
Figures 1A) or 370 (Figure 3) includes event sorter 170 (e.g., in operating system 126)
and a respective application 136-1 (e.g., any of the aforementioned applications 137-13,
 155, 380-390).
[0099]      Event sorter 170 receives event information and determines the application
 136-1 and application view 191 of application 136-1 to which to deliver the event
information. Event sorter 170 includes event monitor 171 and event dispatcher module
 174. In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes application internal state 192,
which indicates the current application view(s) displayed on touch sensitive display 112
when the application is active or executing. In some embodiments, device/global internal
state 157 is used by event sorter 170 to determine which application(s) is (are) currently
active, and application internal state 192 is used by event sorter 170 to determine
application views 191 to which to deliver event information.
[0100]      In some embodiments, application internal state 192 includes additional
information, such as one or more of: resume information to be used when application 136
 1 resumes execution, user interface state information that indicates information being
displayed or that is ready for display by application 136-1, a state queue for enabling the
user to go back to a prior state or view of application 136-1, and a redo/undo queue of
previous actions taken by the user.
[0101]      Event monitor 171 receives event information from peripherals interface 118.
Event information includes information about a sub-event (e.g., a user touch on touch
sensitive display 112, as part of a multi-touch gesture). Peripherals interface 118 transmits
information it receives from 1/0 subsystem 106 or a sensor, such as proximity sensor 166,
accelerometer(s) 168, and/or microphone 113 (through audio circuitry 110). Information
that peripherals interface 118 receives from 1/0 subsystem 106 includes information from
touch-sensitive display 112 or a touch-sensitive surface.
                                                27

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
[0102]      In some embodiments, event monitor 171 sends requests to the peripherals
interface 118 at predetermined intervals. In response, peripherals interface 118 transmits
event information. In other embodiments, peripheral interface 118 transmits event
information only when there is a significant event (e.g., receiving an input above a
predetermined noise threshold and/or for more than a predetermined duration).
[0103]      In some embodiments, event sorter 170 also includes a hit view determination
module 172 and/or an active event recognizer determination module 173.
[0104]      Hit view determination module 172 provides software procedures for
determining where a sub-event has taken place within one or more views, when touch
sensitive display 112 displays more than one view. Views are made up of controls and
other elements that a user can see on the display.
[0105]      Another aspect of the user interface associated with an application is a set of
views, sometimes herein called application views or user interface windows, in which
information is displayed and touch-based gestures occur. The application views (of a
respective application) in which a touch is detected optionally correspond to
programmatic levels within a programmatic or view hierarchy of the application. For
example, the lowest level view in which a touch is detected is, optionally, called the hit
view, and the set of events that are recognized as proper inputs are, optionally, determined
based, at least in part, on the hit view of the initial touch that begins a touch-based gesture.
[0106]      Hit view determination module 172 receives information related to sub- events
of a touch-based gesture. When an application has multiple views organized in a
hierarchy, hit view determination module 172 identifies a hit view as the lowest view in
the hierarchy which should handle the sub-event. In most circumstances, the hit view is
the lowest level view in which an initiating sub-event occurs (i.e., the first sub-event in the
sequence of sub-events that form an event or potential event). Once the hit view is
identified by the hit view determination module, the hit view typically receives all sub
events related to the same touch or input source for which it was identified as the hit view.
[0107]      Active event recognizer determination module 173 determines which view or
views within a view hierarchy should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In some
embodiments, active event recognizer determination module 173 determines that only the
hit view should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other embodiments, active
event recognizer determination module 173 determines that all views that include the
physic allocation of a sub-event are actively involved views, and therefore determines that
                                                 28

  WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
all actively involved views should receive a particular sequence of sub-events. In other
embodiments, even if touch sub-events were entirely confined to the area associated with
one particular view, views higher in the hierarchy would still remain as actively involved
views.
[0108]      Event dispatcher module 174 dispatches the event information to an event
recognizer (e.g., event recognizer 180). In embodiments including active event recognizer
determination module 173, event dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to
an event recognizer determined by active event recognizer determination module 173. In
some embodiments, event dispatcher module 174 stores in an event queue the event
information, which is retrieved by a respective event receiver module 182.
[0109]      In some embodiments, operating system 126 includes event sorter 170.
Alternatively, application 136-1 includes event sorter 170. In yet other embodiments,
event sorter 170 is a stand-alone module, or a part of another module stored in memory
 102, such as contact/motion module 130.
[0110]      In some embodiments, application 136-1 includes a plurality of event handlers
 190 and one or more application views 191, each of which includes instructions for
handling touch events that occur within a respective view of the application's user
interface. Each application view 191 of the application 136-1 includes one or more event
recognizers 180. Typically, a respective application view 191 includes a plurality of event
recognizers 180. In other embodiments, one or more of event recognizers 180 are part of a
separate module, such as a user interface kit (not shown) or a higher level object from
which application 136-1 inherits methods and other properties. In some embodiments, a
respective event handler 190 includes one or more of: data updater 176, object updater
 177, GUI updater 178, and/or event data 179 received from event sorter 170. Event
handler 190 optionally utilizes or calls data updater 176, object updater 177 or GUI
updater 178 to update the application internal state 192. Alternatively, one or more of the
application views 191 includes one or more respective event handlers 190. Also, in some
embodiments, one or more of data updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178
are included in a respective application view 191.
[0111]      A respective event recognizer 180 receives event information (e.g., event data
 179) from event sorter 170, and identifies an event from the event information. Event
recognizer 180 includes event receiver 182 and event comparator 184. In some
                                               29

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
embodiments, event recognizer 180 also includes at least a subset of: metadata 183, and
event delivery instructions 188 (which optionally include sub-event delivery instructions).
[0112]      Event receiver 182 receives event information from event sorter 170. The
event information includes information about a sub-event, for example, a touch or a touch
movement. Depending on the sub-event, the event information also includes additional
information, such as location of the sub-event. When the sub-event concerns motion of a
touch, the event information optionally also includes speed and direction of the sub-event.
In some embodiments, events include rotation of the device from one orientation to
another (e.g., from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation, or vice versa), and the
event information includes corresponding information about the current orientation (also
called device attitude) of the device.
[0113]      Event comparator 184 compares the event information to predefined event or
sub-event definitions and, based on the comparison, determines an event or sub-event, or
determines or updates the state of an event or sub-event. In some embodiments, event
comparator 184 includes event definitions 186. Event definitions 186 contain definitions
of events (e.g., predefined sequences of sub-events), for example, event 1 (187-1), event 2
(187-2), and others. In some embodiments, sub-events in an event 187 include, for
example, touch begin, touch end, touch movement, touch cancellation, and multiple
touching. In one example, the definition for event 1 (187-1) is a double tap on a displayed
object. The double tap, for example, comprises a first touch (touch begin) on the displayed
object for a predetermined phase, a first lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase, a
second touch (touch begin) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, and a
second lift-off (touch end) for a predetermined phase. In another example, the definition
for event 2 (187-2) is a dragging on a displayed object. The dragging, for example,
comprises a touch (or contact) on the displayed object for a predetermined phase, a
movement of the touch across touch- sensitive display 112, and lift-off of the touch (touch
end). In some embodiments, the event also includes information for one or more
associated event handlers 190.
[0114]      In some embodiments, event definition 187 includes a definition of an event
for a respective user-interface object. In some embodiments, event comparator 184
performs a hit test to determine which user-interface object is associated with a sub-event.
For example, in an application view in which three user-interface objects are displayed on
touch-sensitive display 112, when a touch is detected on touch-sensitive display 112,
                                                 30

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
event comparator 184 performs a hit test to determine which of the three user-interface
objects is associated with the touch (sub-event). If each displayed object is associated with
a respective event handler 190, the event comparator uses the result of the hit test to
determine which event handler 190 should be activated. For example, event comparator
 184 selects an event handler associated with the sub-event and the object triggering the hit
test.
[0115]       In some embodiments, the definition for a respective event 187 also includes
delayed actions that delay delivery of the event information until after it has been
determined whether the sequence of sub-events does or does not correspond to the event
recognizer's event type.
[0116]       When a respective event recognizer 180 determines that the series of sub
events do not match any of the events in event definitions 186, the respective event
recognizer 180 enters an event impossible, event failed, or event ended state, after which it
disregards subsequent sub-events of the touch-based gesture. In this situation, other event
recognizers, if any, that remain active for the hit view continue to track and process sub
events of an ongoing touch-based gesture.
[0117]       In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 includes metadata
 183 with configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that indicate how the event delivery
system should perform sub-event delivery to actively involved event recognizers. In some
embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that
indicate how event recognizers interact, or are enabled to interact, with one another. In
some embodiments, metadata 183 includes configurable properties, flags, and/or lists that
indicate whether sub-events are delivered to varying levels in the view or programmatic
hierarchy.
[0118]       In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 activates event
handler 190 associated with an event when one or more particular sub-events of an event
are recognized. In some embodiments, a respective event recognizer 180 delivers event
information associated with the event to event handler 190. Activating an event handler
 190 is distinct from sending (and deferred sending) sub-events to a respective hit view. In
some embodiments, event recognizer 180 throws a flag associated with the recognized
event, and event handler 190 associated with the flag catches the flag and performs a
predefined process.
                                                31

1002001724
[0119]       In some embodiments, event delivery instructions 188 include sub-event
delivery instructions that deliver event information about a sub-event without activating an
event handler. Instead, the sub-event delivery instructions deliver event information to
event handlers associated with the series of sub-events or to actively involved views. Event
handlers associated with the series of sub-events or with actively involved views receive
the event information and perform a predetermined process.
[0120]       In some embodiments, data updater 176 creates and updates data used in
application 136-1. For example, data updater 17 6 updates the telephone number used in
contacts module 137, or stores a video file used in video player module 145. In some
embodiments, object updater 177 creates and updates objects used in application 136-1.
For example, object updater 177 creates a new user-interface object or updates the position
of a user-interface object. GUI updater 178 updates the GUI. For example, GUI updater
178 prepares display information and sends it to graphics module 132 for display on a
touch- sensitive display.
[0121]       In some embodiments, event handler(s) 190 includes or has access to data
updater 176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178. In some embodiments, data updater
176, object updater 177, and GUI updater 178 are included in a single module of a
respective application 136-1 or application view 191. In other embodiments, they are
included in two or more software modules.
[0122]       It shall be understood that the foregoing discussion regarding event handling of
user touches on touch-sensitive displays also applies to other forms of user inputs to
operate multifunction devices 100 with input-devices, not all of which are initiated on
touch screens. For example, mouse movement and mouse button presses, optionally
coordinated with single or multiple keyboard presses or holds; contact movements such as
taps, drags, scrolls, etc., on touch-pads; pen stylus inputs; movement of the device; oral
instructions; detected eye movements; biometric inputs; and/or any combination thereof
are optionally utilized as inputs corresponding to sub-events which define an event to be
recognized.
[0123]       Figure 2 illustrates a portable multifunction device 100 having a touch screen
112 in accordance with some embodiments. The touch screen optionally displays one or
more graphics within user interface (UI) 200. In this embodiment, as well as others
described below, a user is enabled to select one or more of the graphics by making a
gesture on the graphics, for example, with one or more fingers 202 (not drawn to scale in
                                                32

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
the figure) or one or more styluses 203 (not drawn to scale in the figure). In some
embodiments, selection of one or more graphics occurs when the user breaks contact with
the one or more graphics. In some embodiments, the gesture optionally includes one or
more taps, one or more swipes (from left to right, right to left, upward and/or downward)
and/or a rolling of a finger (from right to left, left to right, upward and/or downward) that
has made contact with device 100. In some implementations or circumstances, inadvertent
contact with a graphic does not select the graphic. For example, a swipe gesture that
sweeps over an application icon optionally does not select the corresponding application
when the gesture corresponding to selection is a tap.
[0124]      Device 100 optionally also includes one or more physical buttons, such as
"home" or menu button 204. As described previously, menu button 204 is, optionally,
used to navigate to any application 136 in a set of applications that are, optionally
executed on device 100. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the menu button is
implemented as a soft key in a GUI displayed on touch screen 112.
[0125]      In one embodiment, device 100 includes touch screen 112, menu button 204,
push button 206 for powering the device on/off and locking the device, volume
adjustment button(s) 208, Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) card slot 210, head set jack
212, and docking/charging external port 124. Push button 206 is, optionally, used to turn
the power on/off on the device by depressing the button and holding the button in the
depressed state for a predefined time interval; to lock the device by depressing the button
and releasing the button before the predefined time interval has elapsed; and/or to unlock
the device or initiate an unlock process. In an alternative embodiment, device 100 also
accepts verbal input for activation or deactivation of some functions through microphone
 113. Device 100also, optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors 165 for
detecting intensity of contacts on touch screen 112 and/or one or more tactile output
generators 167 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 100.
[0126]      Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary multifunction device with a
display and a touch-sensitive surface in accordance with some embodiments. Device 300
need not be portable. In some embodiments, device 300 is a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a tablet computer, a multimedia player device, a navigation device, an
educational device (such as a child's learning toy), a gaming system, or a control device
(e.g., a home or industrial controller). Device 300 typically includes one or more
processing units (CPU's) 310, one or more network or other communications interfaces
                                                 33

  WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
360, memory 370, and one or more communication buses 320 for interconnecting these
components. Communication buses 320 optionally include circuitry (sometimes called a
chipset) that interconnects and controls communications between system components.
Device 300 includes input/output (1/0) interface 330 comprising display 340, which is
typically a touch screen display (e.g., touch screen display 112). 1/0 interface 330 also
optionally includes a keyboard and/or mouse (or other pointing device) 350 and touchpad
355, tactile output generator 357 for generating tactile outputs on device 300 (e.g., similar
to tactile output generator(s) 167 described above with reference to Figure 1A), sensors
359 (e.g., optical, acceleration, proximity, touch-sensitive, and/or contact intensity sensors
similar to contact intensity sensor(s) 165 described above with reference to Figure 1A).
Memory 370 includes high-speed random access memory, such as DRAM, SRAM, DDR
RAM or other random access solid state memory devices; and optionally includes non
volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage
devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage devices. Memory
370 optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located from CPU(s) 310.
In some embodiments, memory 370 stores programs, modules, and data structures
analogous to the programs, modules, and data structures stored in memory 102 of portable
multifunction device 100 (Figure 1A), or a subset thereof. Furthermore, memory 370
optionally stores additional programs, modules, and data structures not present in memory
 102 of portable multifunction device 100. For example, memory 370 of device 300
optionally stores drawing module 380, presentation module 382, word processing module
384, website creation module 386, disk authoring module 388, and/or spreadsheet module
390, while memory 102 of portable multifunction device 100 (Figure 1A) optionally does
not store these modules.
[0127]       Each of the above identified elements in Figure 3 are, optionally, stored in one
or more of the previously mentioned memory devices. Each of the above identified
modules corresponds to a set of instructions for performing a function described above.
The above identified modules or programs (i.e., sets of instructions) need not be
implemented as separate software programs, procedures or modules, and thus various
subsets of these modules are, optionally, combined or otherwise re-arranged in various
embodiments. In some embodiments, memory 370 optionally stores a subset of the
modules and data structures identified above. Furthermore, memory 370 optionally stores
additional modules and data structures not described above.
                                                34

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
[0128]      Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") that
is, optionally, implemented on portable multifunction device 100.
[0129]      Figure 4A illustrates an exemplary user interface for a menu of applications on
portable multifunction device 100 in accordance with some embodiments. Similar user
interfaces are, optionally, implemented on device 300. In some embodiments, user
interface 400 includes the following elements, or a subset or superset thereof:
     e   Signal strength indicator(s) 402 for wireless communication(s ), such as cellular and
        Wi-Fi signals;
     e  Time 404;
     e  Bluetooth indicator 405;
     e  Battery status indicator 406;
     e  Tray 408 with icons for frequently used applications, such as:
             o   Icon 416 for telephone module 138, labeled "Phone," which optionally
                 includes an indicator 414 of the number of missed calls or voicemail
                 messages;
             o   Icon 418 for e-mail client module 140, labeled "Mail," which optionally
                 includes an indicator 410 of the number of unread e-mails;
             o   Icon 420 for browser module 147, labeled "Browser"; and
             o   Icon 422 for video and music player module 152, also referred to as iPod
                 (trademark of Apple Inc.) module 152, labeled "iPod."
     e  Icons for other applications, such as:
             o   Icon 424 for IM module 141, labeled "Text";
             o   Icon 426 for calendar module 148, labeled "Calendar";
             o   Icon 428 for image management module 144, labeled "Photos"; o Icon 430
                 for camera module 143, labeled "Camera";
             o   Icon 432 for online video module 155, labeled "Online Video"; o      Icon 434
                 for stocks widget 149-2, labeled "Stocks";
             o   Icon 436 for map module 154, labeled "Map";
             o   Icon 438 for weather widget 149-1, labeled "Weather";
             o   Icon 440 for alarm clock widget 149-4, labeled "Clock";
             o   Icon 442 for workout support module 142, labeled "Workout Support";
             o   Icon 444 for notes module 153, labeled "Notes"; and
             o   Icon 446 for a settings application or module, which provides access to
                 settings for device 100 and its various applications 136.
[0130]      It should be noted that the icon labels illustrated in Figure 4A are merely
exemplary. For example, icon 422 for video and music player module 152 are labeled
"Music" or "Music Player." Other labels are, optionally, used for various application
                                                 35

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
icons. In some embodiments, a label for a respective application icon includes a name of
an application corresponding to the respective application icon. In some embodiments, a
label for a particular application icon is distinct from a name of an application
corresponding to the particular application icon.
[0131]      Figure 4B illustrates an exemplary user interface on a device (e.g., device 300,
Figure 3) with a touch-sensitive surface 451 (e.g., a tablet or touchpad 355, Figure 3) that
is separate from the display 450 (e.g., touch screen display 112). Device 300 also,
optionally, includes one or more contact intensity sensors (e.g., one or more of sensors
357) for detecting intensity of contacts on touch-sensitive surface 451 and/or one or more
tactile output generators 359 for generating tactile outputs for a user of device 300.
[0132]      Although some of the examples which follow will be given with reference to
inputs on touch screen display 112 (where the touch sensitive surface and the display are
combined), in some embodiments, the device detects inputs on a touch-sensitive surface
that is separate from the display, as shown in Figure 4B. In some embodiments the touch
sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) has a primary axis (e.g., 452 in Figure 4B) that
corresponds to a primary axis (e.g., 453 in Figure 4B) on the display (e.g., 450). In
accordance with these embodiments, the device detects contacts (e.g., 460 and 462 in
Figure 4B) with the touch-sensitive surface 451 at locations that correspond to respective
locations on the display (e.g., in Figure 4B, 460 corresponds to 468 and 462 corresponds
to 470). In this way, user inputs (e.g., contacts 460 and 462, and movements thereof)
detected by the device on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., 451 in Figure 4B) are used by
the device to manipulate the user interface on the display (e.g., 450 in Figure 4B) of the
multifunction device when the touch-sensitive surface is separate from the display. It
should be understood that similar methods are, optionally, used for other user interfaces
described herein.
[0133]      Additionally, while the following examples are given primarily with reference
to finger inputs (e.g., finger contacts, finger tap gestures, finger swipe gestures), it should
be understood that, in some embodiments, one or more of the finger inputs are replaced
with input from another input device (e.g., a mouse based input or stylus input). For
example, a swipe gesture is, optionally, replaced with a mouse click (e.g., instead of a
contact) followed by movement of the cursor along the path of the swipe (e.g., instead of
movement of the contact). As another example, a tap gesture is, optionally, replaced with
a mouse click while the cursor is located over the location of the tap gesture (e.g., instead
                                                 36

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
of detection of the contact followed by ceasing to detect the contact). Similarly, when
multiple user inputs are simultaneously detected, it should be understood that multiple
computer mice are, optionally, used simultaneously, or a mouse and finger contacts are,
optionally, used simultaneously.
[0134]       As used herein, the term "focus selector" refers to an input element that
indicates a current part of a user interface with which a user is interacting. In some
implementations that include a cursor or other location marker, the cursor acts as a "focus
selector," so that when an input (e.g., a press input) is detected on a touch-sensitive
surface (e.g., touchpad 355 in Figure 3 or touch-sensitive surface 451 in Figure 4B) while
the cursor is over a particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or
other user interface element), the particular user interface element is adjusted in
accordance with the detected input. In some implementations that include a touch-screen
display (e.g., touch- sensitive display system 112 in Figure 1A or touch screen 112 in
Figure 4A) that enables direct interaction with user interface elements on the touch-screen
display, a detected contact on the touch-screen acts as a "focus selector," so that when an
input (e.g., a press input by the contact) is detected on the touch-screen display at a
location of a particular user interface element (e.g., a button, window, slider or other user
interface element), the particular user interface element is adjusted in accordance with the
detected input. In some implementations focus is moved from one region of a user
interface to another region of the user interface without corresponding movement of a
cursor or movement of a contact on a touch-screen display (e.g., by using a tab key or
arrow keys to move focus from one button to another button); in these implementations,
the focus selector moves in accordance with movement of focus between different regions
of the user interface. Without regard to the specific form taken by the focus selector, the
focus selector is generally the user interface element (or contact on a touch-screen display)
that is controlled by the user so as to communicate the user's intended interaction with the
user interface (e.g., by indicating, to the device, the element of the user interface with
which the user is intending to interact). For example, the location of a focus selector (e.g.,
a cursor, a contact or a selection box) over a respective button while a press input is
detected on the touch-sensitive surface (e.g., a touchpad or touch screen) will indicate that
the user is intending to activate the respective button (as opposed to other user interface
elements shown on a display of the device).
                                                 37

  WO 2014/197339                                                        PCT/US2014/040415
[0135]      Figure 5A illustrates a block diagram of an operating environment 500 in
accordance with some embodiments. Operating environment 500 includes a server 510,
one or more communications networks 505, portable multifunction device 100, and
external information presentation system 540. In some embodiments, external information
presentation system 540 is an entertainment and/or navigation system that is implemented
in a vehicle. In some embodiments, external information presentation system 540 includes
one or more displays. In some embodiments, a vehicle includes a plurality of external
information presentation system 540 communicatively coupled to device 100 in operating
environment 500 each with a respective display.
[0136]      Server 510 typically includes one or more processing units (CPUs) 512 for
executing modules, programs and/or instructions stored in memory 524 and thereby
performing processing operations, one or more network or other communications
interfaces 520, memory 524, and one or more communication buses 522 for
interconnecting these components. Communication buses 522 optionally include circuitry
(sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls communications between
system components. Memory 524 includes high-speed random access memory, such as
DRAM, SRAM, DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices, and may
include non-volatile memory, such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices, optical
disk storage devices, flash memory devices, or other non-volatile solid state storage
devices. Memory 524 optionally includes one or more storage devices remotely located
from the CPU(s) 512. Memory 524, or alternately the non-volatile memory device(s)
within memory 524, comprises a non-transitory computer readable storage medium. In
some embodiments, memory 524, or the computer readable storage medium of memory
524 stores the following programs, modules, and data structures, or a subset thereof:
        *       an operating system 526 that includes procedures for handling various basic
        system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks; and
        *       a network communication module 528 that is used for connecting (wired or
        wireless) server 510 to other computing devices via the one or more communication
        network interfaces 520 and one or more communication networks 505, such as the
        Internet, other wide area networks, local area networks, metropolitan area networks,
        and so on.
[0137]      Portable multifunction device 100 (sometimes herein also called "device 100")
typically includes the components described with reference to Figures lA-lB and/or 3.
                                               38

1002001724
[01381        External information presentation system 540 (sometimes herein also called
"system 540") typically includes one or more processing units (CPUs) 542 for executing
modules, programs and/or instructions stored in memory 554 and thereby performing
processing operations, one or more network or other communications interfaces 550,
memory 554, and one or more communication buses 552 for interconnecting these
components. External information presentation system 540, optionally, includes a user
interface 544 comprising one or more display devices 546 and a plurality of controls 548
(e.g., jog dials, knobs, buttons, switches, a touch-sensitive surface such as a touch screen
display, or other input sources). In some embodiments, the one or more displays 546
include a primary display 546-1 (e.g., a dashboard or vehicle navigation display) and an
auxiliary display 546-2 (e.g., a rear-seat or entertainment display). In some embodiments, a
respective display of the one or more displays 546 is a touch screen display that is capable
of receiving user touch inputs (e.g., detecting finger contacts and gestures that correspond
to the detection and movement of finger contacts). In some embodiments, a respective
display of the one or more displays 546 is associated with one or more controls of the
plurality of controls 548 (e.g., jog dials, knobs, buttons, switches, a touch-sensitive surface
such as a touch screen display, or other input sources.). Communication buses 552
optionally include circuitry (sometimes called a chipset) that interconnects and controls
communications between system components. Memory 554 includes high-speed random
access memory, such as DRAM, SRAM, DDR RAM or other random access solid state
memory devices, and, optionally, includes non-volatile memory, such as one or more
magnetic disk storage devices, optical disk storage devices, flash memory devices, or other
non-volatile solid state storage devices. Memory 554 optionally includes one or more
storage devices remotely located from the CPU(s) 542. Memory 552, or alternately the
non-volatile memory device(s) within memory 552, comprises a non-transitory computer
readable storage medium. In some embodiments, memory 552, or the computer readable
storage medium of memory 552 stores the following programs, modules, and data
structures, or a subset thereof:
         -       an operating system 556 that includes procedures for handling various basic
         system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks; and
         -       a network communication module 558 that is used for connecting (wired or
         wireless) server 510 to other computing devices via the one or more communication
         network interfaces 550 and one or more communication networks 505, such as the
                                                39

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
        Internet, other wide area networks, local area networks, metropolitan area networks,
         and so on.
[0139]       In some embodiments, device 100 drives the one or more displays 546 of
system 540. For example, device 100 sends a video signal to system 540, and CPU 542 of
system 540 renders the video signal on the one or more displays 546. In some
embodiments, device 100 sends a video signal directly to the one or more displays 546
and CPU 542 is not used to render the video signal (e.g., device 100 uses display 546 as
an auxiliary display). In some embodiments, the user interface displayed on touch screen
 112 of device 100 is synchronized with the user interface displayed on the one or more
displays 546 of system 540, and, in some other embodiments, the user interface displayed
on touch screen 112 of device 100 is not continuously synchronized with the user
interface displayed on the one or more displays 546 of system 540 and at times (e.g.,
while a user of device 100 is viewing information about possible driving destinations but
has not yet selected a driving destination) touchscreen 112 of device 100 displays different
information from that displayed on display 546 of system 540 (e.g., touch screen 112 and
display 546 are intermittently synchronized with periods in between the intermittent
synchronization events where they are not synchronized).
[0140]       In some embodiments, in response to detecting a user input (e.g., a user touch
input associated with a respective display of the one or more displays 546 or a user input
associated with a respective control of the plurality of controls 548), system 540 (or the
respective display of the one or more displays 546, or the respective control of the
plurality of controls 548) sends input information (e.g., an identifier for the input source
and an input description describing the user input) corresponding to the user input to
device 100. In turn, device 100 updates the user interface displayed on the respective
display of the one or more displays 546 and/or touch screen 112 of device 100 in
accordance with the received input information and/or the display state of the user
interface displayed on the respective display of the one or more displays 546 at or before
the user input.
[0141]       Figure 5B is a flow diagram illustrating a process of selecting an affected
display and sending update information to the affected display. The affected display (e.g.,
primary display 546-1) displays (560) a user interface. A respective input source (e.g., jog
dial 675 shown in Figures 6W-6FF) that is a control of system 540 detects (561) a user
input (e.g., rotation of jog dial 675). In some embodiments, the respective input source is
                                                40

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
one of controls 548 and the user input is an interaction with one of controls 548. For
example, controls 548 include buttons, switches, dials, knobs, other mechanical
affordances, touch-sensitive surfaces, or other input sources. For example, the user input
is rotation of a knob or dial, depression of an affordance or knob, a touch input detected
on a touch- sensitive surface or touch screen, or other user interaction with controls 548.
[0142]       In response to detecting the user input, the respective input source sends (562)
input information (e.g., {Source ID; Input Description}) to device 100. In some
embodiments, the input information includes a unique identifier for the input source and
input description information that describes the user input. For example, the input
description information is raw input data such as the magnitude and direction of rotation
of a jog dial, contact locations and movement amounts/directions detected on a touch
sensitive surface and/or gesture data describing a type of gesture that was performed on
the touch- sensitive surface.
[0143]       Device 100 receives (564) the input information from the respective input
source. Device 100 selects an affected display by correlating the unique identifier (e.g.,
source ID) included in the input information with a display identifier tag (e.g., a display
ID) based at least in part on input-source mapping 566. In some embodiments, the input
source mapping 566 is stored in memory of device 100. For example, device 100
associates rotation of jog dial 675 with a first display (e.g., display 546-1 in Figures 6W
6CC) based on input-source mapping 566 when jog dial 675 is associated with the first
display. Alternatively, when jog dial 675 is associated with a second display (e.g., display
546-2 in Figures 6DD-6FF), device 100 associates rotation of jog dial 675 with the second
display. In some embodiments, multiple inputs sources are mapped to a same display.
However, in some embodiments, each input source is mapped no more than a single
display. In some embodiments, input-source mapping 566 is updated by device 100 in
response to detecting input-source-mapping update events (e.g., a vehicle associated with
the first display starting to back up and taking control of the first display, or an input
associating a jog dial with the second display instead of the first display) and/or in
accordance with a predetermined schedule.
[0144]       After selecting the affected display, device 100 determines a respective state of
the user interface displayed on the affected display by correlating the display ID
(determined based on input-source mapping 566) for the affected display with display
state information (e.g., what kind of user interface is displayed in the display, what user
                                                41

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
interface elements are displayed, and/or which controls are associated with which
functions such as volume control or scrolling) based at least in part on user interface state
table 568. In some embodiments, the user interface state table 568 is stored in memory of
device 100. After determining the respective state of the user interface displayed on the
affected display, device 100 generates (570) an updated user interface for the affected
display in accordance with the respective state of the user interface displayed on the
affected display and the input description information, and device 100 sends the updated
user interface (or information for generating an updated user interface) to the affected
display. In some embodiments, device 100 also updates user interface state table 568 so
that the state information associated with the display ID corresponding to the affected
display reflects the updated user interface (e.g., for use in responding to subsequent input
information received from the input source).
[0145]       In response to receiving the updated user interface (e.g., update information)
from device 100, the affected display updates (574), the user interface displayed on the
affected displayed so as to display the updated user interface (e.g., by replacing an image
of a user interface previously provided by device 100 with an updated image of the user
interface provided by device 100 in the update information).
                   USER INTERFACES AND ASSOCIATED PROCESSES
[0146]       Attention is now directed towards embodiments of user interfaces ("UI") and
associated processes that may be implemented on an electronic device with a display and
a touch-sensitive surface, such as device 300 or portable multifunction device 100.
[0147]       Figures 6A-6V illustrate exemplary user interfaces for synchronizing two or
more displays in accordance with some embodiments. The user interfaces in these figures
are used to illustrate the processes described below, including the processes in Figures
7A- 7D and 8A-8B.
[0148]       Figure 6A illustrates user interface 602 displayed on touch screen 112 of
portable multifunction device 100 (sometimes herein also called "device 100"). User
interface 602 includes a plurality of user interface objects (e.g., application icons 424,
426, 428, 430, 434, 436, 438, 446, 416, 418, 420, and 422). Figure 6A also illustrates
detecting user touch input 606 over the maps application icon 436 on touch screen 112.
[0149]       Figure 6A further illustrates user interface 604 displayed on display 546-1 of
external information presentation system 540 (sometimes herein also called "system
                                                 42

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
540"). In some embodiments, system 540 is included in a vehicle (e.g., in the dashboard
or steering wheel of the vehicle). In some embodiments, display 546-1 is a primary
display of a plurality of displays associated with system 540. In some embodiments,
display 546-1 is implemented in the dashboard of the vehicle and is visually accessible to
the driver and/or passenger of the vehicle. In some embodiments, display 546-1 is a touch
screen display configured to detect one or more user touch inputs. Figure 6A illustrates
display 546-1 displaying a plurality of climate controls in user interface 604 including the
outside temperature (e.g., 820), the temperature in the driver's zone of the vehicle (e.g.,
700), the temperature in the passenger's zone of the vehicle( e.g., 750), the fan intensity in
the driver's zone of the vehicle (e.g., 2 on a 0-10 scale), and the fan intensity in the
passenger's zone of the vehicle (e.g., 5 on a 0-10 scale). Figure 6A also illustrates display
546-1 displaying a plurality of user interface objects (sometimes herein called
"affordances" or "selectable user interface objects") enabled to adjust the temperature in a
respective zone of the vehicle (e.g., affordances 603a, 603b, 603c, and 603d), a plurality
of user interface objects enabled to adjust the fan intensity in a respective zone of the
vehicle (e.g., affordances 603e, 603f, 603g, and 603h), and a plurality of user interface
objects enabled to adjust other vehicle climate control settings (e.g., affordances 605a
related to air conditioning, 605b related to windshield defrost, 605c related to rear window
defrost, and 605d related to automatic climate control). Figure 6A further illustrates a
plurality of mechanical affordances configured to control the volume of the sound system
of the vehicle or to scroll one or more user interface objects on display 546-1 (e.g., knob
or jog dial 607c), and the radio tuner of the vehicle (e.g., affordances 607a, 607b, 607d,
and 607e).
[0150]      Figure 6B illustrates touch screen 112 displaying current location 608 of
device 100 in a map application in user interface 602 of touch screen 112 in response to
detecting user touch input 606 over the maps application icon 436 in Figure 6A. In some
embodiments detecting a user touch input over a respective affordance corresponds to
detecting a tap gesture on the respective affordance, where the tap gesture includes
detecting a contact at a location that corresponds to the respective affordance and
detecting liftoff of the contact within a predetermined time period (e.g., 0.05. 0.1, 0.2, 03,
0.4 or 0.5 seconds). In some embodiments, the map displayed in user interface 602 is not
to scale. Figure 6B also illustrates detecting user touch input 610 over search box 609 on
touch screen 112.
                                                43

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0151]      Figure 6B further illustrates displaying, on display 546-1, a current location
608 of device 100 in a map displayed in user interface 604 in response to detecting user
touch input 606 over the maps application icon 436 in Figure 6A. In some embodiments,
the map displayed in user interface 604 is not to scale. Affordance 612, also displayed in
user interface 604, when activated, causes the device to invoke a digital assistant (e.g., Siri
from Apple Inc. of Cupertino, California). Figure 6B also illustrates compass 611
indicating the orientation of the map displayed in user interface 604 (e.g., the map is
oriented with the top of display 546-1 being north). In some implementations, the font size
of information displayed in user interface 604 of display 546-1 is larger than the font size
of information displayed in user interface 602 of touch screen 112. For example, when
system 540 is located in a vehicle, the text on display 546-1 is generated so as to be larger
than on touch screen 112 of device 100 to enable greater readability while the driver and
passenger(s) of the vehicle are at arm's length of display 546-1.
[0152]      Figure 6C illustrates displaying a user search query (e.g., dry cleaning) input in
search box 609 of user interface 602. In one example, the user manually inputs the search
query with a virtual keyboard in user interface 602 of device 100. In another example, the
search query is a speech input received from the user of device 100. Figure 6C further
illustrates maintaining display of user interface 604 from Figure 6B on display 546-1.
[0153]      Figure 6D illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b nearby current location 608 of
device 100 in user interface 602 in response to input of the search query in Figure 6C. In
some embodiments, a search result (or establishment) matching the user's search query is
automatically selected (e.g., ABC Cleaners) based on proximity, the establishment's
ratings, the amount of reviews, the amount of times the user has frequented the
establishment, and/or other factors. In Figure 6D, information box 613 corresponding to
automatically selected dry cleaner represented by pin 614a is also displayed in user
interface 602. Information box 613 includes the dry cleaning establishment's name (e.g.,
ABC Cleaners), the rating of the establishment (e.g., 3 out of 5 stars), the amount of user
reviews for the establishment (e.g., 100 reviews), and affordance 613a configured to
display additional information corresponding to the establishment. In some embodiments,
information box 613, when activated, causes the device to display additional information
corresponding to the establishment in response to a user touch input anywhere in
information box 613. In some other embodiments, information box 613, when activated,
                                                44

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
causes the device to display additional information corresponding to the establishment in
response to a user touch input over affordance 613a. Figure 6D also illustrates detecting
user touch input 615 over affordance 613a on touch screen 112.
[0154]       Figure 6D further illustrates displaying suggested route 616 from current
location 608 of device 100 to the automatically selected search result (e.g., dry cleaner
represented by pin 614a corresponding to ABC cleaners) in user interface 604 in response
to input of the search query in Figure 6C. In Figure 6D, user interface 604 includes route
616, turn-by-turn directions box 617 indicating the user's first direction (or turn) on route
616 and the name of the destination (e.g., ABC Cleaners), and "start directions"
affordance 618 configured to initiate a turn-by-turn direction mode in which the device
would provide turn- by-turn directions to ABC Cleaners using visual and/or spoken
prompts. Figure 6D also illustrates compass 611 indicating the orientation of the map
displayed in user interface 604 (e.g., the map is oriented with the top of display 546-1
being south, so that the direction that the vehicle is instructed to drive in the turn-by-turn
directions is oriented toward a top of display 546-1).
[0155]       Figure 6E illustrates displaying additional information corresponding to ABC
Cleaners in user interface 602 in response to detecting user touch input 615 over
affordance 613a in Figure 6D. In Figure 6E, user interface 602 includes information
identifying the hours of operation of ABC Cleaners, the home page (or website) for ABC
Cleaners, the phone number for ABC Cleaners, and the address for ABC Cleaners. In
Figure 6E, user interface 602 also includes affordance 619 configured to display directions
from the device's current location to ABC Cleaners and affordance 620 configured to
display directions from ABC Cleaners to the device's current location. Figure 6E also
illustrates detecting user touch input 621 over affordance 619 on touch screen 112. Figure
6E further illustrates maintaining display of user interface 604 from Figure 6D on display
546-1.
[0156]       Figure 6F illustrates displaying an interface in user interface 602 for inputting
a start point and an end point for a route in response to detecting user touch input 621 over
affordance 619 on touch screen 112 in Figure 6E. In Figure 6F, user interface 602 includes
the address of the start point of the route in box 622a (e.g., the current location of device
 100) and the address of the end point of the route in box 622b (e.g., ABC Cleaners, 1660
40th Avenue, San Francisco, CA). In Figure 6F, box 622a and/or box 622b are enabled to
be edited with virtual keyboard 624 displayed in user interface 602 or, alternatively, with
                                                45

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
a speech input. Affordance 622c, when activated, causes the device to replace the location
entered in box 622a with the location in box 622b and to replace the location entered in
box 622b with the location in box 622a. In Figure 6F, user interface 602 includes
selectable routes 623 from device 100's current location to previously entered
destinations. In Figure 6F, user interface 602 further includes affordances 627a, 627b, and
627c configured to select different modes of transportation for route calculation. For
example, in Figure 6F, the "walk" mode of transportation is currently selected as shown
by the highlighted frame around affordance 627b. Figure 6F also illustrates displaying a
"route" affordance 626a configured to calculate one or more routes from the start point in
box 622a to the end point in box 622b and a "cancel" affordance 626b configured to clear
the locations entered in boxes 622a and 622b or to redisplay user interface 602 displayed
in Figure 6D. Figure 6F further illustrates detecting user touch input 628 over "route"
affordance 626a on touch screen 112. Figure 6F further illustrates maintaining display of
user interface 604 from Figure 6D on display 546-1.
[0157]      Figure 6G illustrates displaying two suggested routes from current location 608
of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a in user interface 602 in response
to detecting user touch input 628 over "route" affordance 626a on touch screen 112 in
Figure 6F. In Figure 6G, dialogue box 629 indicates that the currently selected, first of
two suggested routes will take 10 minutes and 0.2 miles for the user to walk from the
current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a. In Figure
6G, the first route 63 1a is highlighted in user interface 602, and "route 1" affordance
631b, when activated, causes the device to select (and highlight) route 631a. In Figure 6G,
route 631 a displayed in user interface 602 is the same as route 616 displayed in user
interface 604 but in a different orientation. Figure 6G also illustrates displaying route 632a
in user interface 602 and "route 2" affordance 632b configured to select (and highlight)
route 632a. In Figure 6G, "start" affordance 630a, when activated, causes the device to
start turn-by- turn directions to the currently selected (or highlighted) route (e.g., route
631a), and "clear" affordance 630b, when activated, causes the device to clear the
displayed routes (e.g., routes 631a and 632a) from user interface 602 and to display search
box 609 in user interface 602. Figure 6G further illustrates detecting user touch input 633
over "start" affordance 630a on touch screen 112. Figure 6G further illustrates
maintaining display of user interface 604 from Figure 6D on display 546-1. In some
embodiments, when device 100 is connected to display 546-1 and display 546-1 is a
                                                46

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
vehicle display, device 100 displays driving directions rather than walking directions on
both touch screen 112 and on display 546-1.
[0158]       Figure 6H illustrates displaying turn-by-turn directions box 634 indicating the
user's first direction (or turn) on route 631a and the name of the destination (e.g., ABC
Cleaners) in user interface 602 in response to detecting user touch input 633 over "start"
affordance 630a in Figure 6G. In some embodiments, turn-by-turn directions box 634
occupies the entirety of touch screen 112. Figure 6H also illustrates detecting user touch
input 635 on touch screen 112.
[0159]       Figure 6H further illustrates displaying a turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 in response to device 100 detecting user touch input 633 over start
affordance 630a in Figure 6G. In Figure 6H, while in the turn-by-turn mode, the current
location of device 100 is displayed as marker 636 in user interface 604. In some
embodiments, the turn- by-turn direction mode displayed in Figure 6H is further zoomed
into the map displayed in user interface 604 in comparison to the map displayed in Figures
6D-6G (e.g., the map displayed on touch screen 112 is at a lower magnification level than
the map displayed on display 546-1).
[0160]       Figure 61 illustrates displaying dialogue box 637 in user interface 602 in
response to detecting user touch input 635 on touch screen 112 in Figure 6H. In Figure 61,
dialogue box 637 includes "pause" affordance 638a configured to pause turn-by-turn
directions and "back" affordance 638b configured to display the results from the most
recent search query (e.g., dry cleaners nearby device 100's current location) within maps
application 436. Figure 61 also illustrates detecting user touch input 639 over "back"
affordance 638b. Figure 61 further illustrates maintaining display of user interface 604
from Figure 6H on display 546-1.
[0161]       Figure 61 illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b nearby current location 608 of
device 100 in user interface 602 (e.g., corresponding to the most recent search query in
maps application 436 from Figure 6C) in response to user touch input 639 (e.g., a tap
input) over "back" affordance 638b in Figure 61. Figure 61 also illustrates detecting a
pinch gesture that includes movement of contacts 640 and 641 on touch screen 112.
Figure 61 further illustrates maintaining display of user interface 604 from Figure 6H on
display 546-1.
                                                 47

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0162]      Figure 6K illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a, 614b, 614c, and 614d nearby current
location 608 of device 100 in user interface 602 in response to detecting the pinch gesture
in Figure 61. For example, in Figure 6K, the map is zoomed out (e.g., displayed at a lower
magnification level) in response to the pinch gesture, and a larger area of the map is
displayed in user interface 602. Figure 6K also illustrates detecting a swipe gesture
(sometimes herein also called a "drag gesture") with user touch input 642 moving from
position 642a to position 642b on touch screen 112. Figure 6K further illustrates
maintaining display of user interface 604 from Figure 6H on display 546-1 (e.g., user
interface 604 is not zoomed out in response to detecting the pinch gesture on touch screen
display 112).
[0163]      Figure 6L illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a, 614b, 614c, 614e and 614fnearby current
location 608 of device 100 in user interface 602 in response to detecting the swipe gesture
in Figure 6K. For example, the map is translated in a north-eastward direction in response
to the swipe gesture in Figure 6K. Figure 6L also illustrates detecting user touch input 643
over the user interface object (e.g., the pin) associated with the dry cleaners represented by
pins 614b on touch screen 112. Figure 6L further illustrates maintaining display of user
interface 604 from Figure 6H on display 546-1 (e.g., user interface 604 is not scrolled in
response to detecting the swipe gesture on touch screen display 112).
[0164]      Figure 6M illustrates displaying information box 644 corresponding to the dry
cleaner represented by pin 614b in user interface 602 in response to detecting user touch
input 643 over the user interface object (e.g., the pin) associated with the dry cleaners
represented by pins 614b in Figure 6L. In Figure 6M, information box 644 includes the
dry cleaning establishment's name (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners), the rating of the
establishment (e.g., 5 out of 5 stars), the amount of user reviews for the establishment
(e.g., 927 reviews), and affordance 644a optionally includes additional information
corresponding to the establishment. Figure 6M also illustrates detecting user touch input
645 over affordance 644a on touch screen 112. Figure 6M further illustrates maintaining
display of user interface 604 from Figure 6H on display 546-1.
[0165]      Figure 6N illustrates displaying additional information corresponding to Mary
Ann's Cleaners in user interface 602 in response to detecting user touch input 645 over
affordance 644a in Figure 6M. In Figure 6N, user interface 602 includes information
                                                48

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
identifying the hours of operation of Mary Ann's Cleaners, the home page (or website) for
Mary Ann's Cleaners, the phone number for Mary Ann's Cleaners, and the address for
Mary Ann's Cleaners. In Figure 6N, user interface 602 also includes affordance 646
configured to display directions from the device's current location to Mary Ann's
Cleaners and affordance 647 configured to display directions from Mary Ann's Cleaners
to the device's current location. Figure 6N also illustrates detecting user touch input 648
over affordance 646 on touch screen 112. Figure 6N further illustrates maintaining display
of user interface 604 from Figure 6H on display 546-1.
[0166]      Figure 60 illustrates displaying an interface in user interface 602 for inputting a
start point and an end point for a route in response to detecting user touch input 648 over
affordance 646 on touch screen 112 in Figure 6N. In Figure 60, user interface 602
includes the address of the start point of the route in box 649a (e.g., the current location of
device 100) and the address of the end point of the route in box 649b (e.g., Mary Ann's
Cleaners, 1291 Judah Street, San Francisco, CA). In Figure 60, box 649a and/or box 649b
are enabled to be edited with virtual keyboard 651 displayed in user interface 602 or,
alternatively, with a speech input. Affordance 649c, when activated, causes the device to
replace the location entered in box 649a with the location in box 649b and to replace the
location entered in box 649b with the location in box 649a. In Figure 60, user interface
602 includes selectable routes 650 from the device's current location to previously entered
destinations. In Figure 60, user interface 602 further includes affordances 653a, 653b, and
653c configured to select different modes of transportation for route calculation. For
example, in Figure 60, the "walk" mode of transportation is currently selected as shown
by the highlighted frame around affordance 653b. Figure 60 also illustrates displaying a
"route" affordance 652a configured to calculate one or more routes from the start point in
box 649a to the end point in box 649b and a "'cancel" affordance 652b configured to clear
the locations entered in boxes 649a and 649b or to redisplay user interface 602 displayed
in Figure 6M. Figure 60 further illustrates detecting user touch input 655 over "route"
affordance 654 (e.g., an affordance included in virtual keyboard 651) on touch screen 112.
In some embodiments, "route" affordance 654, when activated, causes the device to
calculate and/or display one or more routes from the start point in box 649a to the end
point in box 649b (e.g., "route" affordance 654 functions similarly to "route" affordance
652a). Figure 60 further illustrates maintaining display of user interface 604 from Figure
6H on display 546-1.
                                                49

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0167]       Figure 6P illustrates displaying two suggested routes from current location 608
of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b in user interface 602 in response
to detecting user touch input 655 over "route" affordance 654 on touch screen 112 in
Figure 60. In Figure 6P, user interface 602 dialogue box 656 indicating that the
automatically selected, first of two suggested routes will take 5 minutes and 0.4 miles for
the user to walk from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by
pin 614b. In Figure 6P, the first route 658a is highlighted in user interface 602, and "route
 1" affordance 658b, when activated, causes the device to select (and highlight) route 658b.
In Figure 6P, "start" affordance 657a, when activated, causes the device to start turn-by
turn directions to the currently selected (or highlighted) route (e.g., route 658a), and
"clear" affordance 657b, when activated, causes the device to clear the displayed routes
(e.g., routes 658a and 659a) from user interface 602 and to display search box 609 in user
interface 602. Figure 6P further illustrates detecting user touch input 660 over "route 2"
affordance 659b on touch screen 112. Figure 6P further illustrates maintaining display of
user interface 604 from Figure 6H on display 546-1.
[0168]       Figure 6Q illustrates displaying route 659a (route 2) as the selected (or
highlighted) route in response to detecting touch input 660 over "route 2" affordance 659b
in Figure 6P. In Figure 6Q, user interface 602 includes dialogue box 656 indicating that
the second of the two suggested routes will take 6 minutes and 0.4 miles for the user to
walk from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b.
Figure 6Q further illustrates detecting user touch input 661 over "start" affordance 657a
on touch screen 112. Figure 6Q further illustrates maintaining display of user interface
604 from Figure 6H on display 546-1.
[0169]       Figure 6R illustrates displaying turn-by-turn directions box 662 indicating the
user's first direction (or turn) on route 659a and the name of the destination (e.g., Mary
Ann's Cleaners) in user interface 602 in response to detecting user touch input 661 over
"start" affordance 657a in Figure 6Q. In some embodiments, turn-by-turn directions box
662 occupies the entirety of touch screen 112.
[0170]       Figure 6R further illustrates displaying a turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 in response to detecting user touch input 661 over "start" affordance 657a in
Figure 6Q (e.g., even though user interface 604 was not previously synchronized with user
interface 602 in response to prior inputs, when a destination and route are selected and
turn- by-turn directions commence, the device synchronizes user interface 602 and user
                                                 50

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
interface 604 so that both user interfaces show directions to the same destination using the
same route). In Figure 6R, user interface 604 includes route 659a, turn-by-turn directions
box 663 indicating the user's first direction (or turn) on route 659a and the name of the
destination (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners), and marker 654 indicating the current location of
device 100. Figure 6R also illustrates compass 611 indicating the orientation of the map
displayed in user interface 604 (e.g., the map is oriented with the top of display 546-1
being east). Figure 6R further illustrates detecting user touch input 665 on display 546-1.
[0171]       Figure 6S illustrates displaying dialogue box 637 in user interface 602 in
response to detecting user touch input 665 on display 546-1 in Figure 6R. In Figure 6S,
dialogue box 637 includes "pause" affordance 638a configured to pause turn-by-turn
directions and "back" affordance 638b configured to display the results from the most
recent search query (e.g., dry cleaners nearby device 100's current location) within maps
application 436.
[0172]       Figure 6S further illustrates displaying affordance 612 in user interface 604 in
response to detecting user touch input 665 on display 546-1 in Figure 6R. Affordance 612,
when activated, causes the device to invoke a digital assistant (e.g., Siri from Apple Inc.
of Cupertino, California). Figure 6S also illustrates detecting user touch input 666 over
affordance 612 on display 546-1. In response to detecting user touch input 666 over
affordance 612, a digital assistant is invoked, and the digital assistant audibly prompts the
user asking, "What may I help you with?" In response to the prompt, the user audibly, for
example, asks the digital assistant, "Show me nearby coffee houses." Alternatively, in
some embodiments, the digital assistant is invoked by a predetermined audible command
(e.g., "Hey, Siri").
[0173]       Figure 6T illustrates maintaining display of user interface 602 from Figure 6S
on touch screen 112. Figure 6T further illustrates displaying digital assistant dialogue box
667 in user interface 604. digital assistant dialogue box 667 indicates that the digital
assistant is searching for coffee houses in response to the user's audible request (e.g.,
"Show me nearby coffee houses.").
[0174]       Figure 6U illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with coffee houses 668a and 668b nearby current location 608 of device 100 in user
interface 602 in response to the user's audible request (e.g., "Show me nearby coffee
houses."). In some embodiments, a search result (or establishment) matching the audible
request is automatically selected (e.g., Java Haus) based on proximity, the establishment's
                                                 51

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
ratings, the amount of reviews, the amount of times the user has frequented the
establishment, and/or other factors. In Figure 6U, information box 669 corresponding to
automatically selected coffee house 668a is also displayed in user interface 602.
Information box 669 includes the coffee house's name (e.g., Java Haus), the rating of the
establishment (e.g., 4 out of5 stars), the amount of user reviews for the establishment (e.g.,
320 reviews), and affordance 669a configured to display additional information
corresponding to the establishment. Providing additional information in user interface 602
enables a passenger of a vehicle who is operating device 100 to provide additional
information to a driver of the vehicle and/or select a destination based on the additional
information provided in user interface 602.
[0175]       Figure 6U further illustrates displaying suggested route 671 from the current
location 608 of device 100 to coffee house 668a (e.g., Java Haus) in user interface 604 in
response to the user's audible request (e.g., "Show me nearby coffee houses."). In some
embodiments, a route for the automatically selected search result is displayed in user
interface 604. In Figure 6U, user interface 604 includes route 671, turn-by-turn directions
box 670 indicating the user's first direction (or turn) on route 671 and the name of the
destination (e.g., Java Haus), and "start directions" affordance 618 configured to initiate a
turn-by-turn mode. Figure 6U also illustrates compass 611 indicating the orientation of the
map displayed in user interface 604 (e.g., the map is oriented with the top of display 546-1
being north). Figure 6U further illustrates detecting user touch input 672 over "start
directions" affordance 618 on display 546-1.
[0176]       Figure 6V illustrates displaying turn-by-turn directions box 673 indicating the
user's first direction (or turn) on route 671 and the name of the destination (e.g., Java
Haus) in user interface 602 in response to detecting user touch input 672 over "start
directions" affordance 662 on display 546-1 in Figure 6U. In some embodiments, turn-by
turn directions box 673 occupies the entirety of touch screen 112.
[0177]       Figure 6V further illustrates displaying a turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 in response detecting user touch input 672 over "start directions" affordance
662 on display 546-1 in Figure 6U. In Figure 6V, while in the turn-by-turn mode, the
current location of device 100 is displayed as marker 674 in user interface 604. In some
embodiments, the turn-by-turn direction mode displayed in Figure 6V is further zoomed
into the map displayed in user interface 604 in comparison to the map displayed in Figure
6U.
                                                 52

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
[0178]      Figures 6W-6FF illustrate exemplary user interfaces for sending update
information to an affected display in accordance with some embodiments. The user
interfaces in these figures are used to illustrate the processes described below, including
the processes in Figures 9A-9C.
[0179]      Figure 6W illustrates two displays included in an external information
presentation system 540 (sometimes herein also called "system 540") that is
communicatively coupled to portable multifunction device 100 (sometimes herein also
called "device 100") in accordance with some embodiments. In some embodiments,
external information presentation system 540 is an entertainment and/or navigation system
that is implemented in a vehicle. In some embodiments, display 546-1 is associated with a
first external information presentation system 540-1, and display 546-2 is associated with
a second external information presentation system 540-2. In some embodiments, display
546- 1 is a primary display (e.g., a dashboard or vehicle navigation display), and display
546-2 is an auxiliary display (e.g., a rear-seat or entertainment display). In some
embodiments, display 546-1 and display 546-2 are touch-sensitive displays with touch
sensitive surfaces on the displays and are configured to receive one or more touch inputs.
Figure 6W also illustrates jog dial 675 (e.g., a depressible and/or rotatable mechanical
knob or dial) associated with system 540 configured to control one or both of display 546
 1 and display 546-2.
[0180]      Figure 6W illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b nearby current location 608 of
device 100 in a map/navigation application in user interface 604 of display 546-1. For
example, the pins are displayed in user interface 604 in response a search query (e.g., "dry
cleaning" input into search box 609 in user interface 602 of device 100 in Figure 6C). In
some embodiments, a search result (or establishment) matching the user's search query is
automatically selected (e.g., ABC Cleaners) based on proximity, the establishment's
ratings, the amount of reviews, the amount of times the user has frequented the
establishment, and other factors. In Figure 6W, destination information 678 corresponding
to automatically selected the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a is also displayed in user
interface 604. Destination information 678 includes the dry cleaning establishment's name
(e.g., ABC Cleaners), the rating of the establishment (e.g., 3 out of 5 stars), the amount of
user reviews for the establishment (e.g., 100 reviews), and the mileage from current
location 608 of device 100 to the establishment. In some embodiments, turn-by-turn
                                                 53

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
directions to the currently selected search result (e.g., the dry cleaner represented by pin
614a) are displayed in user interface 604 in response to a touch input anywhere inside of
the dialogue box associated with destination information 678 corresponding to dry cleaner
514a. In some other embodiments, turn-by-turn directions to the currently selected search
result (e.g., the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a) are displayed in user interface 604 in
response to depression of jog dial 675. Figure 6W also illustrates compass 611 indicating
the orientation of the map displayed in user interface 604 (e.g., the map is oriented with
the top of display 546-1 being north).
[0181]       Figure 6W illustrates detecting a pinch gesture with user touch inputs 679 and
680 on display 546-1. In response to detecting user touch inputs 679 and 680 (or the pinch
gesture), display 546-1 (or system 540) sends input information indicative of user touch
inputs 679 and 680 (or the pinch gesture) to device 100. The input information includes an
identifier associated with the touch-sensitive surface of display 546-1 (e.g., a unique
identifier associated with the touch-sensitive surface of display 546-1) and input
description information describing user touch inputs 679 and 680 (or the pinch gesture). In
some embodiments, input description information includes raw data describing user touch
inputs 679 and 680 such as the location of user touch inputs 679 and 680, the magnitude
of the movement of user touch inputs 679 and 680, the length of time that user touch
inputs 679 and 680 were detected, the surface area of user touch inputs 679 and 680,
and/or other information describing user touch inputs 679 and 680. In some other
embodiments, input description information includes data describing the pinch gesture
such as the type of gesture performed, the location of the gesture, the magnitude of the
movement of the gesture, and/or other information describing the gesture.
[0182]       In response to receiving the input information associated with user touch inputs
679 and 680 (or the pinch gesture), device 100 determines that the identifier included in
the input information is associated with display 546-1 (e.g., associating the touch event (or
the gesture) with the touch-sensitive surface of display 546-1) based on an input-source to
display mapping. After determining that the touch event detected in Figure 6W is
associated with display 546-1 (e.g., the affected display), device 100 also determines the
display state of display 546-1 shown in Figure 6W (e.g., user interface 604 is in a search
results or destination selection mode). In some embodiments, device 100 determines the
display state of a display based on information included in the input information. In some
                                                54

   WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
 other embodiments, device 100 determines the display state of a display by querying
 system 540 for such information.
 [0183]      Figure 6W further illustrates displaying a list of songs 677 corresponding to an
 album in a media player application in user interface 676 of display 546-2.
 [0184]      Figure 6X illustrates displaying user interface objects (e.g., pins) associated
with the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a, 614b, 614c, and 614d nearby current
location 608 of device 100 in user interface 604 of display 546-1. For example, the map
displayed in user interface 604 in Figure 6X is a zoomed out version of the map displayed
in user interface 604 in Figure 6W. Display 546-1 displays a zoomed out map in user
interface 604 in Figure 6X in response to receiving update information from device 100
including an updated user interface corresponding to the pinch gesture detected on display
 546-1 in Figure 6W and the display state of user interface 604 in Figure 6W (e.g., the
 search results or destination selection mode).
 [0185]      Figure 6X also illustrates detecting turn 681 (e.g., an approximately 90 degree
clockwise turn) of jog dial 675. In response to detecting turn 681, jog dial 675 (or system
 540) sends input information indicative of turn 681 to device 100. The input information
includes an identifier associated with jog dial 675 (e.g., a unique identifier associated with
jog dial 675) and input description information describing turn 681. For example, the
input description information includes raw data describing turn 681 such as the magnitude
 (90 degrees) and direction (clockwise) of the turn. In response to receiving the input
information associated with turn 681, device 100 determines that the identifier included in
the input information is associated with display 546-1 (e.g., associating the turn event with
jog dial 675 which is currently mapped to display 546-1) based on the input- source to
display mapping. After determining that the turn event detected in Figure 6X is associated
with display 546-1, device 100 also determines the display state of display 546-1 shown in
Figure 6X (e.g., user interface 604 is in a search results or destination selection mode).
Figure 6X further illustrates maintaining display of the list of songs 677 in user interface
 676 from Figure 6W on display 546-2 (e.g., user interface 676 is not updated in response
to rotation of jog dial 675 when jog dial 675 is not associated with the display on which
user interface 676 is displayed).
 [0186]      Figure 6Y illustrates displaying destination information 682 corresponding to
 selected the dry cleaner represented by pin 614d in user interface 604 of display 546-1. In
Figure 6Y, display 546-1 displays destination information 682 corresponding to selected
                                                 55

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
the dry cleaner represented by pin 614d (e.g., Suzie's Cleaners) in response to receiving
update information from device 100 including an updated user interface corresponding to
turn 681 detected by jog dial 675 in Figure 6X and the display state of user interface 604
in Figure 6X (e.g., the search results or destination selection mode). In some
embodiments, the destination information (and hence the selected destination) is scrolled
in accordance with the direction and magnitude of the turn of jog dial 675. For example,
when search results or a destination selection mode is displayed, a 90 degree turn of jog
dial 675 selects a next search result, a clockwise turn scrolls the search results north-to
south, and a counter- clockwise turn scrolls the search results south-to-north. In Figure
6Y, in response to detecting turn 681 (e.g., a 90 degree clockwise turn) of jog dial 675 in
Figure 6X, the dry cleaner represented by pin 614d is selected (or scrolled to) and
destination information 682 corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614d
(e.g., the next dry cleaner south of the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a displayed in
Figure 6X) is displayed in user interface 604.
[0187]       Figure 6Y also illustrates detecting turn 683 (e.g., an approximately 180 degree
counter-clockwise turn) of jog dial 675. In some embodiments, in response to detecting
turn 683, jog dial675 (or system 540) sends input information indicative of turn 683 to
device 100. The input information includes an identifier associated with jog dial 675 (e.g.,
a unique identifier associated with jog dial 675) and input description information
describing turn 683. For example, the input description information includes raw data
describing turn 683 such as the magnitude (180 degrees) and direction (counter
clockwise) of the turn. In response to receiving the input information associated with turn
683, device 100 determines that the identifier included in the input information is
associated with display 546-1 (e.g., associating the turn event with jog dial 675 which is
currently mapped to display 546-1) based on the input-source to display mapping. After
determining that the turn event detected in Figure 6Y is associated with display 546-1,
device 100 also determines the display state of display 546-1 shown in Figure 6Y (e.g.,
user interface 604 is in a search results or destination selection mode). Figure 6Y further
illustrates maintaining display of the list of songs 677 in user interface 676 from Figure
6W on display 546-2.
[0188]       Figure 6Z illustrates displaying destination information 684 corresponding to
selected the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners) in user
interface 604 of display 546-1. In Figure 6Z, display 546-1 displays destination
                                                 56

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
information 684 corresponding to selected the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b in
response to receiving update information from device 100 including an updated user
interface corresponding to turn 683 detected by jog dial 675 in Figure 6Y and the display
state of user interface 604 in Figure 6Y (e.g., the search results or destination selection
mode). In Figure 6Z, in response to detecting turn 683 (e.g., an 180 degree counter
clockwise turn) of jog dial 675 in Figure 6Y, the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b is
selected (or scrolled to) and destination information 684 corresponding to the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614b (e.g., two dry cleaners to the north of the dry cleaner represented
by pin 614d displayed in Figure 6Y) is displayed in user interface 604.
[0189]       Figure 6Z also illustrates detecting a press on, or depression of, jog dial 675
with user touch input 685. In some embodiments, in response to detecting user touch input
685, jog dial 675 (or system 540) sends input information indicative of user touch input
685 to device 100. The input information includes an identifier associated with jog dial
675 (e.g., a unique identifier associated with jog dial 675) and input description
information describing user touch input 685. For example, the input description
information includes raw data describing user touch input 685 such as the force of the
input and the amount of depression of jog dial 675. In response to receiving the input
information associated with user touch input 685, device 100 determines that the identifier
included in the input information is associated with display 546-1 (e.g., associating the
press or depression event with jog dial 675 which is currently mapped to display 546-1)
based on an input-source to display mapping. After determining that the depression event
detected in Figure 6Z is associated with display 546-1, device 100 also determines the
display state of display 546-1 shown in Figure 6Z (e.g., user interface 604 is in a search
results or destination selection mode). Figure 6Z further illustrates maintaining display of
the list of songs 677 in user interface 676 from Figure 6W on display 546-2.
[0190]       Figure 6AA illustrates displaying a turn-by-turn direction mode from marker
664 indicating the current location of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin
614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners) in user interface 604 of display 546-1. In Figure 6AA,
display 546-1 displays the turn-by-turn direction mode in user interface 604 in response to
receiving update information from device 100 including an updated user interface
corresponding to user touch input 685 detected by jog dial 675 in Figure 6Z and the
display state of user interface 604 in Figure 6Z (e.g., the search results or destination
selection mode). In Figure 6AA, in response to detecting user touch input 685 depressing
                                                 57

   WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
jog dial 675 in Figure 6Z, turn-by-turn directions from marker 664 indicating the current
location of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b (e.g., selected with turn
 683 of jog dial 675 in Figure 6Y) on route 659a are displayed in turn-by-turn directions
box 663 in user interface 604. Figure 6AA also illustrates compass 611 indicating the
 orientation of the map displayed in user interface 604 (e.g., the map is oriented with the
top of display 546-1 being east).
 [0191]      Figure 6AA also illustrates detecting turn 686 (e.g., an approximately 90
degree counter-clockwise turn) of jog dial 675. In response to detecting turn 686, jog dial
 675 (or system 540) sends input information indicative of turn 686 to device 100. The
input information includes an identifier associated with jog dial 675 (e.g., a unique
identifier associated with jog dial 675) and input description information describing turn
 686. For example, the input description information includes raw data describing turn 686
 such as the magnitude (90 degrees) and direction (counter-clockwise) of the turn. In
response to receiving the input information associated with turn 681, device 100
determines that the identifier included in the input information is associated with display
 546-1 (e.g., associating the turn event with jog dial 675 which is currently mapped to
display 546-1) based on the input-source to display mapping. After determining that the
turn event detected in Figure 6AA is associated with display 546-1, device 100 also
determines the display state of display 546-1 shown in Figure 6AA (e.g., user interface
 604 is in a turn-by-turn directions mode). Figure 6AA further illustrates maintaining
display of the list of songs 677 in user interface 676 from Figure 6W on display 546-2.
 [0192]      Figure 6BB illustrates displaying a turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 of display 546-1. For example, the turn-by-turn direction mode displayed in
user interface 604 in Figure 6BB is a zoomed out version of the turn-by-turn direction
mode displayed in user interface 604 in Figure 6AA. In figure 6BB, display 546-1
displays the zoomed out turn-by-turn direction mode in user interface 604 in Figure 6BB
in response to receiving update information from device 100 including an updated user
interface corresponding to turn 686 detected by jog dial 675 in Figure 6AA and the
display state of user interface 604 in Figure 6AA (e.g., the turn-by-turn directions mode).
Figure 6BB further illustrates maintaining display of the list of songs 677 in user interface
 676 from Figure 6W on display 546-2.
 [0193]      Figure 6CC illustrates displaying a vehicle backup mode in user interface 604
 of display 546-1. For example, the vehicle backup mode displayed in user interface 604
                                                58

   WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
includes a video feed from a backup camera implemented in the vehicle. In some
embodiments, the vehicle backup mode occupies the entirety of display 546-1. When
 system 540 is implemented in a vehicle, display 646-1 displays a vehicle backup mode in
user interface 604 while the vehicle is in reverse. In some embodiments, the vehicle
backup mode supersedes all update information received by displays 546-1 and 546-2
from device 100. In some embodiments, the vehicle backup mode is displayed on one of
the displays (e.g., display 546-1) but not on the other display (e.g., display 546-2).
 [0194]      Similarly, Figure 6CC also illustrates displaying a vehicle backup mode in user
interface 676 of display 546-2. For example, the vehicle backup mode displayed in user
interface 676 includes a video feed from the backup camera implemented in the vehicle.
In some embodiments, the vehicle backup mode occupies the entirety of display 546-2.
When system 540 is implemented in a vehicle, display 646-2 displays a vehicle backup
mode in user interface 676 while the vehicle is in reverse. In some other embodiments,
display 646-2 does not display the vehicle backup mode in user interface 676 and
maintains display of interface 676 while the vehicle is in reverse.
 [0195]      Figure 6DD illustrates displaying a turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 from 6BB on display 546-1 once the vehicle is no longer in reverse.
 [0196]      Figure 6DD also illustrates detecting turn 688 (e.g., an approximately 90
degree clockwise turn) of jog dial 675. In response to detecting turn 688, jog dial 675 (or
 system 540) sends input information indicative of turn 688 to device 100. The input
information includes an identifier associated with jog dial 675 (e.g., a unique identifier
 associated with jog dial 675) and input description information describing turn 688. For
example, the input description information includes raw data describing turn 688 such as
the magnitude (90 degrees) and direction (clockwise) of the turn.
 [0197]      Device 100 detects a change in the input-source to display mapping that maps
jog dial 675 to display 546-2, instead of display 546-1. For example, device 100 changes
the input-source to display mapping based on communications from external information
presentation system 540 (e.g., taking control of a display to show an output of a backup
camera) or input-source-mapping update request such as a user switching a respective
control from a first-display mode in which the respective control controls a user interface
in the first display to a second-display mode in which the respective control controls a
user interface in the second display. In response to receiving the input information
 associated with turn 688, device 100 determines that the identifier included in the input
                                                59

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
information is associated with display 546-2 (e.g., associating the turn event with jog dial
675 which is currently mapped to display 546-2) based on the changed input-source to
display mapping. After determining that the turn event detected in Figure 6DD is
associated with display 546-2, device 100 also determines the display state of display 546
2 shown in Figure 6DD (e.g., user interface 676 is in an album song list mode).
[0198]      Figure 6DD further illustrates returning to display the list of songs 677 in user
interface 676 from Figure 6W on display 546-2 once the vehicle is no longer in reverse.
[0199]      Figure 6EE illustrates displaying the turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 from 6BB on display 546-1. Figure 6EE also illustrates displaying a scrolled
downward list of songs 677 in user interface 676 of display 546-2. In Figure 6EE, display
546-2 displays the scrolled downward list of songs 677 in user interface 676 in response to
receiving update information from device 100 including an updated user interface
corresponding to turn 688 detected by jog dial 675 in Figure 6DD and the display state of
user interface 676 in Figure 6DD (e.g., the album song list mode). In Figure 6EE, in
response to detecting turn 688 (e.g., an approximately 90 degree clockwise turn) of jog
dial 675 in Figure 6DD, list of songs 677 is scrolled downward in user interface 604.
[0200]      Figure 6EE further illustrates detecting an upward swipe gesture (sometimes
herein also called a "drag" gesture) with user touch input 689 moving from position 689a
to position 689b on display 546-2. In response to detecting user touch input 689 (or the
swipe gesture), display 546-2 (or system 540) sends input information indicative of touch
input 689 (or the swipe gesture) to device 100. The input information includes an
identifier associated with the touch-sensitive surface of display 546-2 (e.g., a unique
identifier associated with the touch-sensitive surface of display 546-2) and input
description information describing touch input 689 (or the swipe gesture). In response to
receiving the input information associated with touch input 689 (or the swipe gesture),
device 100 determines that the identifier included in the input information is associated
with display 546-2 (e.g., associating the touch event (or the gesture) with the touch
sensitive surface of display 546-2) based on the input-source to display mapping. After
determining that the touch event detected in Figure 6EE is associated with display 546-2,
device 100 also determines the display state of display 546-2 shown in Figure 6EE (e.g.,
user interface 676 is in the album song list mode).
[0201]      Figure 6FF illustrates displaying the turn-by-turn direction mode in user
interface 604 from 6BB on display 546-1. Figure 6FF also illustrates displaying a scrolled
                                               60

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
upward list of songs 677 in user interface 676 of display 546-2. In Figure 6FF, display
546- 2 displays the scrolled upward list of songs 677 in user interface 604 in response to
receiving update information from device 100 including an updated user interface
corresponding to the swipe gesture detected on display 546-2 in Figure 6EE and the
display state of user interface 676 in Figure 6EE (e.g., the album song list mode). In
Figure 6FF, in response to detecting the upward swipe gesture in Figure 6EE, list of songs
677 is scrolled upward in user interface 604.
[0202]       Figures 7A-7D are flow diagrams illustrating a method 700 of synchronizing
two or more displays in accordance with some embodiments. Method 700 is performed at
a first electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device 100,
Figure 1A) with a first display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the
first display is a touch screen display (e.g., touch screen 112) and the touch-sensitive
surface is on the first display. In some embodiments, the first display is separate from the
touch- sensitive surface. Some operations in method 700 are, optionally, combined and/or
the order of some operations is, optionally, changed.
[0203]       As described below, method 700 provides an intuitive way to synchronize two
or more displays. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when displaying
information on two or more displays, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine
interface. For battery-operated electronic devices, enabling a user to use information
displayed on two or more displays faster and more efficiently conserves power and
increases the time between battery charges.
[0204]       The first electronic device displays (702) a first user interface on the first
display. In some embodiments, the first electronic device is a portable multifunction
computing device such as a smart phone or tablet computer. Figures 6A-6V, for example,
show portable multifunction device 100 (sometimes herein called "device 100")
displaying user interface 602 (e.g., the first user interface) on touch screen 112.
[0205]       The first user interface enables (704) selection between a plurality of selectable
objects (e.g., search results that correspond to a previously performed search operation).
Figure 6D, for example, shows user interface objects (e.g., pins) corresponding to the dry
cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b displayed in user interface 602 of device 100.
The dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b are displayed in user interface 602 in
Figure 6D in response to a search query for "dry cleaning" nearby the current location 608
of device 100 in Figure 6C.
                                                 61

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
[0206]       The first user interface corresponds to a second user interface displayed on a
second display different from the first display. In some embodiments, the first user
interface and the second user interface are user interfaces for a same respective application
(e.g., an application running on the first electronic device). User interface 602 (e.g., the
first user interface) displayed on touch screen 112 of device 100 corresponds to user
interface 604 (e.g., the second user interface) displayed on display 546-1 (e.g., a touch
screen display) of external information presentation system 540 (sometimes herein called
"system 540"). In some embodiments, display 546-1 is a primary display of a plurality of
displays associated with system 540. In some embodiments, display 546-1 is implemented
in the dashboard of the vehicle and is visually accessible to the driver and/or passenger of
the vehicle.
[0207]       A first object from the plurality of selectable objects is displayed as a selected
object in the second user interface (e.g., the first user object is a currently selected object
in the second user interface). Figure 6D, for example, shows information box 613
corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a displayed in user interface 602.
Information box 613 is displayed in user interface 602 due to the fact that the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614a is automatically selected based on predetermined criteria. Figure
6D, for example, further shows route 616 from the current location 608 of device 100 to
automatically selected the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a displayed in user interface
604 of display 546-1.
[0208]       In some embodiments, the first object was automatically selected (706) as the
selected object based on predefined object selection criteria (e.g., after initiating a search
and receiving a set of one or more search results, a first object that corresponds to the
most relevant search result was automatically, without user intervention, selected as the
selected object). In Figure 6D, for example, the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a is
automatically selected based on proximity, the establishment's ratings, the amount of
reviews, the amount of times the user has frequented the establishment, and/or other
factors.
[0209]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to (708) a
plurality of search results produced in response to a search query (e.g., a typed or spoken
search query), and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected search result. In
Figure 6D, for example, user interface objects (e.g., pins) corresponding to the dry
cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b are displayed in user interface 602 of device
                                                 62

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
 100 in response to the search query "dry cleaning" input into search box 609 in Figure 6C.
In some embodiments, the search query is manually input into search box 609 by way of a
virtual keyboard displayed in user interface 602 of touch screen 112. In some other
embodiments, the search query is audibly input into search query box 609 by way of a
speech input from the user of device 100. In Figure 6D, for example, the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614a is automatically selected from the plurality of search results
including the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b. Also, in Figure 6D, user
interface 604 of system 540 displays route 616 from current location 608 of user device
 100 to selected the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a.
[0210]      In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to (710) a
plurality of map locations, and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected
destination. In Figure 6D, for example, user interface objects (e.g., pins) corresponding to
the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b are map locations relative to current
location 608 of device 100. Also, in Figure 6D, user interface 604 of system 540 displays
route 616 from current location 608 of user device 100 to the map location for selected the
dry cleaner represented by pin 614a.
[0211]      In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to (712) a
plurality of navigation routes, and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected
navigation route. Figure 60, for example, shows a plurality of selectable user interface
objects, including "route 1" affordance 631b and "route 2" affordance 632b,
corresponding to routes 631 a and 631b, respectively, from current location 608 of user
device 100 to the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b. Also, in Figure 6D, user
interface 604 of system 540 displays route 616 corresponding to highlighted route 631 a in
user interface 602 from current location 608 of user device 100 to selected the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614a.
[0212]      In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to (714) a
plurality of content items that can be played (or presented) with the device (e.g., the
plurality of selectable objects are songs, playlists, audio books, radio stations, or the like),
and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected content item. For example, a
respective song in a list of songs is displayed as an automatically selected song on a user
interface of touch screen 112 of device 100 based at least in part on the amount of plays of
the respective song, the ordinal position of the respective song in an album, the last played
                                                63

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
song, and other factors. In this example, the respective automatically selected song is
displayed as being currently played on a user interface of display 546-1.
[0213]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to (716) a
plurality of applications, and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected
application.
[0214]       In some embodiments, the second display is (718) a display coupled to a
second electronic device that is different from the first electronic device (e.g., in place of a
native GUI of the second electronic device). Figures 6A-6V, for example, show display
546-1 (e.g., the second display) coupled to system 540 (e.g., the second electronic device)
that is different (and separate) from device 100.
[0215]       In some embodiments, the second electronic device controls (720) an m
vehicle entertainment system with a native graphical user interface, and the second user
interface is displayed on the second display instead of at least a portion of the native
graphical user interface of the second electronic device (e.g., the second user interface is
generated by an application running on the first electronic device and is displayed instead
of some or all of the native graphical user interface of the in-vehicle entertainment
system). In Figures 6A-6V, for example, system 540 controls an in-vehicle
entertainment system including display 546-1. For example, user interface 604 in Figure
6A, including climate controls for a vehicle, is the native graphical user interface of the in
vehicle entertainment system. Figures 6B-6V, for example, show user interface 604
including a map displayed on display 546-1 in place of the native graphical user interface
(e.g., climate controls) as shown in Figure 6A.
[0216]       In some embodiments, the first electronic device receives (722) information
that corresponds to a respective input from a control of the in-vehicle entertainment
system (e.g., a tap or swipe gesture on a touch-sensitive surface associated with the second
display, a button press operation for a button associated with the second display and/or a
knob turn operation for a knob associated with the second display). Figure 6U, for
example, shows system 540 detecting user touch input 672 over "start directions"
affordance 672 in user interface 604 of display 546-1. In this example, system 540 sends
information to device 100 indicating that user touch input 672 was detected over "start
directions" affordance 672 in user interface 604 of display 546-1.
[0217]       In some embodiments, in response to receiving the information that
corresponds to the respective input, the first electronic device updates (724) the first user
                                                64

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
interface and the second user interface in accordance with the respective input. Figure 6V,
for example, shows device 100 updating user interface 602 to display turn-by-turn
directions box 673 on touch screen 112 and user interface 604 to display a turn-by-turn
mode on display 546-1. In some embodiments, while user interface 604 is in a turn-by
turn mode, the map displayed on display 546-1 is further zoomed into in comparison to
when user interface 604 is not in turn-by-turn mode.
[0218]      In some embodiments, the first user interface and the second user interface are
both generated (726) by a same application running on the first electronic device (e.g., an
application running on a smart phone generates a user interface for the phone and a user
interface for display on a display of an in-vehicle entertainment system of a vehicle).
Figure 6A, for example, shows user touch input 606 selecting maps application 436 in
user interface 602. Figures 6B-6V, for example, show maps application 436 running on
device 100 and generating both user interface 602 on touch screen 112 (e.g., the first user
interface) and user interface 604 on display 546-1 (e.g., the second user interface).
[0219]      While the first object is displayed (728) as the selected object in the second
user interface, the first electronic device detects (730) a first input (e.g., a tap or swipe
gesture on the first touch-sensitive surface of the first electronic device) from a user that
corresponds to a request to display information about a second object in the plurality of
selectable objects in the first user interface (e.g., without selecting the second object as the
selected object). Figure 6L, for example, shows device 100 detecting user touch input 643
over the user interface object (e.g., pin) corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by
pin 614b on the map displayed in user interface 602 including the dry cleaners represented
by pins 614a, 614b, 614c, 614e, and 614f. Figure 6L, for example, also shows user system
540 displaying turn-by-turn directions mode including route 616 from marker 636 to the
dry cleaner represented by pin 614a in user interface 604 of display 546-1 while device
 100 detects user touch input 643.
[0220]      While the first object is displayed (728) as the selected object in the second
user interface, in response to detecting the first input, the first electronic device updates
(732) the first user interface on the first display in accordance with the first input to
display respective information about the second object while display of the first object as
the selected object in the second user interface is maintained. Figure 6M, for example,
shows device 100 updating user interface 602 to display information box 644
corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b in response to detecting user
                                                  65

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
touch input 643 over the user interface object (e.g., pin) corresponding to the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614b in Figure 6L. While user interface 602 is updated in Figure 6M,
user interface 604 is maintained on display 546-1 in Figure 6M as shown prior to
detecting user touch input 643 in Figure 6L.
[0221]       In some embodiments, the first user interface is updated (734) in response to
detecting the first input without providing, to the second display, information that enables
the second user interface on the second display to be updated to display the respective
information about the second object in the second user interface (e.g., the first electronic
device does not send the respective information to the second electronic device or the
second display in response to the first input). Figure 6M, for example, shows device 100
updating user interface 602 on touch screen 112 in response to detecting user touch input
643 in Figure 6L without providing information to display 546-1 (or system 540) that
enables user interface 604 on display 546-1 to be updated. While user interface 602 is
updated in Figure 6M, user interface 604 is maintained on display 546-1 in Figure 6M as
shown prior to detecting user touch input 643 in Figure 6L.
[0222]       In some embodiments, updating the first user interface on the first display in
accordance with the first input to display respective information about the second object
while display of the first object as the selected object in the second user interface is
maintained includes (736) updating the first user interface on the first display in
accordance with the first input to display respective information about the second object
while the entire second user interface is maintained on the second display as it was
displayed immediately prior to detecting the first input (e.g., the second user interface is
not updated in response to the first update). Figure 6M, for example, shows device 100
updating user interface 602 on touch screen 112 to display information box 644
corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b in response to detecting user
touch input 643 in Figure 6L. While user interface 602 is updated in Figure 6M, user
interface 604 is maintained on display 546- 1 in Figure 6M as shown prior to detecting
user touch input 643 in Figure 6L.
[0223]       While the first object is displayed (728) as the selected object in the second
user interface, after updating the first user interface in accordance with the first input, the
first electronic device detects (738) a second input from a user that corresponds to a
request to select the second object as the selected object. Figure 6Q, for example, shows
device 100 detecting user touch input 661 corresponding to a request to display turn-by
                                                 66

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
turn directions for route 659a from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners).
[0224]       In response to detecting (740) the second input, the first electronic device
updates (742) the first user interface on the first display in accordance with the second
input to display the second object as the selected object. Figure 6R, for example, shows,
device 100 updating user interface 602 to display turn-by-turn directions box 662 from
current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary
Ann's Cleaners) in response to detecting user touch input 661 in Figure 6Q.
[0225]       In response to detecting (740) the second input, the first electronic device
provides (744), to the second display, information that enables the second user interface
on the second display to be updated to display the second object as the selected object
instead of the first object. In response to detecting user touch input 661 in Figure 6Q,
device 100 sends system 540 information to enable system 540 to update user interface
604 on display 546-1. Figure 6R, for example, shows updated user interface 604 where
turn-by-turn directions mode (e.g., from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry
cleaner represented by pin 614b) is displayed in user interface 604 of display 546-1
including marker 664 indicating the current location of device 100, route 659a to the dry
cleaner represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners), and turn-by-turn directions
box 663 indicating the user's first direction (or turn) on route 659a.
[0226]       In some embodiments, after providing the information that enables (746) the
second user interface on the second display to be updated to display the second object as
the selected object instead of the first object, the first electronic device enters (748) a
display synchronization mode (e.g., entering a playlist play mode or driving directions
mode). Figure 6R, for example, shows device 100 displaying turn-by-turn directions box
662 from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b in
user interface 602 of touch screen 112 (e.g., a display synchronization mode). In some
embodiments, while in the display synchronization mode (750): the first electronic device
periodically updates (752) the first user interface over time (e.g., updating displayed cover
art as the first electronic device plays through a sequence of songs in a playlist or updating
a displayed map to indicate progress of a vehicle moving along a navigation route). For
example, while device 100 displays turn-by-turn directions box 662 as shown in Figure
6R, device 100 periodically updates user interface 602 to show the updated next direction
(or turn) on route 659a and the updated mileage and time remaining in turn-by-turn
                                                 67

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
directions box 662 as device 100 approaches the destination (e.g., the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614b corresponding to Mary Ann's Cleaners). In some embodiments,
while in the display synchronization mode (750): the first electronic device provides (754)
information that enables the second user interface on the second display to be
synchronized with the first user interface as the first user interface is updated over time
(e.g., providing updated cover art or map images to the display as the first electronic
device plays through the playlist or the vehicle moves along the navigation route). For
example, while device 100 displays turn- by-turn directions box 662 as shown in Figure
6R, device 100 provides information to system 540 that enables system 540 to display
updated user interface 604 including the updated next direction (or turn) on route 659a,
the updated mileage and time remaining in turn-by-turn directions box 663 and marker
664 (e.g., the current location of device 100) as device 100 approaches the destination
(e.g., the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b corresponding to Mary Ann's Cleaners).
[0227]       In some embodiments, prior to detecting the first input, the first user interface
is synchronized (756) with the second user interface (e.g., the first object is displayed in
both the first user interface and the second user interface as the selected object); after
responding to the first input and prior to detecting the second input, the first user interface
is not synchronized with the second user interface (e.g., a second object is displayed as the
selected object in the first user interface while the second object remains displayed as the
selected object in the second user interface); and after responding to the second input, the
first user interface is synchronized with the second user interface (e.g., the second object
is displayed as the selected object in both the first user interface and the second user
interface).
[0228]       In Figure 6H, first user interface 602 and second user interface 604 are
synchronized. Figure 6H, for example, shows user interface 602 on touch screen 112
displaying turn-by-turn directions box 634 indicating the user's first direction (or turn) on
route 631a from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin
614a (e.g., the selected first object) and the name of the selected first object, or
destination, (e.g., ABC Cleaners). Figure 6H, for example, also shows user interface 604
on display 546-1 displaying a turn-by-turn directions mode with route 616 from the
current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a (e.g., the
first selected object).
                                                 68

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0229]       In Figure 6M, first user interface 602 and second user interface 604 are not
synchronized. Figure 6M, for example, shows user interface 602 on touch screen 112
displaying information box 644 corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b
(e.g., the selected second object). Figure 6M, for example, also shows user interface 604
on display 546-1 displaying route 616 from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry
cleaner represented by pin 614a (e.g., the selected first object).
[0230]       In Figure 6R, first user interface 602 and second user interface 604 are
synchronized. Figure 6R, for example, shows user interface 602 on touch screen 112
displaying turn-by-turn directions box 662 indicating the user's first direction (or turn) on
route 659a from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin
614b (e.g., the selected second object) and the name of the selected second object, or
destination, (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners). Figure 6R, for example, also shows user
interface 604 on display 546-1 displaying a turn-by-turn directions mode with route
659a from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b
(e.g., the selected second object).
[0231]       Thus, as described above, the user interface displayed on touch screen display
 112 and display 546-1 are intermittently synchronized. Intermittently synchronizing the
user interfaces displayed on touch screen display 112 and display 546-1 enables a
passenger in a vehicle to browse through information displayed on touch screen display
 112 (e.g., investigating different candidate destinations including contact information,
reviews, descriptions, etc.) without the user interface that is displayed on the driver-visible
display (e.g., display 546-1) updating constantly in response to the activity of the
passenger. However, once the passenger has committed to an operation (e.g., selected a
destination) in the user interface displayed on touch screen display 112, the user interfaces
on the displays are synchronized, so that the driver can drive to the selected destination
and the user can help to navigate to the selected destination. Similarly, if the driver selects
a destination in the user interface that is displayed on the driver-visible display (e.g.,
display 546-1), the user interface displayed on touch screen display 112 is updated to
reflect the driver's selection, so that the passenger can help the driver navigate to the
selected destination. The intermittent synchronization of user interfaces described above is
an improvement over a situation where the user interfaces displayed on two displays are
continuously synchronized (e.g., because the passenger is able to view additional
information without repeatedly changing the information displayed to the driver).
                                                 69

  WO 2014/197339                                                          PCT/US2014/040415
Additionally, the intermittent synchronization of user interfaces describe above is an
improvement over a situation where the user interfaces displayed on two displays are
never synchronized (e.g., because the passenger does not need to take the additional step
of updating a destination address in a car navigation system after looking up the address
on device 100).
[0232]      It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 7A-7D have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One
of ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations
described herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described
herein with respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 800 and 900) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 700 described above with respect to Figures
7A-7D. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects described above with
reference to method 700 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts,
gestures, user interface objects described herein with reference to other methods described
herein (e.g., methods 800 and 900). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[0233]      Figures 8A-8B are flow diagrams illustrating a method 800 of synchronizing
two or more displays in accordance with some embodiments. Method 800 is performed at
a portable electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction device
 100, Figure 1A) that is in communication with a vehicle display of a vehicle. The portable
electronic device includes a portable-device display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some
embodiments, the portable-device display is a touch screen display and the touch-sensitive
surface is on the portable-device. In some embodiments, the portable-device is separate
from the touch-sensitive surface. Some operations in method 800 are, optionally,
combined and/or the order of some operations is, optionally, changed.
[0234]      As described below, method 800 provides an intuitive way to synchronize two
or more displays. The method reduces the cognitive burden on a user when using two or
more displays, thereby creating a more efficient human-machine interface. For battery
operated electronic devices, enabling a user to synchronize two or more displays faster
and more efficiently conserves power and increases the time between battery charges.
[0235]      The portable electronic device obtains (802) a set of map search results that
includes a plurality of candidate destinations. Figure 6C, for example, shows a user search
query (e.g., dry cleaning) displayed in search box 609 in user interface 602 of touch
                                               70

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
screen 112. In response to the search query, device 100 obtains a set of map search results
that includes a plurality of candidate destinations by searching a memory local to device
 100, a memory external to device 100, the Internet, or a combination thereof.
[0236]      The portable electronic device displays (804) a portable-device navigation
interface on the portable-device display, where the portable-device navigation interface
enables selection of a destination from the plurality of candidate destinations (e.g., search
results that correspond to a previously performed search operation). Figure 6D, for
example, shows a portable-device navigation interface (e.g., user interface 602)
corresponding to the search query "dry cleaning" input into search query box 609 in
Figure 6C displayed on touch screen 112. In Figure 6D, user interface 602 includes
selectable user interface objects (e.g., pins), or affordances, corresponding to the dry
cleaners represented by pins 614a and 614b nearby current location 608 of device 100.
[0237]      The portable electronic device sends (806) information to the vehicle display
that enables the vehicle display to display a vehicle navigation interface, where a first
destination of the plurality of candidate destinations is a selected destination in the vehicle
navigation interface. Figure 6D, for example, shows a vehicle navigation interface (e.g.,
user interface 604) displayed on display 546-1 of system 540. In Figure 6D, the dry
cleaner represented by pin 614a (e.g., ABC Cleaners) is displayed as the selected
destination in user interface 604 of display 546-1 and route 616 from current location 608
of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a is also displayed in user interface
604 of display 546-1. In some embodiments, display 546-1 is a touch screen display. In
some embodiments, display 546-1 is a primary display of a plurality of displays associated
with system 540. In some embodiments, display 546-1 is implemented in the dashboard of
the vehicle and is visually accessible to the driver and/or passenger of the vehicle.
[0238]      While the first destination is (808) the selected destination in the vehicle
navigation interface, the portable electronic device detects (810) a first input (e.g., a tap or
swipe gesture on a touch-sensitive surface of the first electronic device) from a user that
corresponds to a request to display information about one or more candidate destinations
in the plurality of candidate destinations other than the first destination (e.g., without
selecting the second object as the selected object). Figure 6L, for example, shows device
 100 detecting user touch input 643 over the user interface object (e.g., pin) corresponding
to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners) on the map
displayed in user interface 602. In Figure 6L, the map displayed in user interface includes
                                                 71

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
the dry cleaners represented by pins 614a, 614b, 614c, 614e, and 614f. In Figure 6L, for
example, the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a (e.g., ABC Cleaners) is displayed as the
selected destination in user interface 604 of display 546-1.
[0239]      While the first destination is (808) the selected destination in the vehicle
navigation interface, in response to detecting the first input, the portable electronic device
updates (812) the portable-device navigation interface on the portable-device display in
accordance with the first input without the vehicle navigation interface on the vehicle
display being updated. Figure 6M, for example, shows device 100 updating user interface
602 to display information box 644 corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin
614b in response to detecting user touch input 643 over the user interface object (e.g., pin)
corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b in Figure 6L. In Figure 6M, user
interface 602 is updated without providing information to display 546-1 (or system 540)
that enables user interface 604 on display 546-1 to be updated. In Figure 6M, for example,
the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a is displayed as the selected destination in user
interface 604 of display 546-1.
[0240]      While the first destination is (808) the selected destination in the vehicle
navigation interface, after updating the portable-device navigation interface in accordance
with the first input, the portable electronic device detects (814) a second input from a user
that corresponds to a request to select a second destination in the plurality of candidate
destinations as the selected destination. Figure 6Q, for example, shows device 100
detecting user touch input 661 corresponding to a request to display turn-by-turn
directions for route 659a from current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner
represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners).
[0241]      In response to detecting (816) the second input, the portable electronic device
updates (818) the portable-device navigation interface on the portable-device display in
accordance with the second input to display the second destination as the selected
destination. Figure 6R, for example, shows, device 100 updating user interface 602 to
display turn-by-turn directions box 662 with directions to the dry cleaner represented by
pin 614b (e.g., Mary Ann's Cleaners) in response to detecting user touch input 661 in
Figure 6Q.
[0242]      In response to detecting (816) the second input, the portable electronic device
sends (820) information to the vehicle display that enables the vehicle display to update
the vehicle navigation interface in accordance with the second input to display the second
                                                72

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
destination as the selected destination. In response to detecting user touch input 661 in
Figure 6Q, device 100 sends system 540 information to enable system 540 to update user
interface 604 on display 546-1. Figure 6R, for example, shows updated user interface 604
where turn-by-turn directions mode is displayed in user interface 604 of display 546-1
including marker 664 indicating the current location of device 100, route 659a from
current location 608 of device 100 to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614b (e.g., Mary
Ann's Cleaners), and turn-by-turn directions box 663 indicating the user's first direction
(or turn) on route 659a.
[0243]       It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 8A-8B have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One
of ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations
described herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described
herein with respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 700 and 900) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 800 described above with respect to Figures
8A-8B. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects described above with
reference to method 800 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts,
gestures, user interface objects described herein with reference to other methods described
herein (e.g., methods 700 and 900). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
[0244]       Figures 9A-9C are flow diagrams illustrating a method 900 of sending update
information to an affected display in accordance with some embodiments. Method 900 is
performed at an electronic device (e.g., device 300, Figure 3, or portable multifunction
device 100, Figure IA) that is in communication with a plurality of displays that include a
first display and a second display. In some embodiments, the electronic device, optionally,
includes a display and a touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments, the display is a
touch screen display and the touch-sensitive surface is on the electronic device. In some
embodiments, the electronic device is separate from the touch-sensitive surface. Some
operations in method 900 are, optionally, combined and/or the order of some operations
is, optionally, changed.
[0245]       As described below, the method 900 provides an efficient way to send update
information to an affected display.
[0246]       An electronic device that is in communication with a plurality of displays that
include a first display and a second display receives (902) first input information that is
                                                73

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
indicative of a first input detected by a first input source of a plurality of input sources,
where the first input information includes: a first (unique) identifier for the first input
source; and a first input description that describes the first input. For example, the first
input source description is raw input data such as contact locations and movement
amounts/directions detected on a touch-sensitive surface and/or gesture data describing a
type of gesture that was performed on the touch-sensitive surface. In some embodiments,
the device is in communication with a plurality of different input sources (e.g., one or
more buttons, knobs, jog dials, and/or touch-sensitive surfaces) where a respective input
source is mapped to work in conjunction with a particular display. In some embodiments,
as described in greater detail below with reference to Figure 6DD-6EE, the mapping is,
optionally, updated so that the mapping of a respective input source is changed from being
mapped to the first display to being mapped to the second display.
[0247]      Figures 6W-6FF, for example, show device 100 in communication with
display 546-1 and 546-2. For example, display 546-1 (e.g., a primary display) and 546-2
(e.g., an auxiliary display) are associated with system 540 which is implemented in a
vehicle. For example, jog dial 675 is associated with system 540 and, when activated,
causes the device to control one or both of display 546-1 and display 546-2. Figure 6X,
for example, shows jog dial 675 detecting turn 681 (e.g., an approximately 90 degree
clockwise turn). In response to detecting turn 681, jog dial 675 (or system 540) sends
input information indicative of turn 681 to device 100. The input information includes an
identifier associated with jog dial 675 (e.g., a unique identifier associated with jog dial
675) and input description information describing turn 681. For example, the input
description information includes raw data describing turn 681 such as the magnitude (90
degrees) and direction (clockwise) of the turn.
[0248]      The device selects (904) a first affected display from the plurality of displays
based on the first identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to
corresponding displays. For example, in response to receiving input information
corresponding to turn 681 in Figure 6X from jog dial 675, device 100 selects (or
determines) an affected display by correlating the identifier (e.g., identifying the input
source as jog dial 675) included in the input information with a display (e.g., display 546
 1) based on an input-source mapping that maps input sources to displays.
[0249]      In some embodiments, selecting the first affected display includes (906): in
accordance with a determination that the first input source is assigned to the first display
                                                  74

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
in the input-source mapping, selecting the first display as the first affected display that is
affected by the first input; and in accordance with a determination that the first input
source is assigned to the second display, different from the first display, in the input
source mapping, selecting the second display as the first affected display that is affected
by the first input. For example, in response to receiving input information corresponding
to the pinch gesture in Figure 6W from the touch-sensitive surface associated with display
546-1, device 100 selects (or determines) an affected display by correlating the identifier
(e.g., identifying the input source as the touch-sensitive surface associated with display
546-1) included in the input information with a display (e.g., display 546-1) based on the
input-source mapping that maps input sources to displays. In another example, in response
to receiving input information corresponding to the upward swipe gesture in Figure 6EE
from the touch- sensitive surface associated with display 546-2, device 100 selects (or
determines) an affected display by correlating the identifier (e.g., identifying the input
source as the touch- sensitive surface associated with display 546-2) included in the input
information with a display (e.g., display 546-2) based on the input-source mapping that
maps input sources to displays.
[0250]        In some embodiments, after selecting the first affected display, the device
(908): determines a respective state of a user interface displayed on the first affected
display (e.g., a user interface displayed on the first affected display immediately prior to
when the first input information was received); and generates the update information
based on the first input description and the respective state of the user interface displayed
on the first affected display. For example, in response to receiving input information
corresponding to turn 681 in Figure 6X from jog dial 675, device 100 selects (or
determines) an affected display by correlating the identifier (e.g., identifying the input
source as jog dial 675) included in the input information with a display (e.g., display 546
 1) based on an input- source mapping that maps input sources to displays. In this example,
after determining that the turn event detected in Figure 6X is associated with display 546
 1, device 100 also determines the display state of display 546-1 shown in Figure 6X (e.g.,
user interface 604 is in a search results or destination selection mode). In this example,
device 100 generates the update information (e.g., the updated user interface displayed on
display 546-1 in Figure 6Y) based on the input description information shown in Figure
6X (e.g., an approximately 90 degree clockwise turn) and the display state of display 546
 1 (e.g., user interface 604 is in a search results or destination selection mode).
                                                  75

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
[0251]       In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the respective
state of the user interface displayed on the first affected display is a first state, the update
information corresponds to (910) performing a first operation for the respective state of
the user interface displayed on the first affected display (e.g., the respective state is
displaying a "now playing" interface for playing audio and the respective operation
includes adjusting a volume level of audio playback associated with the user interface
displayed on the first affected display in accordance with an amount of rotation of a
knob); and in accordance with a determination that the respective state of the user
interface displayed on the first affected display is a second state different from the first
state, the update information corresponds to performing a second operation, different from
the first operation, for the respective state of the user interface displayed on the first
affected display (e.g., the respective state is displaying a list of selectable items such as
audio content items and the respective operation includes navigating through the list of
selectable items on the first affected display in accordance with an amount of rotation of a
knob). Figures 6Y-6Z, for example, shows display 546-1 scrolling south-to-north through
selected search results (e.g., dry cleaners) in user interface 604 in response to detecting
turn 683 of jog dial 675 in Figure 6Y (e.g., an approximately 180 degree counter
clockwise turn) and in accordance with the display state of user interface 604 in Figure 6Y
(e.g., a search results or destination selection mode). Figures 6AA-6BB, for example,
show display 546-1 zooming out a turn-by-turn directions mode in user interface 604 in
response to detecting turn 686 of jog dial 675 in Figure 6AA (e.g., an approximately 90
degree counter-clockwise turn) and in accordance with the display state of user interface
604 in Figure 6AA (e.g., a turn-by-turn directions mode).
[0252]       In some embodiments, prior to receiving the first input information, the
respective user interface has a prior state; and the device updates (912) the user interface
to an updated state that is different from the prior state based on the first input and the
prior state of the respective user interface (e.g., in response to a swipe gesture on a touch
sensitive surface or a rotation of a knob, a map user interface is scrolled in accordance
with a magnitude and direction of the swipe gesture or the magnitude of the rotation of the
knob). Figures 6EE-6FF, for example, show display 546-2 scrolling up a list of songs 677
in user interface 676 in response to detecting an upward swipe gesture with user touch
input 689 on display 546-2 in Figure 6EE and in accordance with the display state of user
interface 676 in Figure 6EE (e.g., an album song list mode).
                                                  76

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
[0253]        In some embodiments, prior to sending the update information to the first
affected display, the device generates (914) the update information based on the first input
information, where: in accordance with a determination that the first input description
describes first input properties, the device generates first update information; and in
accordance with a determination that the first input description describes second input
properties different from the first input properties, the device generates second update
information different from the first update information. For example, when the first input
information corresponds to rotation of a knob while a list is displayed on the first affected
display, if the first input description indicates that the first input includes clockwise
rotation of a knob, the device scrolls a list downward on the affected display; in contrast,
if the first input description indicates that the first input includes counter-clockwise
rotation of the knob, the device scrolls the list upward on the affected display.
[0254]        In another example, when the search results or a destination selection mode is
displayed, a 90 degree turn of jog dial 675 selects a next search result, a clockwise turn
scrolls the search results north-to-south, and a counter-clockwise turn scrolls the search
results south-to-north. Figures 6X-6Y, for example, show display 546-1 scrolling north
to- south through selected search results (e.g., dry cleaners) in user interface 604 in
response to detecting turn 681 of jog dial 675 in Figure 6X (e.g., an approximately 90
degree clockwise turn). In contrast, Figures 6Y-6Z, for example, shows display 546-1
scrolling south-to-north through selected search results (e.g., dry cleaners) in user
interface 604 in response to detecting turn 683 of jog dial 675 in Figure 6Y (e.g., an
approximately 180 degree counter- clockwise turn).
[0255]        The device sends (916), to the first affected display, update information that
enables the first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input. For
example, in response to receiving input information corresponding to turn 681 in Figure
6X from jog dial 675, device 100 selects display 546-1 as the affected display by
correlating the identifier (e.g., identifying the input source as jog dial 675) included in the
input information with display 546-1 based on the input-source mapping. After selecting
display as the affected display, device 100 sends affected display 546-1 update
information that enables affected display 546-1 to be updated.
[0256]        In some embodiments, the update information includes (918) information
corresponding to the first input (e.g., raw input data such as contact locations and
movement amounts/directions detected on a touch-sensitive surface and/or gesture data
                                                  77

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
describing a type of gesture that was performed on the touch-sensitive surface). In some
embodiments, the update information includes the first input description. In some
embodiments, the update information is generated based on the first input description
(e.g., the first input description is raw touch input data and the update information
includes a gesture that corresponds to the raw touch input data).
[0257]       In some embodiments, the update information includes (920) an updated user
interface for display at the first affected display (e.g., an image for display on the first
display that includes a plurality of user interface objects). After selecting display 546-1 as
the affected display corresponding to turn 681 in Figure 6X, device I 00 sends affected
display 546-1 update information that enables affected display 546-1 to be updated in
accordance with the magnitude (90 degrees) and direction (clockwise) of turn 681 of jog
dial 675 in Figure 6X. For example, the update information includes an updated user
interface that scrolls the search results (e.g., dry cleaners) so that the next dry cleaner
south (e.g., Suzie's Cleaners corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614d)
from ABC Cleaners corresponding to the dry cleaner represented by pin 614a is displayed
as the selected search result in user interface 604 in Figure 6Y.
[0258]       In some embodiments, the device generates (922) user interfaces for two or
more displays of the plurality of displays and provides respective user interfaces to
corresponding displays. For example, device 100 sends images that are representative of a
first map/navigation user interface for display on a first display (e.g., primary display 546
 1 or a dashboard navigation display) of a vehicle information display system (e.g., system
540), such as a vehicle entertainment or navigation system, and generates a second,
different, map/navigation user interface for a second, different, display that is structurally
integrated with the device (e.g., touch-screen 112 of device 100 or another portable
electronic device). In some embodiments, the device sends images that are representative
of a different user interface for display on a third display in the vehicle (e.g., auxiliary
display 546-2 or a rear-seat entertainment display) of a vehicle information display system
(e.g., system 540).
[0259]       In some embodiments, after sending the update information that enables the
first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input (924), the device
receives (926) second input information that is indicative of a second input detected by a
second input source of the plurality of input sources distinct from the first input source,
where the second input information includes: a second (unique) identifier for the second
                                                  78

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
input source; and a second input description that describes the second input. For example,
the second input description is raw input data such as contact locations and movement
amounts/directions detected on a touch-sensitive surface and/or gesture data describing a
type of gesture that was performed on the touch-sensitive surface. After selecting display
546-1 as the first affected display corresponding to turn 681 in Figure 6X, device 100
sends first affected display 546-1 update information that enables first affected display
546-1 to be updated as shown in Figure 6Y. Subsequently, Figure 6EE, for example,
shows the touch- sensitive surface associated with display 546-2 detecting an upward
swipe gesture with user touch input 689. In response to detecting the upward swipe
gesture, the touch-sensitive surface associated with display 546-2 (or system 540) sends
input information indicative of user touch input 689 (or the upward swipe gesture) to
device 100. The input information includes an identifier associated with the touch
sensitive surface associated with display 546-2 (e.g., a unique identifier associated with
the touch-sensitive surface associated with display 546-2) and input description
information describing user touch input 689 (or the upward swipe gesture).
[0260]       In some embodiments, after sending the update information that enables the
first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input (924), the device
selects (928) a second affected display from the plurality of displays based on the second
identifier and the input-source mapping. In response to receiving input information
corresponding to the upward swipe gesture in Figure 6EE from the touch-sensitive surface
associated with display 546-2, device 100 selects display 546-2 as the second affected
display by correlating the identifier (e.g., identifying the input source as the touch
sensitive surface associated with display 546-2) included in the input information with a
display (e.g., display 546-2) based on the input-source mapping that maps input sources to
displays.
[0261]       In some embodiments, after sending the update information that enables the
first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input (924), the device
sends (930), to the second affected display, update information that enables the second
affected display to be updated in accordance with the second input. In some embodiments
(e.g., where the first input source and the second input source are both mapped to a same
display), the first affected display is the same as the second affected display. In some
embodiments (e.g., where the first input source and the second input source are mapped to
different displays), the first affected display is different from the second affected display.
                                                 79

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
After selecting display 546-2 as the second affected display, device 100 sends second
affected display 546-2 update information that enables affected display 546-2 to be
updated. For example, in Figure 6FF, the update information includes an updated user
interface that enabled display 546-2 to display list 677 scrolled upward in user interface
676.
[0262]      In some embodiments, the device detects (932) a change in availability of a
respective display of the plurality of displays, and in response to detecting the change in
availability of the respective display, the device updates the input-source mapping to show
the change in availability of the respective display. In some embodiments, the change in
availability of the respective display includes a computer system (e.g., a vehicle
information display system such as a navigation or entertainment system) that is different
from the electronic device taking control of the respective display. In some embodiments,
the change in availability of the respective display includes a computer system that is
different from the electronic device giving control of the respective display to (or back to)
the electronic device (e.g., while the vehicle is backing up, a vehicle information display
system displays a video feed from a back-up camera on a display of the vehicle
information display system and after the vehicle has ceased to back up, the vehicle
information display system enables the electronic device to again display a user interface
provided by the electronic device on the display of the vehicle information display
system).
[0263]      Figures 6W-6FF, for example, show display 546-1 and display 546-2
associated with system 540 that is implemented in a vehicle. While the vehicle is in
reverse, Figure 6CC, for example, shows display 546-1 displaying a vehicle backup mode
including a video feed from backup camera in user interface 604 and display 546-2
displaying a vehicle backup mode including a video feed from the backup camera in user
interface 676. While the vehicle is in reverse, vehicle backup mode supersedes all update
information received by displays 546-1 and 546-2 from device 100.
[0264]      In some embodiments, while a respective input source is assigned to the first
display, the device detects (934) a change in display assignment for a respective input
source of the plurality of input sources from the first display to the second display, and in
response to detecting the change in display assignment for the respective input source, the
device updates the input-source mapping to show the change in display assignment for the
respective input source, so that input information that is indicative of inputs associated
                                                80

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
with the respective input source is used to update a user interface displayed on the second
display instead of being used to update a user interface displayed on the first display. For
example, a passenger in a vehicle switches from using a first knob to control a user
interface in a primary display of a vehicle information display system to using the first
knob to control a user interface in an auxiliary display of the vehicle information display
system (e.g., a rear- seat entertainment display) and input information that includes an
identifier for the first knob is used to update a user interface displayed on the auxiliary
display instead of being used to update a user interface displayed on the primary display.
[0265]       In Figures 6W-6CC, jog dial 675, when activated, causes the device to control
display 546-1. Thus, in Figures 6W-6CC, jog dial 675 is associated with display 546-1 in
the input-source to display mapping. For example, Figures 6AA-6BB show display 546-1
zooming out a turn-by-turn directions mode in user interface 604 in response to detecting
turn 686 of jog dial 675 (e.g., an approximately 90 degree counter-clockwise turn) in
Figure 6AA in accordance with a determination that jog dial 675 is mapped to display
546-1.
[0266]       In contrast, in Figures 6DD-6EE, jog dial 675, when activated, causes the
device to control display 546-2. Thus, in Figures 6DD-6EE, jog dial 675 is associated with
display 546-2 in the changed input-source to display mapping. In another example,
Figures 6DD-6EE show display 546-2 scrolling down list 677 in user interface 676 in
response to detecting turn 688 of jog dial 675 (e.g., an approximately 90 degree clockwise
turn) in Figure 6DD in accordance with a determination that jog dial 675 is mapped to
display 546- 2.
[0267]       It should be understood that the particular order in which the operations in
Figures 9A-9C have been described is merely exemplary and is not intended to indicate
that the described order is the only order in which the operations could be performed. One
of ordinary skill in the art would recognize various ways to reorder the operations
described herein. Additionally, it should be noted that details of other processes described
herein with respect to other methods described herein (e.g., methods 700 and 800) are also
applicable in an analogous manner to method 900 described above with respect to Figures
9A-9C. For example, the contacts, gestures, user interface objects described above with
reference to method 900 optionally have one or more of the characteristics of the contacts,
gestures, user interface objects described herein with reference to other methods described
herein (e.g., methods 700 and 800). For brevity, these details are not repeated here.
                                                 81

1002001724
[02681        In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 10 shows a functional block
diagram of a first electronic device 1000 configured in accordance with the principles of
the various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry
out the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of
skill in the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 10 are, optionally, combined
or separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described
embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible
combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[02691        As shown in Figure 10, a first electronic device 1000 includes a first display
unit 1002 configured to display a first user interface, where: the first user interface enables
selection between a plurality of selectable objects; the first user interface corresponds to a
second user interface displayed on a second display unit different from the first display
unit; and a first object from the plurality of selectable objects is displayed as a selected
object in the second user interface. Optionally, first electronic device 1000 also includes a
communications interface unit 1004 configured to communicate with a second electronic
device and a first touch-sensitive surface unit 1006 configured to receive one or more
touch inputs. First electronic device 1000 further includes a processing unit 1008 coupled
to first display unit 1002, and, optionally, coupled to communications interface unit 1004
and first touch-sensitive surface unit 1006. In some embodiments, processing unit 1008
includes a detecting unit 1010, an updating unit 1012, a providing unit 1014, a
synchronization unit 1016, and a receiving unit 1018.
[02701        While the first object is displayed as the selected object in the second user
interface, processing unit 1008 is configured to: detect (e.g., with detecting unit 1010) a
first input from a user that corresponds to a request to enable display of information about
a second object in the plurality of selectable objects in the first user interface; in response
to detecting the first input, update (e.g., with updating unit 1012) the first user interface on
first display unit 1002 in accordance with the first input to enable display of respective
information about the second object while display of the first object as the selected object
in the second user interface is maintained; and after updating the first user interface in
accordance with the first input, detect (e.g., with detecting unit 1010) a second input from a
user that corresponds to a request to select the second object as the selected object. In
response to detecting the second input, processing unit 1008 is further configured to:
                                                 82

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
update (e.g., with updating unit 1012) the first user interface on first display unit 1002 in
accordance with the second input to enable display of the second object as the selected
object; and provide (e.g., with providing unit 1014), to the second display unit,
information that enables the second user interface on the second display unit to be updated
to enable display of the second object as the selected object instead of the first object.
[0271]       In some embodiments, the first user interface is updated in response to
detecting the first input without providing, to the second display unit, information that
enables the second user interface on the second display unit to be updated to enable
display of the respective information about the second object in the second user interface.
[0272]       In some embodiments, updating the first user interface on first display unit
 1002 in accordance with the first input to enable display of respective information about
the second object while display of the first object as the selected object in the second user
interface is maintained includes updating the first user interface on first display unit 1002
in accordance with the first input to enable display of respective information about the
second object while the entire second user interface is maintained on the second display
unit as it was displayed immediately prior to detecting the first input.
[0273]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to a
plurality of map locations, and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected
destination.
[0274]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to a
plurality of navigation routes, and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected
navigation route.
[0275]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to a
plurality of content items that can be played with first electronic device 1000, and the
selected object corresponds to a currently selected content item.
[0276]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to a
plurality of applications, and the selected object corresponds to a currently selected
application.
[0277]       In some embodiments, the plurality of selectable objects correspond to a
plurality of search results produced in response to a search query, and the selected object
corresponds to a currently selected search result.
[0278]       In some embodiments, the first object was automatically selected as the
selected object based on predefined object selection criteria.
                                                83

  WO 2014/197339                                                            PCT/US2014/040415
[0279]       In some embodiments, prior to detecting the first input, the first user interface
is synchronized with the second user interface; after responding to the first input and prior
to detecting the second input, the first user interface is not synchronized with the second
user interface; and after responding to the second input, the first user interface is
synchronized with the second user interface.
[0280]       In some embodiments, processing unit 1008 is configured to: after providing
the information that enables the second user interface on the second display unit to be
updated to enable display of the second object as the selected object instead of the first
object, enter (e.g., with synchronization unit 1016) a display synchronization mode; and
while in the display synchronization mode: periodically update (e.g., with updating unit
 1012) the first user interface over time; and provide (e.g., with providing unit 1014)
information that enables the second user interface on the second display unit to be
synchronized with the first user interface as the first user interface is updated over time.
[0281]       In some embodiments, the second electronic device controls an in-vehicle
entertainment system with a native graphical user interface, and the second user interface
is displayed on the second display unit instead of at least a portion of the native graphical
user interface of the second electronic device.
[0282]       In some embodiments, processing unit 1008 is configured to: receive (e.g.,
with receiving unit 1018) information that corresponds to a respective input from a control
of the in-vehicle entertainment system; and in response to receiving the information that
corresponds to the respective input, update (e.g., with updating unit 1012) the first user
interface and the second user interface in accordance with the respective input.
[0283]       In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 11 shows a functional block
diagram of a portable electronic device 1100 configured in accordance with the principles
of the various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry
out the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of
skill in the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 11 are, optionally, combined
or separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described
embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible
combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[0284]       As shown in Figure 11, a portable electronic device 1100 includes a portable
device display unit 1102 configured to display a portable-device navigation interface, a
                                                 84

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
communications interface unit 1104 configured to communicate with a vehicle display
unit of a vehicle, and, optionally, a touch-sensitive surface unit 1106 configured to receive
one or more touch inputs; and a processing unit 1108 coupled to portable-device display
unit 1102, communications interface unit 1104, and, optionally, touch-sensitive surface
unit 1106. In some embodiments, processing unit 1108 includes an obtaining unit 1110, a
display enabling unit 1112, a sending unit 1114, a detecting unit 1116, and an updating
unit 1118.
[0285]       Processing unit 1108 is configured to: obtain (e.g., with obtaining unit 1110) a
set of map search results that includes a plurality of candidate destinations; enable display
(e.g., with display enabling unit 1112) of the portable-device navigation interface on
portable-device display unit 1102, where the portable-device navigation interface enables
selection of a destination from the plurality of candidate destinations; and send (e.g., with
sending unit 1114) information to the vehicle display unit that enables the vehicle display
unit to enable display of the vehicle navigation interface, where a first destination of the
plurality of candidate destinations is a selected destination in the vehicle navigation
interface. While the first destination is the selected destination in the vehicle navigation
interface, processing unit 1108 is also configured to: detect (e.g., with detecting unit 1116)
a first input from a user that corresponds to a request to enable display of information
about one or more candidate destinations in the plurality of candidate destinations other
than the first destination; in response to detecting the first input, update (e.g., with
updating unit 1118) the portable-device navigation interface on portable-device display
unit 1102 in accordance with the first input without the vehicle navigation interface on the
vehicle display unit being updated; and after updating the portable-device navigation
interface in accordance with the first input, detect (e.g., with detecting unit 1116) a second
input from a user that corresponds to a request to select a second destination in the
plurality of candidate destinations as the selected destination.
[0286]       In accordance with some embodiments, Figure 12 shows a functional block
diagram of a portable electronic device 1200 configured in accordance with the principles
of the various described embodiments. The functional blocks of the device are, optionally,
implemented by hardware, software, or a combination of hardware and software to carry
out the principles of the various described embodiments. It is understood by persons of
skill in the art that the functional blocks described in Figure 12 are, optionally, combined
or separated into sub-blocks to implement the principles of the various described
                                                 85

  WO 2014/197339                                                              PCT/US2014/040415
embodiments. Therefore, the description herein optionally supports any possible
combination or separation or further definition of the functional blocks described herein.
[0287]       As shown in Figure 12, an electronic device 1200 includes a communications
interface unit 1202 configured to communicate with a plurality of displays that include a
first display and a second display. In some embodiments, electronic device 1200 also,
optionally, includes a display unit 1204 configured to display a user interface and a touch
sensitive surface unit 1206 configured to one or more receive touch inputs. Electronic
device 1200 further includes a processing unit 1208 coupled to communications interface
unit 1202, and, optionally, coupled to display unit 1204 and touch-sensitive surface unit
 1206. In some embodiments, processing unit 1208 includes a receiving unit 1210, an
selecting unit 1212, a sending unit 1214, a generating unit 1216, a determining unit 1218,
an updating unit 1220, a detecting unit 1222, and a mapping update unit 1224.
[0288]       Processing unit 1208 is configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 1210) a
first input information that is indicative of a first input detected by a first input source of a
plurality of input sources, where the first input information includes: a first identifier for
the first input source; and a first input description that describes the first input. Processing
unit 1208 is also configured to select (e.g., with selecting unit 1212) a first affected
display from the plurality of displays based on the first identifier and an input-source
mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays. Processing unit 1208 is
further configured to send (e.g., with sending unit 1214), to the first affected display,
update information that enables the first affected display to be updated in accordance with
the first input.
[0289]       In some embodiments, selecting the first affected display includes: in
accordance with a determination that the first input source is assigned to the first display
in the input-source mapping, selecting (e.g., with selecting unit 1212) the first display as
the first affected display that is affected by the first input; and in accordance with a
determination that the first input source is assigned to the second display, different from
the first display, in the input-source mapping, selecting (e.g., with selecting unit 1212) the
second display as the first affected display that is affected by the first input.
[0290]       In some embodiments, the update information includes information
corresponding to the first input.
[0291]       In some embodiments, the update information includes an updated user
interface for display at the first affected display.
                                                 86

  WO 2014/197339                                                             PCT/US2014/040415
[0292]       In some embodiments, the device generates user interfaces for two or more
displays of the plurality of displays and provides respective user interfaces to
corresponding displays.
[0293]       In some embodiments, prior to sending the update information to the first
affected display, processing unit 1208 is configured to generate (e.g., with generating unit
 1216) the update information based on the first input information, where: in accordance
with a determination that the first input description describes first input properties,
processing unit 1208 is configured to generate (e.g., with generating unit 1216) first
update information; and in accordance with a determination that the first input description
describes second input properties different from the first input properties, processing unit
 1208 is configured to generate (e.g., with generating unit 1216) second update information
different from the first update information.
[0294]       In some embodiments, after selecting the first affected display, processing unit
 1208 is configured to: determine (e.g., with determining unit 1218) a respective state of a
user interface displayed on the first affected display; and generate (e.g., with generating
unit 1216) the update information based on the first input description and the respective
state of the user interface displayed on the first affected display.
[0295]       In some embodiments, in accordance with a determination that the respective
state of the user interface displayed on the first affected display is a first state, the update
information corresponds to performing a first operation for the respective state of the user
interface displayed on the first affected display; and in accordance with a determination
that the respective state of the user interface displayed on the first affected display is a
second state different from the first state, the update information corresponds to
performing a second operation, different from the first operation, for the respective state
of the user interface displayed on the first affected display.
[0296]       In some embodiments, prior to receiving the first input information, the
respective user interface has a prior state; and processing unit 1208 is configured to update
(e.g., with updating unit 1220) the user interface to an updated state that is different from
the prior state based on the first input and the prior state of the respective user interface.
[0297]       In some embodiments, processing unit 1208 is configured to: detect (e.g., with
detecting unit 1222) a change in availability of a respective display of the plurality of
displays; and in response to detecting the change in availability of the respective display,
                                                 87

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
update (e.g., with mapping update unit 1224) the input-source mapping to show the
change in availability of the respective display.
[0298]       In some embodiments, while a respective input source is assigned to the first
display, processing unit 1208 is configured to detect (e.g., with detecting unit 1222) a
change in display assignment for a respective input source of the plurality of input sources
from the first display to the second display. And, in response to detecting the change in
display assignment for the respective input source, processing unit 1208 is configured to
update (e.g., with mapping update unit 1224) the input-source mapping to show the
change in display assignment for the respective input source, so that input information that
is indicative of inputs associated with the respective input source is used to update a user
interface displayed on the second display instead of being used to update a user interface
displayed on the first display.
[0299]       In some embodiments, after sending the update information that enables the
first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input, processing unit 1208
is configured to receive (e.g., with receiving unit 1210) second input information that is
indicative of a second input detected by a second input source of the plurality of input
sources distinct from the first input source, where the second input information includes: a
second identifier for the second input source; and a second input description that describes
the second input. Processing unit 1208 is also configured to: select (e.g., with selecting
unit 1212) a second affected display from the plurality of displays based on the second
identifier and the input-source mapping; and send (e.g., with sending unit 1214), to the
second affected display, update information that enables the second affected display to be
updated in accordance with the second input.
[0300]       The operations in the information processing methods described above are,
optionally, implemented by running one or more functional modules in information
processing apparatus such as general purpose processors (e.g., as described above with
respect to Figures 1A and 3) or application specific chips.
[0301]       The operations described above with reference to Figures 7A-7D, 8A-8B, and
9A-9C are, optionally, implemented by components depicted in Figures 1A-1B or Figures
 10-12. For example, displaying operation 702, receiving operation 722, detecting
operations 730 and 738, updating operation 742, obtaining operation 802, sending
operations 806 and 820, detecting operations 810 and 814, updating operations 812 and
818, receiving operations 902 and 928, identifying operations 904 and 930, sending
                                                88

  WO 2014/197339                                                           PCT/US2014/040415
operations 918 and 932, and/or detecting operations 934 and 936 are, optionally,
implemented by event sorter 170, event recognizer 180, and event handler 190. Event
monitor 171 in event sorter 170 detects a contact on touch-sensitive display 112, and event
dispatcher module 174 delivers the event information to application 136-1. A respective
event recognizer 180 of application 136-1 compares the event information to respective
event definitions 186, and determines whether a first contact at a first location on the
touch-sensitive surface (or whether rotation of the device) corresponds to a predefined
event or sub-event, such as selection of an object on a user interface, or rotation of the
device from one orientation to another. When a respective predefined event or sub-event
is detected, event recognizer 180 activates an event handler 190 associated with the
detection of the event or sub-event. Event handler 190 optionally uses or calls data updater
 176 or object updater 177 to update the application internal state 192. In some
embodiments, event handler 190 accesses a respective GUI updater 178 to update what is
displayed by the application. Similarly, it would be clear to a person having ordinary skill
in the art how other processes can be implemented based on the components depicted in
Figures lA-1B.
[0302]      The foregoing description, for purpose of explanation, has been described with
reference to specific embodiments. However, the illustrative discussions above are not
intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many
modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The
embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the
invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best
use the invention and various described embodiments with various modifications as are
suited to the particular use contemplated.
                                                89

1002001724
What is claimed is:
1.       A method, comprising:
at an electronic device that is in communication with a plurality of displays that include a
first display and a second display;
         receiving first input information that is indicative of a first input detected by a first
input source of a plurality of input sources, wherein the first input information includes:
                 a first identifier for the first input source; and
                 a first input description that describes the first input;
         selecting a first affected display from the plurality of displays based on the first
identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays;
and
         sending, to the first affected display, update information that enables the first
affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first affected display includes:
         in accordance with a determination that the first input source is assigned to the first
display in the input-source mapping, selecting the first display as the first affected display
that is affected by the first input; and
         in accordance with a determination that the first input source is assigned to the
second display, different from the first display, in the input-source mapping, selecting the
second display as the first affected display that is affected by the first input
3.       The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the update information includes
information corresponding to the first input.
4.       The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the update information includes an
updated user interface for display at the first affected display.
5.       The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein the device generates user interfaces for
two or more displays of the plurality of displays and provides respective user interfaces to
corresponding displays.
                                                    90

1002001724
6.       The method of any of claims 1-5, including, prior to sending the update information
to the first affected display, generating the update information based on the first input
information, wherein:
         in accordance with a determination that the first input description describes first
input properties, generating first update information; and
         in accordance with a determination that the first input description describes second
input properties different from the first input properties, generating second update
information different from the first update information.
7.       The method of any of claims 1-6, including, after selecting the first affected
display:
         determining a respective state of a user interface displayed on the first affected
display; and
         generating the update information based on the first input description and the
respective state of the user interface displayed on the first affected display.
8.       The method of claim 7, wherein:
         in accordance with a determination that the respective state of the user interface
displayed on the first affected display is a first state, the update information corresponds to
performing a first operation for the respective state of the user interface displayed on the
first affected display; and
         in accordance with a determination that the respective state of the user interface
displayed on the first affected display is a second state different from the first state, the
update information corresponds to performing a second operation, different from the first
operation, for the respective state of the user interface displayed on the first affected
display.
9.       The method of any of claims 7-8, wherein:
         prior to receiving the first input information, the respective user interface has a
prior state; and
         the method includes, updating the user interface to an updated state that is different
from the prior state based on the first input and the prior state of the respective user
interface.
                                                 91

1002001724
10.      The method of any of claims 1-9, including:
         detecting a change in availability of a respective display of the plurality of displays;
and
         in response to detecting the change in availability of the respective display,
updating the input-source mapping to show the change in availability of the respective
display.
11.      The method of any of claims 1-10, including:
         while a respective input source is assigned to the first display, detecting a change in
display assignment for a respective input source of the plurality of input sources from the
first display to the second display; and
         in response to detecting the change in display assignment for the respective input
source, updating the input-source mapping to show the change in display assignment for
the respective input source, so that input information that is indicative of inputs associated
with the respective input source is used to update a user interface displayed on the second
display instead of being used to update a user interface displayed on the first display.
12.      The method of any of claims 1-11, including, after sending the update information
that enables the first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input:
         receiving second input information that is indicative of a second input detected by a
second input source of the plurality of input sources distinct from the first input source,
wherein the second input information includes:
                 a second identifier for the second input source; and
                 a second input description that describes the second input;
         selecting a second affected display from the plurality of displays based on the
second identifier and the input-source mapping; and
         sending, to the second affected display, update information that enables the second
affected display to be updated in accordance with the second input.
13.      An electronic device, comprising:
a communications interface for communicating with a plurality of displays that include a
first display and a second display;
one or more processors;
memory; and
                                                92

1002001724
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and
configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for:
         receiving first input information that is indicative of a first input detected by a first
input source of a plurality of input sources, wherein the first input information includes:
                 a first identifier for the first input source; and
                 a first input description that describes the first input;
         selecting a first affected display from the plurality of displays based on the first
identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays;
and
         sending, to the first affected display, update information that enables the first
affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
14.      A computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or
more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by an electronic device that
is in communication with a plurality of displays that include a first display and a second
display, cause the device to:
         receive first input information that is indicative of a first input detected by a first
input source of a plurality of input sources, wherein the first input information includes:
                 a first identifier for the first input source; and
                 a first input description that describes the first input;
         select a first affected display from the plurality of displays based on the first
identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays;
and
         send, to the first affected display, update information that enables the first affected
display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
15.      A graphical user interface on a electronic device that is in communication with a
plurality of displays that include a first display and a second display, includes a display, a
memory, and one or more processors to execute one or more programs stored in the
memory, the graphical user interface comprising:
         a user interface;
         wherein:
                                                    93

1002001724
         first input information that is indicative of a first input detected by a first input
source of a plurality of input sources is received by the device, wherein the first input
information includes:
                  a first identifier for the first input source; and
                  a first input description that describes the first input;
         a first affected display from the plurality of displays is selected based on the first
identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to corresponding displays;
and
         update information is sent to the first affected display that enables the first affected
display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
16.      An electronic device that is in communication with a plurality of displays that
include a first display and a second display, the device comprising:
         means for receiving first input information that is indicative of a first input detected
by a first input source of a plurality of input sources, wherein the first input information
includes:
                  a first identifier for the first input source; and
                  a first input description that describes the first input;
         means for selecting a first affected display from the plurality of displays based on
the first identifier and an input-source mapping that maps input sources to corresponding
displays; and
         means for sending, to the first affected display, update information that enables the
first affected display to be updated in accordance with the first input.
17.      An electronic device, comprising:
a communications interface for communicating with a plurality of displays that include a
first display and a second display;
one or more processors;
memory; and
one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and
configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs
including instructions for performing any of the methods of claims 1-12.
                                                     94

1002001724
18.      A computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or
more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by an electronic device that
is in communication with a plurality of displays that include a first display and a second
display, cause the device to perform any of the methods of claims 1-12.
                                             95

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
