                                 ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a compound and its use in treating diseases related
to inflammation and oxidative stress. The compound has the following formula
                        C27H320'
                                    0
                                             0
                                   Formula 1
                                      23

                                        TITLE
     Methods of Treating Diseases Related to Inflammation and Oxidative Stress
                             FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to a method of treating diseases related to
 5 inflammation and oxidative stress.
                                   BACKGROUND
10 Inflammation is linked with oxidative stress, and antioxidants play a significant
   role in reducing inflammation. The activation of nuclear factor erythroid 2
   related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway inhibits the progression of inflammation. Nrf2
   mediated    antioxidant   gene  expression     reduces   the  macrophage      M1
   phenotype and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Since Nrf2
15 pathway plays a critical role in inflammation, Nrf2 activators are a potential
   therapeutic strategy for numerous disorders. Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate), a
   potent Nrf2 activator, has been approved for the treatment of multiple
   sclerosis, but long-term use of this drug can cause resistance and other side
   effects.
20
   In view of the demand for developing new Nrf2 activators, more therapeutic
   agents and treatment methods that activate Nrf2 pathway are desired.
                                           1

                                      SUMMARY
   One example embodiment is a method of treating a disease related to
   inflammation and oxidative stress in a patient. The method includes
 5 administering a compound to the patient to treat the disease. The compound
   has a formula of:
             0
                        0
                   0
   In one example embodiment, the disease is selected from a group consisting
   of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), inflammatory disorders, cardiovascular diseases,
10 neurodegenerative diseases, cancer, type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease
   and multiple sclerosis.
   Other example embodiments are discussed herein.
                                          2

                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Figure 1 shows the effect of the compound of formula I (i.e. DC) on the
   release of NO and PGE2 in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells in accordance
 5 with an example embodiment. (A) The chemical structure of the compound of
   formula I (B) Cytotoxicity of the compound of formula I on LPS-unstimulated
   RAW264.7 cells, (C) Cytotoxicity of the compound of formula I on LPS
   stimulated RAW264.7 cells. The cells were treated with the compound of
   formula I at various concentrations (1.25-40pM) for 1 h, and then stimulated
10 with or without LPS for 18 h, the cell viability was analyzed with MTT method.
   Effects of the compound of formula I on the productions of NO (D) and PGE2
   (E) in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells. The cells were incubated with
   indicated concentrations of the compound of formula I or dexamethasone
   (DEX) for 1 h, and then stimulated with LPS for 18 h. The concentration of NO
15 (expressed as nitrite) and PGE2 in the culture medium were quantified by the
   Griess reagent and ELISA assay according to the manufacturer's protocol
   respectively. Results are expressed as mean ± SEM of three independent
   experiments (N=3). # p < 0.05, ## p < 0.01, vs. LPS-unstimulated cells (B and
   C) or * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, vs. LPS-stimulated cells (D and E).
20
   Figure 2 shows effects of the compound of formula I (i.e. DC) on the
   expressions of iNOS, COX-2, TNF-a and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7
   cells in accordance with an example embodiment. The cells were plated in 24
   well plates and incubated for 24 h, next the cells were pretreated with
25 indicated concentration of the compound of formula I for 1 h and stimulated
   with LPS for 18 h. The total proteins of the cells were prepared and the
   expressions of iNOS (A, B) and COX-2 (A, C) were analyzed by western
   blotting. Total mRNA was prepared, the mRNA expressions of iNOS (D) and
   COX-2 (E) were analyzed by real time PCR. The protein expression levels of
30 TNF-a (F) and IL-6 (G) in cell supernatant were analyzed by ELISA. The
   mRNA expression of TNF-a (H) and IL-6 (I) were analyzed by real time PCR.
   Results are expressed as mean ± SEM of three independent experiments
   (N=3). * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, vs. LPS-stimulated cells.
                                            3

   Figure 3 shows the effect of the compound of formula I (i.e. DC) on the
   activation of NF-KB and MAPK pathways in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells in
   accordance with an example embodiment. The cells were plated in 24-well
   plates and incubated for 24 h, next the cells were pretreated with indicated
 5 concentration of the compound of formula I for 1 h and stimulated with LPS for
   15min. The total proteins of the cells were prepared and the expression of
   phosphorylation level of IKKa/p, p65 and IKBa (A) were detected by Western
   blotting. The cells were treated with the compound of formula I (10 pM) for 1 h
   and stimulated with LPS for 15min. The subcellular localization of p65 was
10 detected with immunofluorescence assay (B) and the images were acquired
   using the Leica DM2500 fluorescent microscopy. The total proteins of the
   cells were prepared and the expression of phosphorylation levels of JNK,
   ENK and p38 (C) were detected by Western blotting. Results are expressed
   as mean ± SEM of three independent experiments (N=3). * p < 0.05, ** p <
15 0.01, vs. LPS-stimulated cells.
   Figure 4 shows the effect of the compound of formula I (i.e. DC) on the
   expressions of M1,      ROS, Keapi, HO-1        and NQO1    in LPS-stimulated
   RAW264.7 cells in accordance with an example embodiment. RAW264.7 cells
20 were pretreated with indicated concentrations of the compound of formula I for
   1 h, then cells were incubated for 6 h in the absence of LPS, then collected all
   the cells and cellular staining for F/480 and CD11c, the M1 markers (A)
   according to the manufacturer's directions. The intracellular level of ROS (B)
   was determined using the fluorescent probe 2,7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein
25 diacetate (DCFH-DA). The cells were plated in 24-well plates and incubated
   for 24 h, next the cells were pretreated with indicated concentration of the
   compound of formula I for 1 h and stimulated with LPS for 18 h. The total
   proteins of the cells were prepared and the expression of Keapi (C, D),
   NQO1 (C, E) and HO-1 (C, F) were analyzed by Western blotting. The mRNA
30 expressions of NQO1 (G) and HO-1 (H) were analyzed by real time PCR.
   Results are expressed as mean ± SEM of three independent experiments
   (N=3). * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, vs. LPS-stimulated cells.
                                           4

   Figure 5 shows the effect of the compound of formula I (i.e. DC) on the
   nuclear translocation of Nrf2 and the expression of Keapi, NQO1, HO-1 and
   p62 in LPS-unstimulated RAW264.7 cells in accordance with an example
   embodiment. The cells were treated with SFN or the compound of formula 1
 5 (10 pM) for 3 h. The subcellular localization of Nrf2 was detected with
   immunofluorescence assay (A) and the images were acquired using the Leica
   DM2500      fluorescent microscopy.      The   total proteins,  nuclear protein,
   cytoplasmic protein of the cells were prepared and the expression of Nrf2 in
   total proteins (A), nuclear protein (B) and cytoplasmic protein (C) of the cells
10 were analyzed by Western blotting. The cells were plated in 24-well plates
   and incubated for 24 h, next the cells were pretreated with indicated
   concentration of the compound of formula I for 1 h and stimulated with or
   without LPS for 18 h. The total proteins of the cells were prepared and the
   expressions of Keapi (E,F), NQO1 (E,G), HO-1 (E,H) and p62 (K) were
15 analyzed by Western blotting. The mRNA expressions of NQO1 (I) and HO
   1(J) were analyzed by real time PCR. Results are expressed as mean ± SEM
   of three independent experiments (N=3). # p < 0.05, ## p<0.01, vs. LPS
   unstimulated cells. * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, vs. LPS-unstimulated cells.
20 Figure 6 shows the effect of Nrf2 siRNA and HO-1 inhibitor on the anti
   inflammatory effect of the compound of formula I (i.e. DC). The effect of Nrf2
   siRNA on the expression of Nrf2 (A, B, C, D, E, G), HO-1 (D, F, H) and NO (I).
   For transfection, the cells were seeded in 24-well culture plates and incubated
   with the control siRNA or Nrf2 siRNA at 300 nM for 24-48 h in serum-free
25 OPTI-MEM media. The total proteins of Nrf2 (A, B) were analyzed by Western
   blotting. The mRNA expression of Nrf2 (C) were analyzed by real time PCR.
   The transfected cells were also pretreated with indicated concentration of the
   compound of formula I for 1 h and stimulated with or without LPS for 18 h.
   The total proteins of the cells were prepared and the expressions of Nrf2 (D, E)
30 and HO-1 (D, F) were analyzed by Western blotting. The mRNA expressions
   of Nrf2 (G) and HO-1 (H) were analyzed by real time PCR. The concentration
   of NO (1) in the culture medium were quantified. The cells were pretreated
   with indicated concentrations of ZnPP for 1 h, and then stimulated with the
                                            5

  compound of formula I for 1h, at last, treated with LPS for 18 h. The
  concentration of NO (J) in the culture medium were quantified. Results are
  expressed as mean ± SEM of three independent experiments (N=3).         AAA p <
  0.05 vs. NS siRNA treated cells (B and C), * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01, vs. LPS or
5 LPS and NS siRNA treated cells (E, F, G, H and 1). # p < 0.05 vs. ZnPP
  treated cells (J).
                                        6

                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Example embodiments relate to a compound and its anti-inflammatory and
   anti-oxidant effect. The compound has the following formula 1:
                             C2,H 2 0,
                                          0
                                                    0
                                       -       0
 5
                                         Formula I
   In the innate immune response, macrophages serve as the first line of
   defense against invading pathogens, and therefore it can promote cell
10 protection and repair processes. Activated macrophage produces a variety of
   pro-inflammatory mediators, such as interleukin -6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis
   factor alpha (TNF-a), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and nitric oxide (NO), which
   can promote the development of inflammatory.
15 In one example embodiment, the compound significantly reduces the release
   of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in LPS-activated RAW264.7
   cells. The expression of pro-inflammatory proteins including inducible nitric
   oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) are also obviously
   inhibited by the compound. Besides, the production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and
20 tumor necrosis factor-a (TNF-a) are also obviously inhibited by the compound.
   Furthermore, the compound inhibits the macrophage M1 phenotype and the
   production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mechanism studies show that
   the compound mainly activates nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)
   signaling pathway to increase anti-oxidant protein heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1)
25 to achieve its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects. Nrf2 siRNA and HO-1
   inhibitor significantly abolish the effect of the compound. The compound is a
                                             7

   new Nrf2 activator for the treatment and prevention of diseases related to
   inflammation and oxidative stress.
   In one example embodiment, the disease related to inflammation and
 5 oxidative stress includes but not limited to rheumatoid arthritis (RA),
   inflammatory disorders, cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases,
   cancer, type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease and multiple sclerosis.
   Examples
10 Example 1- Materials and Methods
   1.1 Materials:
   The compound of formula I has a more than 98% of HPLC purity.
   Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), sulforaphane (SFN), dexamethasone (DEX), zinc
15 protoporphyrin IX (ZnPP) and antibody to a-Tubulin were were obtained from
   Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, MO, USA). Antibodies to iNOS, COX-2, p
   IKKa/P, p-p65 p-IKBa, IKKa/P, p65, IKBa, p-JNK, p-ENK, p-p38, JNK, ERK,
   p38, Nrf2 and Keap1 from Cell Signaling Technology (Boston, MA, USA).
   Antibodies to p62, HO-1 and NQO-1 were from Abcam (Abcam, Sigma
20 Aldrich). ELISA kits for PGE2 from Cayman Chemical (Cayman Chemical,
   Ann Arbor, USA), ELISA kits for IL-6, IL-1p and TNF-a from eBioscience
   (eBioscience, Inc., USA). Griess reagent from Promega (Promega, USA).
   siRNA for Nrf2 (sc-37049), control siRNA (sc-37007) and antibody to p-actin
   were from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, CA, USA). The secondary
25 antibodies for Western blot from Li-COR Biotechnology (Lincoln, NE, USA).
   1.2. Cell culture
   The RAW264.7 cells were from American Type Culture Collection (ATCC,
   Manassas, VA, USA). The cells were retained in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's
30 medium (DMEM), which contained L-glutamine (2 mM), penicillin G(100U/ml),
   10% heat-inactivated FBS and streptomycin (100 mg/ml). The cells were
   incubated in a cell incubator which included 37 'C and 5% C02. The classical
   inflammatory cell model, LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cell, was chosen for the
   research of the anti-inflammatory activity of the compound of formula I.
                                           8

   1.3. Cytotoxicity assay
   Cell viability was determined by MTT assay. Briefly, RAW264.7 cells were
   seeded in a 96-well tissue culture plate at density of 1.4x104 cells/well for 24
 5 h, and then exposed to the compound of formula I at various concentrations
   (1.25, 2.5, 5, 10 and 20 pM) for 18 h with or without LPS. MTT solution (5 g/L)
   was added at 10 pL per well, then incubated at 37    OC for 4 h, then added 100
   pL 10 % SDS-HCI solution. At last, optical density was determined at 570 nm
   (the reference wavelength is 650 nm).
10
   1.4. Measurement of NO, PGE2, TNF-a and IL-6
   RAW264.7 cells were seeded in a 24 well plate, the density is 8x104 cells/well
   and incubated for 24 h. The cells were then pretreated with the compound of
   formula I for 1 h, and next exposed to LPS (100 ng/mL) for 18 h. After
15 collecting the cell supernatant, the concentration of NO, PGE2, TNF-a and IL
   6 were detected according to the manufacturer's instructions.
   1.5. Real-time PCR analysis
   RAW264.7 cells were seeded at a density of 8x104 cells/well, and then
20 incubated for 24 h. The cells were pretreated with various concentrations (2.5,
   5 and 10 pM) of the compound of formula I for 1 h, and then exposed to LPS
   (100 ng/mL) for 18 h. Total RNA was isolated from the cells using the RNeasy
   Mini Kit (Qiagen, Germany). One microgram of total RNA was synthesized
   into cDNA by using the kit from Roche. Target RNA levels were determined
25 by using ViiATM 7 real-time PCR. The primers used in the example were
   listed in Table 1.
                          Table 1 The primers for qRT-PCR
     Target gene                   Primer sequences
     p-actinF                5'-CGGTTCCGATGCCCTGAGGCTCTT-3'
     p-actinR                5'-CGTCACACTTCATGATGGAATTGA-3'
     iNOSF                   5'-CAGCACAGGAAATGTTTCAGC-3'
                                           9

    iNOSR                    5'-TAGCCAGCGTACCGGATGA-3'
    COX-2_F                  5'-TTTGGTCTGGTGCCTGGTC-3'
    COX-2_R                  5'-CTGCTGGTTTGGAATAGTTGCTC-3'
    TNF-aF                   5'-TATGGCTCAGGGTCCAACTC-3'
    TNF-aR                   5'-CTCCCTTTGCAGAACTCAGG-3'
    IL-6_F                   5'-GGTGACAACCACGGCCTTCCC-3'
    IL-6_R                   5'-AAGCCTCCGACTTGTGAAGTGGT-3'
    Nrf2_F                   5'-AGCAGGACATGGAGCAAGTT-3'
    Nrf2_R                   5'-TTCTTTTTCCAGCGAGGAGA-3'
    HO-1_F                   5'-CCCACCAAGTTCAAACAGCTC-3'
    HO-1_R                   5'-AGGAAGGCGGTCTTAGCCTC-3'
    NQO1_F                   5'-TTCTGTGGCTTCCAGGTCTT-3'
    NQOlR                    5'-AGGCTGCTTGGAGCAAAATA-3'
   1.6. Protein preparation and Western blot analysis
   RAW264.7 cells (8x104 cells/well) were seeded in 24 well plates, after
   incubated for 24 h, the cells were treated with various concentration (2.5, 5
 5 and 10 pM) of the compound of formula I, DEX (0.5 pM) or SFN (0.5 pM) for 1
   h, then exposed to LPS (100 ng/mL) for 3 h or 18 h. The cells were lysed
   using RIPA lysis buffer and protein concentration was detected by using the
   Bradford Assay Reagent (Bio-Rad, PA, USA). The nuclear and cytoplasmic
   protein fractions were extracted by using NE-PER nuclear and cytoplasmic
10 extraction kit (Thermo, Pierce, USA). Equal amounts of proteins were then
   separated by SDS-PAGE and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane, the
   membrane was blocked by using 5 % BSA solution, then incubated with the
   corresponding primary antibody for overnight at 4 C. Then, the membranes
   were incubated with secondary antibodies for 1 h at 24     OC.  The band of
15 antigen-antibody complexes were scanned by using the Odyssey CLx Imager
   (Li-COR, USA).
                                         10

   1.7. Immunofluorescence analysis
   For immunofluorescence analysis, RAW264.7 cells were seeded in the glass
   coverslip in six-well plates at a density of 2.0x105 cells/well, incubated
   overnight. After the treatment of 10 pM the compound of formula I or SFN for
 5 3 h, the cells were fixed with 4 % paraformaldehyde for 30 min at room
   temperature, and subsequently permeabilized with 0.1 % Triton X-100 and
   blocked with 5 % BSA for 30min. The cells were incubated with Nrf2 antibody
   for overnight, then incubated with the secondary antibody (Alexa Fluor 488
   conjugated secondary antibody) for 1 h. At last, the cells were stained with
10 DAPI for 5 min. The fluorescence images were captured by using a Leica
   TCS SP8 Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope System (Leica, Wetzlar,
   Germany).
   1.8. Flow cytometric analysis
15 ROS induction and macrophage M1             subtypes were detected by flow
   cytometry. The cells (3x105 cells/well) were cultured in 6 well plates,
   incubated for 18 h then treated by 10 pM the compound of formula I for 1 hour,
   followed by stimulation with LPS (100 ng/mL) for 6 h. The cells were collected
   and stained for F/480 and CD11c to detect macrophage M1 subtypes
20 according to the manufacturer's directions (BioLegend, San Diego, CA, USA)
   or stained with the fluorescent probe 2,7-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate
   (DCFH-DA)     to determine     ROS level according to the       manufacturer's
   directions (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA).
25 1.9. Transfection assays
   Nrf2 siRNA and control siRNA were transfected into RAW264.7 cells by using
   lipofectamine 2000 reagent (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA, USA) according to the
   manufacturer's directions. In brief, the cells were seeded in 24-well culture
   plates and incubated with the control siRNA or Nrf2 siRNA at 300 nM for 24
30 48 h in serum-free OPTI-MEM media (Invitrogen, USA). After incubation, the
   transfected cells were pretreated       with  indicated concentration  of the
   compound of formula I for 1 h and stimulated with or without LPS (100 ng/ml)
   for 18 h. The cells were prepared and the expression of Nrf2 and HO-1 were
   analyzed by real-time PCR and Western blotting.
                                          11

   1.10. Statistical analysis
   The results are expressed as mean ± SEM and represent three independent
   experiments. Statistical analysis was carried out by using one-way ANOVA
 5 with Tukey's multiple comparison tests in GraphPad Prism7. P<0.05 were
   considered statistically significant.
   Example 2 Studies showing that the compound of formula I reduced the
   production of NO and PGE2 in LPS-stimulated macrophages.
10
   MTT results showed that the compound of formula I at 1.25 to 10 pM
   concentrations is the safe dosage for RAW264.7 cells both with or without
   LPS stimulation (Figs. 1B-C). Based on these results, 2.5 pM to 10 pM the
   compound of formula I were selected to study the anti-inflammatory activity.
15 When the cells were exposed to LPS for 18 h, the production of NO in the cell
   supernatant was significantly increased (p<0.01). The compound of formula I
   obviously reduced the NO production induced by LPS (Fig. 1D). Pretreatment
   with the compound of formula I for 1 h also obviously reduced the production
   of PGE2 induced by LPS (Fig. 1E). DEX is a classic anti-inflammatory drug
20 that significantly inhibits the release of inflammatory indicators, therefore, it
   was selected as a positive control to evaluate the anti-inflammatory activity of
   the compound of formula 1.As shown in Fig.1 D-E, the levels of NO and PGE2
   were also significantly reduced by DEX.
25 Example 3 Studies showing that the compound of formula I suppressed the
   expression of iNOS, COX-2, TNF-a and IL-6 in LPS-stimulated macrophages
   In the inflammatory response, NO and PGE2 are synthesized by inducible
   nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), respectively. Fig.
30 2A-C show that iNOS and COX-2 proteins were increased in LPS treatment
   group, while the compound of formula I pre-treatment decreased the elevated
   expression levels of iNOS and COX-2 protein. DEX also obviously inhibited
   the expressions of iNOS and COX-2 proteins (Figs. 2A-C). As shown in Figs.
   2D-E, LPS stimulation increased the mRNA levels of iNOS and COX-2, the
                                           12

   compound of formula I pre-treatment decreased the elevated mRNA levels of
   iNOS and COX-2, DEX also showed similar inhibitory effects as the
   compound of formula 1. When inflammation occurs, activated macrophages
   act as the major effector cells that secrete large amounts of inflammatory
 5 mediators (e.g., TNF-a and IL-6) to promote the development and progression
   of inflammation. Therefore, these related inflammatory mediators, including
   TNF-a and IL-6 were detected. As shown in Figs. 2F-G, LPS stimulation
   increased the protein levels of TNF-a and IL-6, while the increased TNF-a and
   IL-6 protein levels were both significantly inhibited by the compound of
10 formula I and DEX. LPS stimulation also increased the mRNA levels of TNF-a
   and IL-6, while these increases were both significantly inhibited by the
   compound of formula I and DEX (Figs. 2H-1).
   Example 4 Studies showing that the compound of formula I failed to inhibit the
15 activation of NF-KB and MAPK pathway in LPS-stimulated macrophages
   Nuclear factor-KB (NF-KB) pathway is activated in inflammatory processes
   and then promotes the expression of inflammatory mediators in different cells,
   including   macrophages.    LPS activates NF-KB      pathway to induce the
20 production of inflammatory cytokines. Mitogen-activated protein kinases
   (MAPK) pathway also plays a critical role in inflammatory responses. The
   activation of NF-KB and MAPK signaling pathways are both involved in the
   development of inflammation. Therefore, the inhibition of NF-KB and MAPK
   signaling   pathways   are   considered   as the   useful   ways to   regulate
25 inflammatory reaction. In the non-inflammatory condition, NF-KB and IKBa are
   present in the cytoplasm as complex. The activation of NF-KB resulted in the
   phosphorylation of IKBa, IKKa/P, p65, and then leading to the transcription of
   inflammatory genes and the expression of inflammatory proteins. As Fig. 3A
   shows, LPS stimulation increased the phosphorylation of IKBa, IKKa/p, and
30 p65. However, the compound of formula I failed to inhibit the increased levels
   of those proteins (Fig. 3A). LPS also increased the nuclear translocation of
   NF-KB p65 protein, but the pretreatment of the compound of formula I failed to
   inhibit the nuclear translocation of NF-KB p65 induced by LPS (Fig. 3B).
   MAPKs activation involves in regulating inflammation process. The activation
                                          13

   of MAPK pathway resulted in the phosphorylation of p38, JNK and ERK,
   which promotes pro-inflammatory cytokines production. The results showed
   that LPS increased the protein expression of p-JNK, p-p38 and p-ERK (Fig.
   3C), but the compound of formula I pretreatment didn't inhibit the increased
 5 levels of p-JNK, p-p38 and p-ERK proteins induced by LPS (Fig. 3C).
   Example 5 Studies showing the compound of formula I attenuated LPS
   induced M1 phenotype and ROS generation and also increased the levels of
   HO-1, NQO1 in LPS-stimulated macrophages
10
   Nrf2-mediated antioxidant gene expression reduced the M1 phenotype and
   ROS production which contribute to anti-inflammatory effect. Macrophages
   could polarize to M1 phenotype under an inflammatory environment. As
   shown in Fig. 4A, LPS induced an increase of macrophages in M1 phenotype
15 and the compound of formula I pretreatment suppressed this increase. ROS
   participates in inflammation, the activation of Nrf2 could decrease the levels of
   ROS. As shown in Fig.4B, intracellular ROS was increased by LPS
   stimulation and the compound of formula I pretreatment suppressed the ROS
   generation induced by LPS.
20
   Nrf2 and Nrf2 repressor protein Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1)
   are present in the cytoplasm as a complex under normal conditions, but
   Keap1 can be activated by various stimuli, this results in the dissociation of
   Nrf2 from Keapi, leading to Nrf2 translocation to the nucleus. Nrf2 dimerizes
25 with small Maf proteins in the nucleus, and then binds cis-oxidation reaction
   elements,      i.e.:     heme      oxygenase-1      (HO-1)     and     NAD(P)H
   quinoneoxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), to activate their transcription. Antioxidant
   protein HO-1 has anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. Many studies
   have shown that defective expression of HO-1 in humans is accompanied by
30 an   increase in the inflammatory state. Nrf2 also could increase the
   transcription of its target genes, including HO-1 and NQO1.
   In order to study whether the compound of formula I could exert its anti
   inflammatory effect through activating Nrf2 pathway, the upstream protein
                                            14

   (Keapi) and the downstream proteins (HO-1 and NQO1) of Nrf2 pathway
   were investigated. As shown in Figs. 4C-H, compared with LPS-unstimulated
   RAW264.7 cell, LPS obviously decreased the level of Keapi protein (Figs.
   4C-D) and increased the levels of NQO1 and HO-1 proteins (Figs. 4C, E and
 5 F) and the expressions of NQO1 and HO-1 mRNA (Figs. 4C, G and H).
   Pretreatment with the compound of formula I significantly and dose
   dependently enhanced the decrease of Keapi              protein (Fig. 4C-D), the
   increase of NQO1 and HO-1 proteins (Figs. 4C, E and F) and the expressions
   of NQO1 and HO-1 mRNA (Figs. 4C, G and H) in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7
10 cells compared with LPS group. DEX have no obvious influence on the
   protein level of Keapi and the mRNA and protein expressions of NQO1 and
   HO-1 in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells compared with LPS group (Fig. 4G
   H).
15 Example 6 Studies showing that the compound of formula I promoted Nrf2
   protein nucleus translocation and activated Nrf2 pathway through                the
   inhibition of Keapi in unstimulated macrophages.
   The above studies have showed that the compound of formula I could
20 increase the protein levels of HO-1 and NQO1 in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7
   cells. Next, the effects of the compound of formula I on Nrf2 pathway in LPS
   unstimulated RAW264.7 cells were also investigated. Sulforaphane (SFN), a
   potent Nrf2 activator, was selected as a positive control. As shown in Fig. 5A,
   pretreatment of the compound of formula I promoted Nrf2 protein entering into
25 the nucleus in RAW264.7 cells, and this is similar to SFN. Measurement of
   Nrf2 protein in different compartment of cell by Western blot also revealed the
   same. The compound of formula I or SFN pretreatment both decreased the
   level of Nrf2 in cytosol (Fig. 5C) but increased the level of Nrf2 in nucleus (Fig.
   5D), while the total protein level of Nrf2 remained unchanged (Fig. 5B). The
30 results also indicated that the compound of formula I significantly and dose
   dependently decreased the level of Keapi protein (Figs. 5E-F), increased the
   levels of NQO1 and HO-1 proteins (Figs. 5E, G and H) and the expressions of
   NQO1 and HO-1 mRNA (Figs. 51&J) in unstimulated RAW264.7 cell.
                                            15

   p62 is considered as an upstream protein of Nrf2 and can activate Nrf2 by
   inducing Keapi protein inactivation. In order to investigate whether the
   compound of formula I activates Nrf2 pathway though increasing the
   expression of p62, the effect of the compound of formula I on p62 was also
 5 explored. The result shows that the compound of formula I didn't promote p62
   protein expression in LPS-unstimulated RAW264.7 macrophages (Fig. 5K).
   Example 7 Studies showing that Nrf2 siRNA and HO-1 inhibitor significantly
   abolished the effect of the compound of formula I
10
   To further demonstrate the contribution of Nrf2 signaling on the anti
   inflammatory effect of the compound of formula I, Nrf2 gene knockdown
   model was established by using Nrf2 siRNA transfection in RAW 264.7 cells.
   The results show that the gene and protein expressions of Nrf2 were
15 significantly suppressed by using specific Nrf2 siRNA (Figs. 6A-C). The
   increases in Nrf2 and HO-1 at mRNA and protein level caused by the
   compound of formula I pretreatment were significantly suppressed by Nrf2
   siRNA (Figs. 6D-H). The suppressive effect of the compound of formula I on
   NO production induced by LPS was also abolished by Nrf2 siRNA (Fig. 61). In
20 addition, ZnPP, the inhibitor of HO-1, significantly reversed the inhibitory
   effect of the compound of formula I on NO generation induced by LPS (Fig.
   6J). These results confirmed the important role of Nrf2 signaling pathway in
   the anti-inflammatory effect of the compound of formula 1.
25
   When inflammation occurs, activated macrophages release a large number of
   different inflammatory mediators (NO, PGE2, TNF-a and IL-6) and regulatory
   enzymes (iNOS and COX-2). LPS stimulation elevated the levels of these
   inflammatory mediators (NO, PGE2, TNF-a and IL-6) and regulatory enzymes
30 (iNOS and COX-2), but the increases of these inflammatory mediators and
   regulatory enzymes were significantly inhibited by the compound of formula I
   (Figs. 1-2), showing that the compound of formula I has obvious anti
   inflammatory activity in LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophage cells.
                                          16

   There were reports showing that the inhibition of LPS-induced NO, PGE2,
   iNOS, COX-2, TNF-a and IL-6 through the inactivation of NF-KB and MAPK
   pathway in RAW 264.7 cells. In order to study the anti-inflammatory
   mechanism of the compound of formula I, the effects of the compound of
 5 formula I on the activation of NF-KB and MAPK pathways in LPS-stimulated
   RAW264.7 cells were investigated, but the results suggested that the
   compound of formula I didn't inhibit the activation of NF-KB and MAPK
   pathways (Figs. 3A-C), so the compound of formula I may not act on the
   activation of NF-KB and MAPK pathways to exert its anti-inflammatory effects.
10
   The    activation   of Nrf2   pathway prevents       LPS-induced  transcriptional
   upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6. Since the result
   showed that the compound of formula I inhibited IL-6 obviously (Fig. 2G), so
   the compound of formula I may activate Nrf2 pathway to exert its anti
15 inflammatory effect. As described before, Nrf2 pathway mediated antioxidant
   gene expression reduced the M1 phenotype and ROS production. In order to
   verify the hypothesis of this study, the M1 phenotype and ROS production in
   LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells were examined, and the results showed that
   the elevated M1 phenotype and ROS production induced by LPS were
20 significantly inhibited by the compound of formula I (Figs. 4A-B), suggesting
   that the compound of formula I exerts anti-inflammatory effects by activating
   the Nrf2 pathway.
   The Nrf2-dependent anti-oxidant genes HO-1 and NQO-1 could block TNF-a
25 and IL-6 inflammatory mediators. In Nrf2-knockout mice, the anti-inflammatory
   effect disappeared. Nrf2-knockout mice showed increased mRNA and protein
   levels of COX-2, iNOS, IL-6, and TNF-a. Furthermore, the activation of Nrf2
   lead to its nuclear translocation, resulting in the decrease of COX2 and iNOS.
   The compound of formula I inhibited the expressions of inflammatory proteins
30 (COX-2 and iNOS, Figs. 2A-C) and inflammatory cytokines (TNF-a and IL-6,
   Figs. 2E-F) accompanied by the increase of antioxidant proteins HO-1 and
   NQO1 (Figs. 4C, E, and F). All these results further indicated that the
   compound of formula I activates Nrf2 pathway to exert its anti-inflammatory
   effects.
                                            17

   In oxidative stress and inflammation conditions, enhancement of HO-1
   expression plays an important role in cell protection. HO-1 can be rapidly
   induced by various oxidative-inducing agents, also including LPS. The results
 5 also showed that LPS increased the level of HO-1 slightly, but compared with
   LPS group, the compound of formula I further increased the level of HO-1
   protein dramatically (Figs. 4C& F). The high expression of HO-1 can inhibit
   LPS-induced NO production. The compound of formula I reduced NO
   production while increasing HO-1 expression (Figs. 1D and 4C&F), and the
10 results are consistent with that the high expression of HO-1 can inhibit LPS
   induced NO production.
   SFN is a known and potent Nrf2 activator and capable of preventing toxicity of
   organic chemicals and has antioxidant protection effects. DEX had strong
15 anti-inflammatory activity, but didn't show any effect on the activation Nrf2
   pathway, implying that DEX produced its anti-inflammatory effect through a
   Nrf2 independent way. Therefore, SFN was chosen as a positive drug to
   evaluate the antioxidant activity and underlying mechanisms related to Nrf2
   pathway of the compound of formula 1. The results showed that both the
20 compound of formula I and SFN increased the levels of HO-1, NQO1 and
   decreased Keap1 in LPS-unstimulated RAW264.7 cell (Figs. 5E-J). Since the
   compound of formula I increased the downstream proteins (HO-1 and NQO1)
   of Nrf2 pathway, the compound of formula I could also activate Nrf2 and make
   Nrf2 protein entering into the nucleus. The compound of formula I increased
25 the nuclear translocation of Nrf2 (Fig.     5A&D), which confirms that the
   compound of formula I can activate Nrf2 pathway. Interestingly, compared
   with SFN group, the effect of the compound of formula I is more significant,
   suggesting that the compound of formula I had stronger effect in activating
   Nrf2 pathway and can be a potential new Nrf2 activator.
30
   In normal physiological status, Nrf2 and Keapi coexist in the cytoplasm. Upon
   stimulation, Keapi undergoes degradation, leading to the entry of Nrf2 from
   the cytoplasm into the nucleus, and then induce the expression of HO-1. The
   protein p62, which is on the upstream of Nrf2 pathway, can inactivate Keapi
                                          18

   and activate Nrf2. The results showed that the compound of formula I
   inhibited the expression of Keapi        (Figs. 5E-F) but didn't increase p62
   expression (Fig. 5K), suggesting that the compound of formula I can induce
   Nrf2 activation through inhibiting Keapi expression instead of upregulating
 5 p62 protein.
   To further confirm the pivotal role of the Nrf2 pathway in the anti-inflammatory
   effect of the compound of formula I, Nrf2 siRNA was employed to down
   regulate the gene and protein expression. The results showed that Nrf2
10 siRNA abolished the up-regulation effect on HO-1 and down-regulation effect
   on NO production of the compound of formula I in macrophages stimulated
   with LPS (Fig. 61). In addition, ZnPP (HO-1 inhibitor) also partly reversed the
   effect of the compound of formula I on the production of NO (Fig. 6J). These
   results confirmed that the anti-inflammatory effect of the compound of formula
15 I was mediated by Nrf2/HO-i.
   Nrf2 activator can be used as potential therapies for numerous disorders, but
   there are very few Nrf2 activators in clinical. In addition, the current available
   Nrf2 activator, dimethyl fumarate, has showed drug resistance and side
20 effects. Therefore, there is significant needs to develop new and safer Nrf2
   activator for clinical use. The compound of formula I exerted anti-inflammatory
   effects mainly through the activation of Nrf2 pathway, rather than inhibiting
   NF-KB and MAPK pathways. This implies that the compound of formula I can
   be a new Nrf2 activator and has the potential to be developed as new drug.
25
   Nrf2 pathway plays an important role in oxidative stress response and
   metabolism. Nrf2 activation can significantly inhibit the onset of diabetes and
   prevent diabetes. Since the compound of formula I also activates Nrf2
   pathway in the absence of LPS, it indicated that the compound of formula I
30 could not only treat inflammation but also prevent many other diseases
   related to oxidative stress response and metabolism.
   The compound of formula I, a novel Nrf2 activator, acts Nrf2/HO-i pathway to
   exert its anti-inflammatory effects against LPS-induced inflammation. Besides,
                                            19

  the unique anti-inflammatory mechanism of the compound of formula I can
  provide a new therapeutic window for the prevention and treatment of
  oxidative damage and inflammation-related diseases.
5
                                      20

                                  CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1. A method of treating a disease related to inflammation and oxidative stress
in a patient, comprising:
     administering a compound to the patient to treat the disease,
     wherein the compound has a formula of
               0
                          O
                       0
               -
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the disease related to inflammation and
oxidative stress is selected from a group consisting of rheumatoid arthritis
(RA), inflammatory disorders, cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative
diseases, cancer, type 2 diabetes, chronic kidney disease and multiple
sclerosis.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound reduces the production of
nitric oxide (NO), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), inducible nitric oxide synthase
(iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis
factor-a (TNF-a).
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound inhibits the macrophage M1
phenotype and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS).
                                      21

5. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound achieves its anti
inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects by activating nuclear factor-E2-related
factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway to increase anti-oxidant protein heme
oxygenase-1 (HO-1).
                                     22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                  '
<removed-date>
                             "#$
                               "%&
                                 !
                                   !
                             "%&#
<removed-apn>
                             "%&#
                             
                                                                   
                              
                                         '"            !                 ()(
              &
                             * +)*
                              
                       
              
                                
                                
                                
                               
                                 
                                    
                               
                                                                    
                                  
                                                 Figure 3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
