                                     ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
                 A stepladder includes a front section having a first front leg and a second front leg. The
stepladder includes a step attached to the first front leg and the second front leg. The stepladder
includes a latch engaged with the step. The stepladder includes a rear section having a first rear leg and
a second rear leg and a cross bar attached to the first rear leg and the second rear leg. The rear section
is pivotably attached to the front section. The rear section has a first stud which extends from the first
rear leg toward the second rear leg and separate and apart and not in contact with the second rear leg
and not in contact with the cross bar. The latch is engaged with and latched to the first stud to define an
engaged position where the first front leg and the first rear leg are in an open position and form an
inverted v shape and are prevented from folding together, and the latch when pulled up from the
engaged position, disengages from the first stud and allows the front section and rear section to fold
together into a closed position where the first rear leg and the first front leg are in parallel. A method of
positioning a step ladder.

     1001
                                          la
                                            2
                             3
                  0110
                                  106
                                                 112
4
                                              2a
                                        9
  lb           5b
           108                        8
                                6
                   104
          102
                       FIG 1
                           1/10

                                                -1
                                      TITLE OF THE INVENTION
                               Stepladder with Latch Stud and Method
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This application is a divisional child of                     which his hereby incorporated by
reference, in its entirety as originally filed.
[0001]            The present invention is related to a stepladder that may be securely placed in
an open position. (As used herein, references to the "present invention" or "invention" relate
to exemplary embodiments and not necessarily to every embodiment encompassed by the
appended claims.) More specifically, the present invention is related to a stepladder that may
be securely placed in an open position that has a first stud separate and apart from a cross bar
that a latch engages to lock the stepladder in the open position.
                                  BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]            This section is intended to introduce the reader to various aspects of the art
that may be related to various aspects of the present invention. The following discussion is
intended to provide information to facilitate a better understanding of the present invention.
Accordingly, it should be understood that statements in the following discussion are to be read
in this light, and not as admissions of prior art.
[0003]             It is desirable that a folding stepladder lock securely in the open in-use
position so as to prevent accidental folding and possible injury to the user. In addition, a
desirable latch design is one that is secure when latched, easily unlatched when the user
intends to fold the stepladder, and provides the user an indication that the latch is properly
engaged upon opening the stepladder for use.           An embodiment of the stepladder latch
described here may provide these desirable characteristics.

                                                -2
                                BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]            A first aspect of the present invention pertains to a stepladder.             The
stepladder comprises a front section having a first front leg and a second front leg.           The
stepladder comprises a step attached to the first front leg and the second front leg. The
stepladder comprises a latch engaged with the step. The stepladder comprises a rear section
having a first rear leg and a second rear leg and a cross bar attached to the first rear leg and
the second rear leg. The rear section is pivotably attached to the front section. The rear
section has a first stud which extends from the first rear leg toward the second rear leg and
separate and apart and not in contact with the second rear leg and not in contact with the
cross bar. The latch can engage with and latch to the first stud to define an engaged position
where the first front leg and the first rear leg are in an open position and form an inverted v
shape and are prevented from folding together, and the latch when pulled up from the
engaged position, can disengage from the first stud and can allow the front section and rear
section to fold together into a closed position where the first rear leg and the first front leg are
in parallel. The step includes a first side, a second side, a front and a rear, and including a first
step link attached to the first rear leg and the first side of the step; and a second step link
attached to the second rear leg and the second side of the step, the step links causing the rear
legs to move to a position parallel to the front legs when the stepladder is folded. The latch
includes a latch bar connected to and between a first latch end and a second latch end, the
latch bar configured to cause the first and second latch ends to move in unison.
[0005]            In the embodiment, the studs serve to attach the step links to the rear legs
and provide engagement points for the latch.
[0006]            In the embodiment, the rear section has a second stud which extends from
the second rear leg toward the first rear leg and is separate and apart and not in contact with
the first rear leg and the first stud and not in contact with the cross bar, and wherein the latch
has a first latch end that engages with the first stud and a second latch end that engages with
the second stud when the latch is in the engaged position.
[0007]            In the embodiment, the rear section has a second stud which extends from
the second rear leg toward the first rear leg and is separate and apart and not in contact with
the first rear leg and the first stud and not in contact with the cross bar. The latch includes a

                                                -3
latch bar connected to the first latch end and the second latch end which causes movement of
the first and second latch ends to occur in unison.
[0008]           In the embodiment, the latch is able to rotate until the latch bar contacts the
underside of the step.
[0009]           In the embodiment, the latch bar is disposed below the step when the latch is
in the engaged position.
[0010]           In the embodiment, the latch includes a restoring mechanism which moves
the first and second latch ends into engagement with the first and second studs, respectively,
from a disengaged position of the latch when the first and second latch ends do not engage
the first and second studs, respectively.
[0011]           In the embodiment, wherein the restoring mechanism includes a first spring
which can engage with the first latch end and a second spring which can engage with the
second latch end.
[00121           In the embodiment, wherein the step includes a first side, a second side, a
front and a rear, and including a first step link attached to the first rear leg and the first side of
the step; and a second step link attached to the second rear leg and the second side of the
step.
[0013]           In the embodiment, the cross bar supports the rear of the step when the latch
is in an engaged position.
[0014]           In the embodiment, each latch end has a cam portion, as the cam portion
contacts the respective stud when the rear of the step is moved downward, the cam portion
moves so that a hook portion of the latch end bypasses the respective stud until the hook
portion clears the respective stud, at which point the respective spring moves the hook
portion to engage the respective stud and place the latch into the engaged position.

                                              -4
[0015]            In the embodiment, the step includes a first stop disposed on the first side of
the step and a second stop disposed on the second side of the step which prevent the latch
from rotating beyond a desired position.
[0016]            In the embodiment, each hook portion of each latch is disposed beneath the
respective stud and held there by torque supplied by the respective spring.
[0017]            In the embodiment, the first stud does not support the step.
[0018]                    In the embodiment, the stepladder includes a latch pivot which
extends through a latch end and a boss on the step and about which the coil section of the
spring is positioned.
[0019]            Another aspect of the present invention pertains to a method of positioning a
stepladder. The method comprises the steps of pivoting a front section having a first front leg
and a second front leg relative to a rear section having a first rear leg and a second rear leg
and a cross bar attached to the first rear leg and the second rear leg to an open position. The
rear section has a first stud which extends from the first rear leg toward the second rear leg
and is separate and apart and not in contact with the second rear leg and not in contact with
the cross bar. There is the step of engaging a latch to the first stud to define an engaged
position where the first front leg and the first rear leg are in an open position and form an
inverted v shape and are prevented from folding together. The latch is engaged with a step
and the step is attached to the first front leg and the second front leg. There is the step of
pulling up on the latch from the engaged position to disengage the latch from the first stud.
There is the step of folding the front section and rear section together into a closed position
where the first rear leg and the first front leg are in parallel, the step includes a first side, a
second side, a front and a rear, and including a first step link attached to the first rear leg and
the first side of the step; and a second step link attached to the second rear leg and the
second side of the step, the step links causing the rear legs to move to a position parallel to
the front legs when the stepladder is folded. The latch includes a latch bar connected to and
between a first latch end and a second latch end, the latch bar configured to cause the first
and second latch ends to move in unison
[0020]            In an embodiment, the method includes the step of rotating the latch until a
latch bar contacts the underside of the step.

                                               -5
[0021]           In an embodiment, the method includes the steps of contacting the first stud
with a cam portion of a first latch end of the latch; moving the cam portion so that a hook
portion of the first latch end bypasses the first stud; and moving the hook portion to engage
the first stud and place the latch into the engaged position after the hook portion clears the
first stud.
[00221                    In an embodiment, the rear section has a second stud which extends
from the second rear leg toward the first rear leg and in separate and apart and not in contact
with the first rear leg and the first stud and not in contact with the cross bar, and the studs
serve to attach the step links to the rear legs and provide engagement points for the latch.
                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWING
[0023]           In the accompanying drawings, the             preferred embodiment and    other
embodiments and preferred methods and other methods are illustrated by way of example
only with reference to the accompanying non-limiting Figures, in which:
[0024]           Figure 1 is an overhead perspective view of the step ladder in an open
position.
[0025]           Figure 2 is an overhead perspective view of the step ladder in a closed
position.
[0026]           Figure 3 is an underside perspective view of the stepladder.
[0027]           Figure 4 is a side view of the step and latch end.
[0028]           Figure 5 shows a first front rail and a first rear rail.
[0029]           Figure 6 is a side view of the step and latch end.
[0030]           Figure 7 is a side view of the step and latch end.
[0031]           Figure 8 is a side view of the step and latch end.
[0032]           Figure 9 is a side view of the step and latch end.

                                                 -6
[0033]             Figure 10 shows the step and latch end.
[0034]             Figure 11 shows the step and latch end.
[0035]             Figure 12 shows the spring.
[0036]             Figure 13 shows the assembly of the latch end and step.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0037]             Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to similar
or identical parts throughout the several views, and more specifically to figures 1 and 2
thereof, there is shown a stepladder 100. The stepladder 100 comprises a front section 102
having a first front leg la and a second front leg 1b. The stepladder 100 comprises a step 3
attached to the first front leg la and the second front leg 1b. The stepladder 100 comprises a
latch 8 engaged with the step 3. The stepladder 100 comprises a rear section 104 having a
first rear leg 2a and a second rear leg 2b and a cross bar 6 attached to the first rear leg 2a and
the second rear leg 2b. The rear section 104 is pivotably attached to the front section 102.
The rear section 104 has a first stud 13a which extends from the first rear leg 2a toward the
second rear leg 2b and separate and apart and not in contact with the second rear leg 2b and
not in contact with the cross bar 6. The latch 8 is engaged with and latched to the first stud
13a to define an engaged position where the first front leg la and the first rear leg 2a are in an
open position and form an inverted v shape and are prevented from folding together, and the
latch 8 when pulled up from the engaged position, disengages from the first stud 13a and
allows the front section 102 and rear section 104 to fold together into a closed position where
the first rear leg 2a and the first front leg la are in parallel.
[0038]            The latch 8 may have a first latch end 10a that engages with the first stud 13a
and a second latch end 10b that engages with a second stud 13b when the latch 8 is in the
engaged position, as shown in figures 3 and 5. The rear section 104 may have a second stud
13b which extends from the second rear leg 2b toward the first rear leg 2a and is separate and
apart and not in contact with the first rear leg 2a and the first stud 13a and not in contact with
the cross bar 6. The latch 8 may include a latch bar 9 connected to the first latch end 10a and
the second latch end 10b which causes movement of the first and second latch ends 10a, 10b

                                                -7
to occur in unison. The latch bar 9 may be disposed below the step 3 when the latch 8 is in the
engaged position. The latch 8 may include a restoring mechanism which moves the first and
second latch end 10a, 10b which causes movement of the first and second latch ends 10a, 10b
to occur in unison. The latch bar 9 may be disposed below the step 3 when the latch 8 is in the
engaged position. The latch 8 may include a restoring mechanism which moves the first and
second latch ends 10a, 10b into engagement with the first and second studs 13a, 13b,
respectively, from a disengaged position of the latch 8 when the first and second latch ends
10a, 10b do not engage the first and second studs 13a, 13b, respectively. The restoring
mechanism may include a first spring 11a which engages with the first latch end 10a and a
second spring 11b which engages with the second latch end 10b.
[00391           The step 3 may include a first side 106, a second side 108, a front 110 and a
rear 112, and including a first step link 5a attached to the first rear leg 2a and the first side 106
of the step 3; and a second step link 5b attached to the second rear leg 2b and the second side
108 of the step 3. The crossbar may support the rear 112 of the step 3 when the latch 8 is in
an engaged position. Each latch end may have a cam portion 16, as shown in figure 8. As the
cam portion 16 contacts the respective stud when the rear 112 of the step 3 is moved
downward, the cam portion 16 moves so that a hook portion 14 of the latch end, shown in
figure 6, bypasses the respective stud until the hook portion 14 clears the respective stud, at
which point the respective spring moves the hook portion 14 to engage the respective stud
and place the latch 8 into the engaged position.
[0040]           The step 3 may include a first stop 12a disposed on the first side 106 of the
step 3 and a second stop 12b disposed on the second side 108 of the step 3, as shown in figure
3, which prevent the latch 8 from rotating beyond a desired position. Each hook portion 14 of
each latch 8 may be disposed beneath the respective stud and held there by torque supplied
by the respective spring. The first stud 13a may not support the step 3. The stepladder 100
may include a latch pivot 20 which extends through a latch end and a boss 120 on the step 3
and about which the coil section of the spring is positioned.
[0041]           An embodiment pertains to a method of positioning a stepladder 100. The
method comprises the steps of pivoting a front section 102 having a first front leg la and a
second front leg lb relative to a rear section 104 having a first rear leg 2a and a second rear
leg 2b and a cross bar 6 attached to the first rear leg 2a and the second rear leg 2b to an open

                                                -8
position. The rear section 104 has a first stud 13a which extends from the first rear leg 2a
toward the second rear leg 2b and is separate and apart and not in contact with the second
rear leg 2b and not in contact with the cross bar 6. There is the step of engaging a latch 8 to
the first stud 13a to define an engaged position where the first front leg la and the first rear
leg 2a are in an open position and form an inverted v shape and are prevented from folding
together. The latch 8 is engaged with a step 3 and the step 3 is attached to the first front leg
la and the second front leg 1b. There is the step of pulling up on the latch 8 from the engaged
position to disengage the latch 8 from the first stud 13a. There is the step of folding the front
section 102 and rear section 104 together into a closed position where the first rear leg 2a and
the first front leg la are in parallel.
[00421            There may be the steps of contacting the first stud 13a with a cam portion 16
of a first latch end 10a of the latch 8; moving the cam portion 16 so that a hook portion 14 of
the first latch end 10a bypasses the first stud 13a; and moving the hook portion 14 clockwise
to engage the first stud 13a and place the latch 8 into the engaged position after the hook
portion 14 clears the first stud 13a.
[0043]             In the operation of an embodiment, the following describes the design and
operation of the disclosed latch 8 as applied to the simplified single-step folding stepladder
seen in Figs 1, 2, and 3. It should be understood that this latch 8 design could also be applied
to folding stepladders having multiple steps.
[0044]             Figure 1 shows the stepladder in the open position. Front legs 1 are hinged to
the rear legs 2. A step 3 is attached to the front legs 1 by rivets 4 so that the step 3 can pivot
to a closed position seen in Figure 2. Step links 5 are pivotally connected to the step 3 and to
the rear legs 2. The step links cause the rear legs to move to a position parallel to the front
legs when the stepladder is folded.
[0045]            A cross bar 6 is rigidly attached to the rear legs 2. The cross bar 6 provides
added stiffness to the rear legs and supports the rear 112 of the step 3 when in the open
position by way of projections 7 on the underside of the step 3 which contact the cross bar 6.
This can be seen in Figure 6.
[0046]            A symmetric latch 8 is pivotally attached to the sides of the step 3. The latch 8
consists of a latch bar 9 and two latch ends 10.        This is seen in Figure 3.   Springs 11 are

                                                -9
symmetrically mounted at both ends of the latch 8 in such a way as to apply a torque to the
latch 8. The torque is in a CW direction when seen in Figure 4, which is a view with the rear
legs, etc, removed for clarity. Stops 12 on both sides of the step 3 (Figs 3 & 4) prevent the
latch 8 from rotating CW beyond the position shown in Figure 4.
[0047]           Additional details of the springs 11 and their mounting can be seen in Figure
11. In this Figure the rear legs and step link are not shown. The springs 11 consists of a coiled
section 17 and two ends and is similar to the torsion spring of a common clothes pin. (Figure
12 shows the spring in its relaxed state.) The coiled section 17 is installed concentric with the
latch pivot 20. The fixed end 18 is hooked into a hole 122 in the step 3 and the moving end 19
is hooked over the latch end 10. By comparing Figure 6 and Figure 7 it can be seen that when
the latch 8 is moved toward the unlatched position, the fixed end 18 does not move but the
moving end 19 moves with the latch 8 and biases the latch back toward the latched position.
The latch pivot 20 is a rivet which extends through a latch end 10 and a boss 120 on the step 3
and about which the coil section 17 of the spring 11 is positioned."
[0048]           Two studs 13 (seen in Figs 2, 3, & 5) serve to attach the step links 5 to the rear
legs 2 and provide engagement points for the latch 8. In Figure 5 the step 3 has been removed
to show one stud 13 more clearly. The studs 13 do not support the step 3 in any way.
[0049]           Note, Figs 6, 7, 8, & 9 are phantom views with components shown "wireform".
These views show the right side of the stepladder but it should be understood that the
stepladder and all its latch components are symmetric about the center plane.
[0050]           Figure 6 shows the stepladder when fully opened and the latch 8 in the fully
engaged position. The hook 14 portion of the latch end 10 is beneath the stud 13 and held
there by the torque supplied by the spring 11. In this position the latch positively prevents the
stepladder from folding. Figure 10 is a closeup of the right side latch components as seen
from the rear 112 when the latch is fully engaged.
[0051]           Figure 7 shows how the latch 8 is disengaged from the stud 13 in order to fold
the stepladder. The user reaches under the rear 112 of the step 3 and lifts up on the latch bar
9 of the latch 8. The latch 8 will rotate against spring 11 torque until the latch bar 9 contacts
the underside 15 of the step 3.       By that time the hook 14 portion of the latch end 10 has

                                               - 10
disengaged from the stud 13. The user can then lift up the rear 112 of the step 3 to fold the
stepladder. Once the rear 112 of the step 3 has risen a short distance the user may allow the
latch 8 to return to the position seen in Figs 3 & 4.
[0052]           To move the stepladder to its open and latched position the user pushes the
rear edge of the step 3 rearward and downward.        Figure 8 shows the cam 16 portion of the
latch 8 as it contacts the stud 13. Continued downward motion of the rear edge of the step 3
causes the latch 8 to rotate CCW (as viewed) so that its hook 14 portion is able to bypass the
stud 13 as seen in Figure 9. As seen in Figure 6, when the projections 7 on the step 3 contact
the cross bar 6, the latch 8 returns under spring 11 torque to its fully engaged position. The
user is assured that the latch is engaged by hearing and feeling it snap into its engaged
position.
[0053]           Although the invention has been described in detail in the foregoing
embodiments for the purpose of illustration, it is to be understood that such detail is solely for
that purpose and that variations can be made therein by those skilled in the art without
departing from the spirit and scope of the invention except as it may be described by the
following claims.
[0054]            In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in
an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[0055]            It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

                                                - 11
                     THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
                   1. A stepladder comprising:
                  a front section having a first front leg and a second front leg;
                  a step attached to the first front leg and the second front leg;
                  a latch engaged with the step; and
                  a rear section having a first rear leg and a second rear leg and a cross bar
attached to the first rear leg and the second rear leg, wherein the rear section is pivotably
attached to the front section, wherein the rear section has a first stud which extends from the
first rear leg toward the second rear leg and separate and apart and not in contact with the
second rear leg and not in contact with the cross bar, wherein the latch can engage with and
latch to the first stud to define an engaged position where the first front leg and the first rear
leg are in an open position and form an inverted v shape and are prevented from folding
together, and the latch when pulled up from the engaged position, can disengage from the
first stud and can allow the front section and rear section to fold together into a closed
position where the first rear leg and the first front leg are in parallel, wherein the step includes
a first side, a second side, a front and a rear, and including a first step link attached to the first
rear leg and the first side of the step; and a second step link attached to the second rear leg
and the second side of the step, the step links causing the rear legs to move to a position
parallel to the front legs when the stepladder is folded, and wherein the latch includes a latch
bar connected to and between a first latch end and a second latch end, the latch bar
configured to cause the first and second latch ends to move in unison.
                  2.       The stepladder of claim 1 wherein the studs serve to attach the step
links to the rear legs and provide engagement points for the latch.
                  3. The stepladder of claim 1 or 2 wherein the rear section has a second stud
which extends from the second rear leg toward the first rear leg and is separate and apart and
not in contact with the first rear leg and the first stud and not in contact with the cross bar,
and wherein the latch has a first latch end that engages with the first stud and a second latch
end that engages with the second stud when the latch is in the engaged position.
                  4. The stepladder of claim 1 or 2 wherein the rear section has a second stud
which extends from the second rear leg toward the first rear leg and is separate and apart and
not in contact with the first rear leg and the first stud and not in contact with the cross bar.

                                             - 12
                 5. The stepladder of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the latch is able to rotate
until the latch bar contacts the underside of the step.
                 6. The stepladder of claim 5 wherein the latch bar is disposed below the step
when the latch is in the engaged position.
                 7.   The stepladder of claim 5 or 6 wherein the latch includes a restoring
mechanism which moves the first and second latch ends into engagement with the first and
second studs, respectively, from a disengaged position of the latch when the first and second
latch ends do not engage the first and second studs, respectively.
                 8. The stepladder of claim 7 wherein the restoring mechanism includes a first
spring which can engage with the first latch end and a second spring which can engage with
the second latch end.
                 9. The stepladder of claim 6 wherein the cross bar supports the rear of the
step when the latch is in an engaged position.
                 10. The stepladder of claim 8 or 9 wherein each latch end has a cam portion,
as the cam portion contacts the respective stud when the rear of the step is moved
downward, the cam portion moves so that a hook portion of the latch end bypasses the
respective stud until the hook portion clears the respective stud, at which point the respective
spring moves the hook portion to engage the respective stud and place the latch into the
engaged position.
                 11. The stepladder of claim 10 wherein the step includes a first stop disposed
on the first side of the step and a second stop disposed on the second side of the step which
prevent the latch from rotating beyond a desired position.
                 12. The stepladder of claim 11 wherein each hook portion of each latch is
disposed beneath the respective stud and held there by torque supplied by the respective
spring.
                 13. The stepladder of claim 12 wherein the first stud does not support the
step.
                 14. The stepladder of claim 13 including a latch pivot which extends through a
latch end and a boss on the step and about which the coil section of the spring is positioned.

                                               - 13
                  15. A method of positioning a stepladder comprising the steps of:
                  pivoting a front section having a first front leg and a second front leg relative
to a rear section having a first rear leg and a second rear leg and a cross bar attached to the
first rear leg and the second rear leg to an open position, the rear section having a first stud
which extends from the first rear leg toward the second rear leg and separate and apart and
not in contact with the second rear leg and not in contact with the cross bar;
                  engaging a latch to the first stud to define an engaged position where the first
front leg and the first rear leg are in an open position and form an inverted v shape and are
prevented from folding together, the latch engaged with a step and the step attached to the
first front leg and the second front leg;
                  pulling up on the latch from the engaged position to disengage the latch from
the first stud; and
                  folding the front section and rear section together into a closed position
where the first rear leg and the first front leg are in parallel, the step includes a first side, a
second side, a front and a rear, and including a first step link attached to the first rear leg and
the first side of the step; and a second step link attached to the second rear leg and the
second side of the step, the step links causing the rear legs to move to a position parallel to
the front legs when the stepladder is folded, wherein the latch includes a latch bar connected
to and between a first latch end and a second latch end, the latch bar configured to cause the
first and second latch ends to move in unison.
                  16. The method of claim 15 including the step of rotating the latch until a latch
bar contacts the underside of the step.
                  17. The method of claim 15 or 16 including the steps of contacting the first
stud with a cam portion of a first latch end of the latch;
                  moving the cam portion so that a hook portion of the first latch end bypasses
the first stud; and
                  moving the hook portion to engage the first stud and place the latch into the
engaged position after the hook portion clears the first stud.
                  18.     The method of any one of claims 15 to 17 wherein the rear section has
a second stud which extends from the second rear leg toward the first rear leg and in separate
and apart and not in contact with the first rear leg and the first stud and not in contact with
the cross bar, and the studs serve to attach the step links to the rear legs and provide
engagement points for the latch.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
