TETHER CLAMP AND IMPLANTATION SYSTEM
ABSTRACT
A clamp housing assembly and method for providing stabilization as a bone anchor during an
operation. The assembly includes a housing (10), a locking element and a band (28). The
housing defines a longitudinal axis (LA), a center recess, and at least one slot (22). The housing
has two opposing arms (14, 16) extending from a base (17). At least a portion of the inside
surface of each arm (14, 16) may be threaded and at least a portion of the outside surface of each
arm (14, 16) may be planar. The locking element is positionable within the recess in a co-axial
relationship to the housing. The band (28) is sized for travel along a predetermined path defined
in part by the at least one slot (22) in the housing (10).

                                                   1
TETHER CLAMP AND IMPLANTATION SYSTEM
Cross-Reference to Related Application
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015258312 which,
in turn, is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2012308347, the entire
contents of each of which being incorporated herein by reference. This application claims the
benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/534,453, entitled TETHER
CLAMP AND IMPLANTATION SYSTEM and filed September 14, 2011, and United States
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/595,296, entitled TETHER CLAMP AND
IMPLANTATION SYSTEM and filed February 6, 2012, the entire disclosure of each being
incorporated herein by reference, to the extent that either is not conflicting with the present
application.
Background
[0002] The human skeleton is formed of bones, each bone performing a structural role, either
individually or collectively with other bones. For example, the spine is made up of
approximately 24 vertebrae, each composed of several portions, which act as a whole to
surround and protect the spinal cord and nerves, provide structure to the body and enable fluid
body motion in many planes. The vertebrae are normally aligned along an axis, with each
vertebra presenting a posterior wall from which projects a spinous process and two side edges
having walls from which project the ribs and/or transverse processes.
[0003] An individual's spine may be damaged or otherwise compromised in one of many ways.
A spine may present an abnormal curvature, such as for example, vertebrae inclined and rotated
relative to one another and relative to the vertebral axis. In such a curvature, the lateral edges of
the vertebrae situated on one side are closer to one another and form a concave curve, while the
lateral edges on the other side are spaced apart from one another and form a convex curve. This
condition can result in subsequent and serious conditions, such as for example, abnormalities of
the cardiac, pulmonary, neuromuscular and gastrointestinal systems.
[0004] An individual's spine may also be damaged by one or more fractured vertebrae. Spine
osteosynthesis, the reduction (bringing together) and fixation of a bone fracture with implantable
devices, is a known treatment of a spinal fracture. Specifically, osteosynthesis is a surgical

                                                  2
procedure with an open or percutaneous approach to the fractured bone, which aims to bring the
fractured bone ends together and immobilize the fracture site while healing takes place.
[0005] To correct these and other conditions, conventional procedures have been developed
using mechanical implants to straighten or otherwise hold successive vertebrae in a fixed
position. To keep the vertebrae in the desired relative position, hardware, such as a screw, is
inserted into the vertebrae. The screws include tulip heads and act as an anchoring point for a
connecting member between vertebrae, such as a straight surgical rod.
[0006] The use of screws introduces risk into the surgical procedure and may cause additional
damage to the vertebrae. Spinal clamps have been developed that provide additional anchor
points along the spine when the use of a screw is not possible or not optimal. Known exemplary
spinal clamps introduce further risk and complexity into the surgery, including installation
complexity, inadequate size offerings and additional parts.
[0007] Similar risk and complexity exist in orthopedic surgery in other areas of the body
adjacent or remote from the spine.
Object of the Invention
[0008] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the above disadvantages, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
Summary
[0009] The present application describes various exemplary methods and apparatus for a spinal
clamp, specifically, a tether clamp installation system.
[0010] In an aspect, there is provided a clamp assembly for providing stabilization as a bone
anchor, the assembly comprising:
        a housing defining a longitudinal axis, a recess, and at least one first slot disposed at the
bottom surface of the housing, the housing having two opposing arms extending from a base;
        a locking element positionable within the recess in a co-axial relationship to a mating
surface on the housing, and

                                                   3
         a band sized for travel along a predetermined path defined in part by the at least one first
slot in the housing and at least one other slot in the housing.
[0011] ] In an embodiment, a spinal clamp assembly includes a clamp housing, a locking
element, and a band. The clamp housing may be a one piece base, have no moving parts, and
defines at least one slot for passage of the band. The housing is adapted to receive a surgical rod
without the use of a retaining clip or other hardware beyond the locking element. The locking
element may be positioned co-axial with the housing. During installation, the band is tightened
around a vertebra and tensioned into a tightened position by a tensioning instrument.
[0012] In another embodiment, a spinal clamp system includes a spinal clamp assembly, locking
and tensioning tools, and a tensioning instrument. The tensioning instrument has a distal end
which engages the spinal clamp assembly. The tensioning instrument further defines at least
one slot which allows movement of a carriage between a non-tightened position and a tightened
position, permitting a surgeon to tighten the band. A longitudinal cylinder of the tightening
instrument permits the insertion of various tools, e.g., to restrict movement of the vertebral
structure relative to the implant rod.
[0013] An embodiment of a method of implanting a spinal clamp assembly along at least two
vertebrae includes: providing a spinal clamp assembly including a clamp housing, a locking
element, a band, and a surgical rod; positioning the housing along the rod at a desired location
adjacent a vertebra; wrapping a band about a lamina and through the housing; inserting the
locking element within the housing to capture the rod; provisionally locking the locking
element; engaging a tensioning instrument with the spinal clamp assembly; inserting the band
through a carriage of the tensioning instrument; moving the carriage to a tightened position to
secure the band; and locking the locking element.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0014] Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0015] Figure la is a front perspective view of a spinal clamp housing;
[0016] Figure lb is a side perspective view of the housing of Figure la;

                                                 4
[0017] Figure Ic is a front view of a band wrapped about the housing of Figure la;
[0018] Figure I d is a bottom perspective view of the housing of Figure l a;
[0019] Figure 1e is a front cross-sectional view of a band engaged with the housing of Figure
1d;
[0020] Figure 2 is a front perspective view of a spinal rod positioned within the housing and
band assembly of Figure Ic;
[0021] Figure 3 is a front cross-sectional view of a set screw positioned within the housing of
Figure la, shown without a rod or band;
[0022] Figure 4 is a top perspective view of a locking element of Figure 3;
[0023] Figure 5a is a perspective view of a provisional locking tool engaged with a rod and
spinal clamp assembly, shown without a band;
[0024] Figure 5b is an enlarged perspective view of the designated circular area of Figure 5a;
[0025] Figure 5c is a perspective view of the provisional locking tool of Figure 5a;
[0026] Figure 6a is a front view of a tensioning instrument;
[0027] Figure 6b is a rear view of the tensioning instrument of Figure 6a;
[0028] Figure 7a is a front perspective view of the tensioning instrument of Figure 6a, shown
engaged with the rod and spinal clamp assembly of Figure 5a;
[0029] Figure 7b is an enlarged perspective view of the designated circular area of Figure 7a;
[0030] Figure 7c is a front cross-sectional view of Figure 7a, shown without a tightening rod;
[0031] Figure 7d is an enlarged perspective view of the designated circular area of Figure 7c;

                                                 5
[0032] Figure 7e is a perspective cross-sectional view of a center portion of the tensioning
instrument of Figure 7a;
[0033] Figure 7f is an enlarged perspective view of a bearing ring of the tensioning instrument
of Figure 7a;
[0034] Figure 7g is a front perspective view of a tightening rod of the tensioning instrument of
Figure 7a;
[0035] Figure 8 is a perspective view of Figure 7a, shown with the band routed through a
carriage of the tensioning instrument, with the carriage in a non-tightened position;
[0036] Figure 9a is an enlarged perspective view of the carriage of Figure 8;
[0037] Figure 9b is a front cross-sectional view of the carriage of Figure 9a;
[0038] Figure 1Oa is a perspective view of Figure 8, shown with the carriage in a tightened
position;
[0039] Figure 10b is perspective view of a tightening tool of Figure 10a;
[0040] Figure 11 a is a perspective view of Figure l0a, shown with the carriage in a tightened
position and a screwdriver tool inserted within the tensioning instrument;
[0041] Figure 11 b is an enlarged cross-sectional view of the screwdriver tool engaging the set
screw;
[0042] Figure 11 c is a side view of the screwdriver tool of Figure l la;
[0043] Figure 12 is a front perspective view of another spinal clamp housing;
[0044] Figure 13 is a bottom perspective view of the spinal clamp housing of Figure 12;
[0045] Figure 14 is a front sectional view of the spinal housing of Figure 13, show with a pin
and band installed in the housing;

                                                  6
[0046] Figure 15 is a front view of a tensioning instrument;
[0047] Figure 16 is a front sectional view of the tensioning instrument of Figure 15;
[0048] Figure 17 is front view of a tightening rod of the tensioning instrument of Figure 15;
[0049] Figure 18 is a perspective view of a bearing ring of the tensioning instrument of Figure
15;
[0050] Figure 19 is a front cross-sectional view of the carriage of Figure 15;
[0051] Figure 20 is a cross-sectional view of a center portion of the tensioning instrument of
Figure 15;
[0052] Figure 21 is a cross-sectional view of a center portion of the tensioning instrument of
Figure 15, shown with the tightening rod installed and the carriage in a non-tightened position;
[0053] Figure 22 is a cross-sectional view of a top portion of the tensioning instrument of
Figure 15, shown with the tightening rod installed;
[0054] Figure 23 is a cross-sectional view of a top portion of the tensioning instrument of
Figure 15, shown with the screwdriver tool installed;
[0055] Figure 24a is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a dual
tether band assembly;
[0056] Figure 24b is a perspective view of the assembly of Figure 24a, shown with a part of the
dual tether band split into two individual bands;
[0057] Figure 25 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a tether
band/pedicle screw assembly;
[0058] Figure 26 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a tether
band/cross-connector assembly;

                                                 7
[0059] Figure 27a is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a
tether band/hook assembly with the hook and the band in an opposite orientation;
[0060] Figure 27b is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a
tether band/hook assembly;
[0061] Figure 28 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a two
housing assembly and a transverse tether band;
[0062] Figure 29 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing the
installation of a tether band/pedicle screw assembly acting as a reduction device;
[0063] Figure 30 is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing
another tether/band/pedicle screw assembly;
[0064] Figure 31 a is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing a
tether band/rod/hook assembly;
[0065] Figure 3 1b is a perspective view of another embodiment of the invention, showing
another tether band/rod/hook assembly; and
[0066] Figure 32 is a front view of a tether band/pedicle screw assembly as used in a reduction
process.
Detailed Description
[0067] This Detailed Description merely describes exemplary embodiments in accordance with
the general inventive concepts and is not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way.
Indeed, the invention as described in the specification is broader than and unlimited by the
exemplary embodiments set forth herein, and the terms used herein have their full ordinary
meaning.
[0068] The general inventive concepts will now be described with occasional reference to the
exemplary embodiments of the invention. This general inventive concept may, however, be
embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth
herein. Rather, these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and

                                                  8
complete, and will fully convey the scope of the general inventive concepts to those skilled in
the art.
[0069] Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art encompassing the general
inventive concepts. The terminology set forth in this detailed description is for describing
particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the general inventive concepts.
As used in this detailed description and the appended claims, the singular forms a, "an," and
"the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise.
[0070] Unless otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients, properties
such as molecular weight, reaction conditions, and so forth as used in the specification and
claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term "about." Accordingly,
unless otherwise indicated, the numerical properties set forth in the specification and claims are
approximations that may vary depending on the suitable properties sought to be obtained in
embodiments of the present invention. Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and
parameters setting forth the broad scope of the general inventive concepts are approximations,
the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any
numerical values, however, inherently contain certain errors necessarily resulting from error
found in their respective measurements.
[0071] The invention is directed a tether clamp and implantation system for use in orthopedic
surgery. The system provides a temporary implant intended to provide temporary stabilization as
a bone anchor during the development of solid bony fusion and aid in the repair of bone
fractures. Exemplary indications for use include, but are not limited to, the following
applications:
         1. Spinal trauma surgery, used in sub-laminar, interspinous, or facet wiring
         techniques.
         2. Spinal reconstructive surgery, incorporated into constructs for the purpose of
         correction of spinal deformities such as scoliosis, kyphosis, spondylolisthesis.
         3. Spinal degenerative surgery, as an adjunct to spinal fusions.
         4. Treatment of idiopathic and neuromuscular scoliosis in patients eight years of age and
         older.

                                                    9
The inventive system may also be used in conjunction with other medical implants made of
metal, for example, titanium alloy or cobalt chromium alloy, whenever "wiring" may help
secure the attachment of other implants.
[0072] An embodiment of the invention which will now be discussed is a spinal clamp implant.
The spinal implant is used to aid in fusion and stabilization in one or more vertebrae during a
posterior access surgery. The spinal clamp can be used with one or more similar spinal clamps
to provide anchoring points for a surgical rod. The spinal clamp can further be used with
conventional screw and tulip head implants. For example, the spinal clamp may be secured to
third lumbar vertebra L3, while conventional screw and tulip head implants are secured to the
second lumbar vertebra L2 and the fourth lumbar vertebra L4. When discussing the spinal clamp
and implantation of the spinal clamp, the terms "proximal" and "distal" are used relative to the
surgeon, and not the operating field, i.e., not relative the patient.
[0073] An embodiment of this invention was discussed in United States Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 61/534,453, entitled TETHER CLAMP AND IMPLANTATION
SYSTEM and filed September 14, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
[0074] Referring now to the drawings, a spinal clamp housing 10 is shown in Figures la and lb.
The housing is adapted for placement at a desired implantation point adjacent to a vertebra. The
housing 10 may be constructed of suitable material, such as for example, stainless steel, cobalt
chromium, or titanium.
[0075] The housing is generally cylindrical shaped and defines a longitudinal axis LA (best seen
in Figure 3). More specifically, the housing includes a center recess 12 defined by opposing
arms 14, 16 extending from a base 17. An internal surface of the arms 14, 16 include a mating
engagement surface, such as for example, a threaded surface 18. The threaded surface mates
with a locking element, such as for example, a set screw, a blocking nut, or a blocker. An
exterior of the exemplary arms 14, 16 include a flat surface 20. A tightening instrument engages
the flat surface 20 to prevent housing 10 rotation while the set screw is rotated into a locked
position. This operation will be discussed in further detail. It should be apparent to one with skill
in the art that other styles, types, and sizes of surfaces for locking elements and tensioning
instrument mating can be used in the practice of this invention.

                                                   10
[0076] The housing 10 includes structural features to permit a band to be wrapped securely
about the housing. A first slot 22 is located at the bottom of the recess 12 and defines a passage
for a band along a longitudinal axis of the housing. The first slot may allow use by a surgeon as
a starting point for band travel within and in the vicinity of the housing 10. For example, a knot
may be tied at the beginning of the band to prohibit one end of the band from entering the slot
and passing through to the bottom side of the housing, or one end of the band may include a clip
larger in size than the slot 22. A second slot 24 and a third slot 26 are formed in opposing
positions on either side of the housing 10. These slots 24, 26 may permit band travel
perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the housing 10. An exemplary travel path of a band 28
is illustrated in Figure Ic. The band 28 is illustrated in an exemplary pattern, for example, routed
in a pattern around a lamina (not shown).
[0077] The housing 10 further includes apertures 32. These apertures may be used by a surgeon
for various purposes, such as for example, grasping the housing 10 during implantation, or
insertion of a pin for a structural anchor for another assembly piece, such as for example, the
tether band.
[0078] Structural features of the bottom of the spinal clamp housing are best seen in Figure I d.
In this embodiment, the housing 1Oa includes two slots 22a, 22b, separated by a bridge 23, at the
bottom of the housing recess. The slots 22a, 22b may allow use by a surgeon as a starting point
for band travel within and in the vicinity of the housing 1Oa. For example, a first end of the band
28 may be routed through both slots as shown in Figure le, and secured to a distal location 29 of
the band, to secure the band to the housing 10a. In the exemplary embodiment, the band is
integral to the housing and secured prior to surgery, for example, during surgery preparation or
by a manufacturer. In other embodiments, the surgeon may attach the first end of the band at the
distal location 29 by one of several methods, including sewing the first end to the band. It
should be understood by those with ordinary skill in the art that the number of slots used to
secure the band, if any, as well as the shape and location of the slots, may vary in the practice of
this invention.
[0079] Another embodiment of the invention includes a housing having different structural
features. Specifically, the housing 210 illustrated in Figures 12-14 includes a single aperture 122
at the bottom of housing. The aperture as shown is a rectangular shaped slot. It may be of any
suitable shape, width and length. As shown, the single slot 122 is wider than the double slots
22a, 22b shown in the housing 10 of Figure I d.

                                                  11
[0080] The base of the housing 210 is absent any apertures oriented perpendicular to a position
of an installed surgical rod. The housing 210 does include two holes 132 for supporting a pin
123 as seen in Figure 14. The holes are positioned co-axial with an installed position of a
surgical rod. The end of the band is fixed to provide a loop for slipping over the pin, or the band
may be fixed to the pin. As shown, a loop and the end of a tether band 128 is formed by fixing
two band lengths 130a, 130b.
[0081] Referring now to Figure 2, a surgical rod 34 placed within the recess 12 of the housing is
shown. The housing is concave-shaped to accept and laterally retain the rod 34 within the arms
14, 16. The weight of the rod 34 applies a force to pinch a portion of the band 28 against the
housing 10.
[0082] During implantation, the next step is to provisionally lock the rod in place with use of a
set screw. A set screw 36 is shown engaged with a housing 10 in Figure 3. The rod 34 and band
28 are not shown for clarity. As shown in Figures 3 and 4, the set screw 36 has a threaded
external circumferential surface 38 which engages the internal threaded surface 18 of the arms
14, 16. A top surface 40 of the set screw 36 includes a cut-out recess 42. The recess 42 is shaped
to accept locking tools.
[0083] Figures 5a and 5b illustrate a provisional locking tool 50 engaged with a set screw 36. In
the implantation of the spinal clamp, a surgeon uses the provisional locking tool 50 to tighten
the set screw enough to temporarily contain the rod 34. The set screw must not be locked in
place until the band is sufficiently tightened about the target lamina. In a further surgical step,
the set screw 36 is locked in a final position.
[0084] As shown in Figure 5c, the provisional locking tool 50 includes an instrument rod 52 and
palm handle 54. The palm handle 54 may be separable from the instrument rod 52. The system
may include multiple tools, each with specifically shaped instrument rods. For example, the
instrument rod 52 includes a constant diameter shaft terminating in a socket head 56 sized to
mate with the recess 42 of the set screw 36.
[0085] The spinal clamp installation system includes a tensioning instrument for use by a
surgeon to tighten a band and securing the vertebral structure relative to the implant rod. The
installation system is arranged for user ease of installation. As shown in the Figures, e.g.,
Figures 3 and 7d, the housing 10, set screw 36 and tensioning instrument 60 are all positionable

                                                  12
about a common longitudinal axis LA. Any tools used in the installation, either prior to the
engagement of the tensioning instrument, or inserted within the internal channel of the
tensioning instrument from a proximal end to a distal end, are also positioned along the same
common axis. This arrangement also promotes increased user flexibility, e.g., the user may
easily incrementally tighten a band of a spinal clamp assembly, then by retract a tool from the
set screw and then disengaging the tensioning instrument from the housing, move to the next
sequential spinal clamp assembly along the surgical rod, and make a similar incremental
adjustment.
[0086] Figures 6a and 6b illustrate front and rear views of a tensioning instrument 60. The
instrument includes an elongated cylinder 62. The cylinder permits the insertion of tools from a
proximal end 64 to a distal end 65 to manipulate the set screw 36, and further contains a hollow
tightening rod 66. The tightening rod 66 is used by the surgeon to secure the band 28 in a final
position.
[0087] The cylinder 62 is adapted for securing the spinal clamp in a final position relative the
target vertebra. Figures 7a-7d illustrate various views of the tensioning instrument 60 engaged
with a spinal rod. The cylinder 62 includes projections 68 at the distal end 65. An arched section
63a between two adjacent projections engage a top surface of the rod 34 (see Figure 7b). A flat
portion 63b between other adjacent projections engage the flat portions 20 on the exterior of the
housing 10, to prohibit movement of the housing. The cylinder further defines two opposing
slots 70, 72. The slots permit travel of a carriage 74 within the slot, at least partially between a
distal end 70a (see Figure 7a) and proximal end 70b (see Figure 10a). Two protruding tabs 76,
78 ride within the slots during movement of the carriage. The mechanics of this movement will
be discussed in further detail.
[0088] The tensioning instrument is structured to tighten the band 28 to secure the housing 10 to
the rod 34. As best seen in Figure 7e, the cylinder 62 includes an interior surface 80 defining a
hollow chamber. Within the proximal portion of the chamber, the tightening rod 66 mates with
internal threads of the cylinder. The tightening rod 66 is illustrated in Figure 7g and includes a
knob 82, threaded portion 84, and a distal, non-threaded portion 86. The distal position 86
includes holes 88 for engagement by set screws (not shown) which secure a retaining ring 90
(see Figure 7e). The retaining ring 90 moves axially within the cylinder as the tightening rod 66
is manipulated by the surgeon.

                                                   13
[0089] A bearing ring 92 is disposed to the proximal side of the retaining ring 90, as best shown
in Figure 7e. Further as shown in Figure 7f, the two tabs 76, 78 radially protrude from opposing
sides of the bearing ring 92. A center aperture 94 permits passing of the distal portion 86 of the
tightening rod 66. A top surface 96 of the bearing ring 92 may engage a shoulder 98 of the
tightening rod to limit entry of the rod into the cylinder in a distal direction.
[0090] The bearing ring 92 is adapted for connection to the carriage 74. As shown in Figure 7e,
a wing 98 extends radially from a base of the bearing ring into the carriage 74, which is
constructed from two pieces 74a, 74b (see Figure 9a). The carriage may be constructed of a
suitable material, such as for example, plastic or metal, and include two snap-fit pieces that
enclose the wing 98. A carriage half 74a is illustrated in Figure 7e and includes a spur 100
which is biased in a direction toward the cylinder 62 by a torsion spring 102. The spur 100 is
operated by a handle 103 (see Figure 9a) to permit threading of the band 28 in a proximal
direction through a channel 104 in the carriage 74. Teeth on the spur 100 prohibit return
movement of the band in the distal direction.
[0091] Figure 8 shows the band 28 inserted through the carriage 74 and properly positioned for
use of the tensioning instrument. The carriage is in a non-tightened position in Figure 8. Front
perspective and cross-sectional views of the carriage 74 are shown in Figures 9a and 9b,
respectively, with the band 28 in an inserted position. As shown in Figure 9b, teeth on the spur
100 press the band 28 against the wall of the channel 104.
[0092] As previously discussed, a surgeon may secure the housing 10 in place relative to the
targeted vertebra by manipulation of the tightening rod 66. Referring now to Figure 1Oa, a
tightening tool 110 is shown engaged with the knob 82 of the tightening rod 66. As shown, the
rod 66 has been turned and axially moved in a proximal direction away from the housing 10. As
such, the carriage has moved axially along the exterior of the cylinder 62, and within the range
between the slot 70 distal end 70a and proximal end 70b, at the discretion of the surgeon. As the
carriage moves proximally, the band 28 is tensioned in a proximal direction securing the
vertebral structure relative to the implant rod. The carriage is in a tightened position in Figure
1Oa.
[0093] Figure 10b is perspective view of the tightening tool 110 of Figure 10a. The tightening
tool includes a palm handle 54 and an instrument shaft 112, which terminates at a head 114 for
engaging a recess in the knob 82. As previously discussed in regard to other tools, the palm

                                                  14
handle 54 may separate from the instrument shaft 112 so that a single handle can accommodate
multiple shafts for multiple purposes during implantation.
[0094] After the band 28 is sufficiently tensioned, the surgeon may lock the set screw 36 into a
desired and final position. Figures 11 a-1Ic detail aspects of this locking process. In Figure 1 la,
a perspective view of Figure 10a is shown with the carriage in a tightened position, the
tightening tool 110 removed, and a screwdriver tool 120 inserted within the tensioning
instrument 60. An enlarged cross-sectional view of the head 56 of the screwdriver tool 120
engaged with the set screw 36 is shown in Figure 1 lb. In this position, the surgeon may tighten
the set screw as desired by turning the tool 120.
[0095] Figure 1 Ic is perspective view of the screwdriver tool 120. The tool includes a palm
handle 54 and an instrument shaft 122, which terminates at a head 56 for engaging the recess 42
in the set screw. As previously discussed in regard to other tools, the palm handle may separate
from the instrument shaft. The exemplary shaft 122 shown includes a shoulder 124 to
accommodate the internal dimensions of the cylinder 62 and tightening rod 66.
[0096] Another embodiment on the tensioning instrument will now be discussed. The tensioning
instrument 160 and related parts are illustrated in Figures 15-23. The tensioning instrument 160
has similar features as the discussed embodiment of Figures 5a-1 lb. However, the tensioning
instrument 160 includes structural differences of certain components related to tensioning. The
embodiment discussed is exemplary only, and other structural difference of the same or different
components can be utilized in the practice of the invention.
[0097] Figures 15 and 16 illustrate front and sectional views, respectively, of a tensioning
instrument. The tensioning rod 166 is fixed by one or more pins and moves only axially upon
rotation. In other words, the tensioning rod does not translate along the longitudinal axis of the
tensioning instrument. As seen in Figure 16, 17 and 18, the inside of the bearing ring is
threaded, and no retaining ring or set screws are included in the assembly as in other
embodiments. The cross-sectional view of Figure 21 shows detail of the tensioning rod, bearing
ring and carriage assembly.
[0098] Referring specifically now to Figure 15, a front view of a tensioning instrument 160 is
illustrated. The tensioning instrument includes a hollow cylinder 162. As best shown in the
sectional view of Figure 16, the cylinder has a smooth internal surface 162 without female

                                                  15
threads. With the internal surface being smooth, the threaded portion 184 of the tightening rod
166 does not engage the inside surface of the hollow cylinder 162. As shown in Figure 16-18
and 21, the tightening rod 166 engages a bearing ring 192. Specifically, a threaded surface 184
of the tightening rod engages an inside threaded surface 195 of the bearing ring 192.
[0099] The bearing ring 192 is adapted for connection to the carriage 174. As shown in Figure
18, a wing 198 extends radially from a base of the bearing ring. The wing extends into the
carriage 174 as in a previously discussed embodiment. Two tabs 176, 178 are oval in shape and
ride with a slot 170 on either side of the tensioning instrument 160 as the carriage travels from a
lower non-tensioned position to a higher tensioned position, as previously discussed.
[0100] The carriage advantageously "auto-locks" in operation, prohibiting disengagement of the
band in the distal direction, but allowing for easy slack removal by pulling in the proximal
direction.
[0101] 174 illustrated in Figures 16 and 19 includes a lever 200 which is biased in a direction
toward the cylinder 162 by a torsion spring 202. The lever 200 is operated by a handle 199 to
permit threading of a tether band in a proximal direction through a channel 204 in the carriage
174. Teeth 200 on the lever 197 prohibit return movement of the band in the distal direction.
[0102] The invention can be utilized in various applications and techniques. Several other
embodiments of the invention and methods of use as illustrated in Figures 24a-32. A dual
housing assembly is illustrated in Figures 24a-24b. The figures illustrate two housings 210a,
210b with a dual tether band 300 fixed to the bottom of each housing. The strands are connected
to the housing as by the arrangement shown in Figure 14, with the individual strands 302a, 302b
of the band connected to a pin inserted through the housing. The proximal end of the band can
be split in two ends 304a, 304b after being passed through as lot on another housing, or other
device. After splitting and passing, each end 304a, 304b is secured independent of the other to
each housing 210a, 2 1Ob, such as for example, under a surgical rod.
[0103] Other embodiments of the invention can include housings having pedicle screw
capability, such as for example, the housing illustrated in Figure 25. The housing 310 includes a
screw portion 314 having construction suitable for use as a pedicle screw. One or more slots
allow for anchoring or passing of a tether band. As shown, a distal loop of a band 312 surrounds
a mounting pin 320 and exits a lower slot 316b, and upon re-entry to the housing 310 passes

                                                   16
through an upper slot 316a and over a surgical rod 318. This arrangement allows for additional
fixation options, such as for example, to support resistance to screw pullout, e.g., in osteopenic
bone. A similar arrangement is shown in Figure 26, in which a band surrounds a second surgical
rod 320. In this embodiment, the band is mounted to a pin 320 and exits out an upper slot. In
this arrangement with two surgical rods 318, 320, the assembly is used as a cross connector to
add bi-lateral stability in rod/implant constructs.
[0104] Other embodiments of the invention can include housings with laminar hooks used to
engage bone. Specifically, the housing along the combination of hook, rods and tethers to
prevent dislodging of hook, for example, to prevent proximal junctional kyphosis. Figures 27a
and 27b illustrate housing 330, 338 with hooks 336, 340, respectively. In Figure 27A, the rod
332 and tether 334 are positioned at opposing orientations, and with the tether above the rod. In
contrast, the housing 338 of Figure 27b positions the rod above the tether and at the same
orientation, i.e., in a co-axial position. Other combinations of rod and tether positions can be
practiced with this invention.
[0105] Another exemplary assembly is shown in Figure 28. As shown, a pedicle screw housing
344 is implanted into a vertebrae 348. A second housing is fixed to a rod 346 and positioned on
a opposite side of the vertebrae 348 relative the pedicle screw housing 344. A tether 350
stretches from a pin mounting in the housing 342, through a surgical created slot in the
vertebrae, and to the pedicle screw housing 344. The use of tether band 350 in a transverse
arrangement helps derotation of vertebral body and prohibits any creep of construct.
[0106] Multiple inventive housings and a tether band can also be advantageously used during
surgery to help implant a rod. For example, Figure 29 illustrates an exemplary use of a first
housing, a pedicle screw housing, and a tether 366 in which the tether band is used to laterally
translate the pedicle screw housing to the implant rod. After the first housing 360 is mounted to
a rod 368, the pedicle screw housing 362a (as shown in a first position) is translated to a second
position 362b by use of the tether, in effect moving the vertebrae (from a first position 364a to a
second position 364b) to an position engageable with the rod 368.
[0107] As discussed, the inventive housing include slots suitable for passing of a tether. For
example, pedicle screws with slots for tether band may be used to allow additional fixation
options by accommodating passage of a tether band thru the head of the screw. As shown in
Figure 30, a pedicle screw housing 370 includes a screw portion 372, and a head 382 having a

                                                  17
slot 374 in each arm. A tether 376 may pass above or below a surgical rod 378, and may be held
in place by a set screw 380. Other examples using hooks 392 are illustrated in Figures 3 la and
3 lb. These housings 394, 390 allow for additional fixation options by accommodating passage
of a tether band 376 through the body of the housing transversely (as shown in Figure 31 a) or
along the axis of the rod 378 (as shown in Figure 3 1b). Other orientation combinations are
possible in practice of invention.
[0108] Referring now to Figure 32, a tether band and pedicle screw housing is shown in use in a
reduction process. Specifically, a tether 408 is used as a reduction device to seat a rod 404 into a
pedicle screw housing 402. As shown, the housing is implanted into a vertebrae 400. By use of
tensioning instrument 406, the vertebrae 400 and housing 402 is moved in a direction A2 to seat
the rod in a desired position.
[0109] In addition to the various embodiments described above, this description also includes
the embodiments set out in the following numbered clauses:
1.     A clamp assembly for providing stabilization as a bone anchor, the assembly comprising:
       a housing defining a longitudinal axis, a center recess, and at least one slot, the housing
having two opposing arms extending from a base;
       a locking element positionable within the recess in a co-axial relationship to a mating
surface on the housing, and a band sized for travel along a predetermined path defined in part by
the at least one slot in the housing.
2.     The assembly of clause 1 wherein the housing includes a first slot disposed at a bottom of
the recess, a second slot formed in one extending arm and a third slot formed in an opposing
position in the other extending arm.
3.     The assembly of clause 2 wherein the first slot determines the origin of the predetermined
path of band travel.
4.     The assembly of clause 2 wherein at least two slots are disposed at the bottom of the
recess.
5.     The assembly of clause 2 wherein the second slot and the third slot define a portion of the
predetermined path of the band.

                                                   18
6.     The assembly of clause 1 wherein the housing is adapted to receive a surgical rod within
the recess and between the two opposing arms.
7.     The assembly of clause 1 wherein the housing is cylindrical shaped.
8.     The assembly of clause 1 wherein the housing is a uniform piece absent any moving
portions.
9.     The assembly of clause 1 wherein at least a portion of an outside surface of each arm is
planar.
10.   A clamp system comprising:
        a spinal clamp assembly comprising:
                a housing defining a longitudinal axis, a center recess, and at least one slot, the
                housing having two opposing arms extending from a base;
                a locking element having a tool-engaging surface, and positionable within the
                recess in a co-axial relationship to the housing; and
                a band sized for travel along a predetermined path defined in part by the at least
                one slot in the housing; and
                a tensioning instrument having a hollow body, a proximal end, a distal end, the
        proximal end sized for insertion of a tool into a length of the instrument and the distal
        end engageable with the housing in a co-axial relationship, and a carriage having a band
        securing mechanism;
                wherein the tensioning instrument defines at least one travel slot which permits
        movement of the carriage between a band non-tightened position and a band tightened
        position.
11.    The system of clause 10 comprising a tightening rod sized for insertion into the proximal
end of the tensioning instrument and engageable with the carriage, wherein axial position of the
carriage is controllable by user manipulation of the tightening rod.
12.    The system of clause 10 wherein the distal end of tensioning instrument is slideable over
the outside surfaces of the two opposing arms.

                                                  19
13.    The system of clause 10 comprising a locking tool sized for insertion through the
tensioning instrument from the proximal end to the distal end and engageable with the tool
engaging surface of the locking element.
14.    The system of clause 11 comprising a tensioning tool sized for manipulation of the
tightening rod when the housing, locking element, tensioning instrument, and tensioning rod are
positioned along a common longitudinal axis.
15.    A method of securing a clamp assembly comprising:
         providing a clamp assembly including a housing, a locking element, a band, and a
surgical rod;
         positioning the housing at a targeted location adjacent a bone;
         wrapping the band about the bone and about the housing, the band along a predetermined
path;
         positioning the surgical rod within the housing;
         inserting the locking element within the housing to surround the rod;
         engaging a tensioning instrument onto the clamp assembly;
         inserting the band through a carriage of the tensioning instrument; and
         manipulating the tensioning instrument to move the carriage, whereby the band is
tightened about the bone.
16.    The method of clause 15 further comprising provisionally locking the locking element into
the housing prior to engaging the tensioning instrument.
17.    The method of clause 15 further comprising locking the locking element into the housing
after manipulating the tensioning instrument.
18.    The method of clause 15 wherein the locking element is inserted into the housing along a
common longitudinal axis.
19.    The method of clause 15 wherein the tensioning instrument is engaged with the spinal
clamp assembly along a common longitudinal axis.
20.    The method of clause 15 wherein the surgical rod is positioned within the housing with at
least a portion of the band between the housing and the surgical rod.

                                                  20
21.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein the housing includes at least one aperture adapted for
inserting a pin.
22.    The assembly of clause 21 wherein the base includes at least two apertures, with at least
one aperture on either side of a slot disposed at a bottom of the recess.
23.    The assembly of clause 21 wherein at least one of the two arms includes at least two
apertures, with at least one aperture on either side of a slot disposed in the arm.
24.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein a hook extends from the bottom of the base.
25.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein a screw extends from the bottom of the base.
26.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein at least one slot is disposed in the base to form a travel
path through the base for the band and the at least one slot is below and remote from a bottom
surface of the recess.
27.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein the housing includes a first slot formed in one extending
arm and a second slot formed in an opposing position in the other extending arm.
28.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein the locking element is a set screw.
29.    The assembly of clause 9 wherein the planar portions of the outside surfaces of the two
opposing arms are parallel.
30.    The assembly of clause 1 wherein at least a portion of the inside surface of each arm is
threaded.
[0110] While various inventive aspects, concepts and features of the general inventive concepts
are described and illustrated herein in the context of various exemplary embodiments, these
various aspects, concepts and features may be used in many alternative embodiments, either
individually or in various combinations and sub-combinations thereof. Unless expressly
excluded herein all such combinations and sub-combinations are intended to be within the scope
of the general inventive concepts. Still further, while various alternative embodiments as to the
various aspects, concepts and features of the inventions (such as alternative materials, structures,
configurations, methods, circuits, devices and components, software, hardware, control logic,

                                                    21
alternatives as to form, fit and function, and so on) may be described herein, such descriptions
are not intended to be a complete or exhaustive list of available alternative embodiments,
whether presently known or later developed. Those skilled in the art may readily adopt one or
more of the inventive aspects, concepts or features into additional embodiments and uses within
the scope of the general inventive concepts even if such embodiments are not expressly
disclosed herein. Additionally, even though some features, concepts or aspects of the inventions
may be described herein as being a preferred arrangement or method, such description is not
intended to suggest that such feature is required or necessary unless expressly so stated. Still
further, exemplary or representative values and ranges may be included to assist in
understanding the present disclosure; however, such values and ranges are not to be construed in
a limiting sense and are intended to be critical values or ranges only if so expressly stated.
Moreover, while various aspects, features and concepts may be expressly identified herein as
being inventive or forming part of an invention, such identification is not intended to be
exclusive, but rather there may be inventive aspects, concepts and features that are fully
described herein without being expressly identified as such or as part of a specific invention.
Descriptions of exemplary methods or processes are not limited to inclusion of all steps as being
required in all cases, nor is the order that the steps are presented to be construed as required or
necessary unless expressly so stated.

                                                  22
CLAIMS
1.     A clamp assembly for orthopedic stabilization, the assembly comprising:
       a clamp housing, a top surface, a recess, a distal base and a bottom surface, the recess
defining a longitudinal axis and extending through the housing from the top surface through the
distal base and toward the bottom surface, the housing further comprising at least two through
slots, each one of the at least two through slots disposed at a surface of the housing selected from
the bottom surface of the housing and a side surface of the housing;
       a securement assembly positionable within the recess in a co-axial relationship to a mating
surface on the recess;
       a band sized for travel along a predetermined path defined in part by the through slots in
the housing; and
       wherein at least one of the through slots is a starting point for travel of the band along the
predetermined path.
2.     The clamp assembly of claim 1, wherein the mating surface on the recess comprises a
locking feature for engaging with the securement assembly.
3.     The clamp assembly of claim 2, wherein the securement assembly comprises a securement
element and a locking element.
4.     The clamp assembly of claim 3, wherein the housing is adapted to receive within the recess
a compression assembly comprising: a compression element positioned within the distal base
and below; and in a co-axial relationship to the locking element.
5.     The clamp assembly of claim 2, wherein the securement assembly comprises an integrated
locking and securement element.
6.     The clamp assembly of claim 2, wherein the locking feature comprises one or more of
threads and a groove.
7.     The clamp assembly of claim 1, comprising one of two through slots and more than two
through slots.

                                                  23
8.     The clamp assembly of claim 2, comprising more than two through slots, wherein at least
one of the more than two through slots is disposed at the bottom surface of the housing and at
least two through slots are disposed opposite one another, each on a side surface of the housing
and positioned on the housing to define a path of the band below the securement assembly.
9.     The clamp assembly of claim 4, comprising more than two through slots, wherein at least
one of the more than two through slots is disposed at the bottom surface of the housing and at
least two through slots are disposed opposite one another, each on a side surface of the housing
and positioned on the housing to define a path of the band below the securement assembly.
10.    The claim assembly of claim 1, wherein the housing comprises on first and second sides
opposing elongate side arms that extend along the longitudinal axis defined by the recess,
wherein two of each of the at least two through slots disposed on a side surface of the housing is,
respectively, in one of each of the opposing elongate side arms.
11.    The claim assembly of claim 12, wherein the securement element is a surgical rod, and
wherein the at least two opposing through slots in the elongate side arms define a band path
below the surgical rod, and wherein the locking element is a set screw and at least a portion of
the housing recess is threaded for engagement with the set screw.
12.    The clamp assembly of claim 11, the clamp housing comprising an elongate slot aperture
on the bottom surface of the distal base, and two opposing coaxial holes and a pin insertable
therein, the coaxial holes and inserted pin positioned to bisect the elongate slot aperture and form
the starting point for travel of the band, and wherein a first end of the band is fixed to the clamp
housing by engagement around the pin.
13.    The clamp assembly of claim 11, the clamp housing comprising two elongate slot apertures
on the bottom surface of the distal base that form the starting point for travel of the band, and
wherein a first end of the band is fixed to the clamp housing by engagement through the two
elongate slot apertures on the bottom surface.
14.    The clamp assembly of claim 8, wherein the distal base of the housing has a cross-sectional
shape that is circular, and wherein the top surface of the housing comprises a cylindrical
extension having a circular opening to the recess.

                                                   24
15.    The clamp assembly of claim 1, wherein the distal base includes one or more features
selected from the group of a hook extending from the bottom surface, a screw extending from the
bottom surface, one or more apertures for receiving a bone fixation element selected from a
screw, a rod, a pin, a plug, a bone anchor, and a wire, texturing on the bottom surface, ribs on the
bottom surface, and knurling on the bottom surface.
16.    The clamp assembly of claim 1 wherein the clamp housing is unitary.
17.    A band clamp assembly comprising:
         a unitary clamp housing comprising:
                 a recess extending along an axis through a base and toward a distal bottom
         surface, the recess shaped for receiving a distally placed rod;
                 an internal mating surface for engagement with a locking element positionable
         proximally within the recess;
                 at least one aperture through one of a side of the clamp housing and the bottom
         surface of the clamp housing base, wherein the at least one aperture is an elongate slot;
                 a band that is passable through the at least one elongate slot aperture of the clamp
         housing;
                 a rod insertable through the recess into the base; and
                 a locking element positionable in a co-axial relationship within the recess and
         having an external circumferential surface for engagement with the internal mating
         surface of the clamp housing;
         wherein, the band is passable along a path from beneath the rod and through at least one
of the at least one elongate slot aperture; and
         wherein the band is secured to the clamp by the application of tension with the tensioning
instrument and manipulation of the locking tool to press the locking element against the rod to
pinch the band and secure the locking element into engagement with the clamp housing.
18.    A band clamp system according to claim 17, wherein a first end of the band is fixed to the
unitary clamp housing.
19.    A band clamp system according to claim 17, the recess in the clamp housing defining two
opposing arms shaped to retain the rod, wherein the arms form opposing U shaped concavities
that retain the rod, wherein the distal end of the tensioning instrument is slideable over the

                                                  25
outside surfaces of the two opposing arms, and wherein a mating engagement surface of the
recess is threaded, wherein the rod is sized to extend laterally beyond the sides of the base.
20.    A band clamp system according to claim 17, wherein the clamp housing is generally
cylindrical in shape.
                                          Band-Lok, LLC
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 26

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
