                                           ABSTRACT
Methods and compositions for controlling the growth of an invasive species by application of
a composition comprised of a natural pesticide derived from a species to the invasive
species, especially endocides. Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for
controlling the growth of a first invasive species by application of a composition comprising a
natural pesticide derived from a second invasive species to the first invasive species. In
some embodiments, the invasive species is an invasive species with glands as the primary
accumulation sites of autotoxic chemicals. The first and second invasive species may be the
same or they may be different. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide may be an
endocide. An endocide (endogenous biocide) is a biocide derived from an endogenous
bioactive agent (e.g., a secondary metabolite) that does not cause apparent poison in
normal growth of the producing species but will poison or inhibit and even eliminate the
parent species when induced in producing species.

                                           DESCRIPTION
   COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS TO SELECTIVELY CONTROL INVASIVE SPECIES
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001]          This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Application
 5 No. 61/819,713, filed May 6, 2013, and is a divisional of AU 2014262886, both of which which
   are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
   [0002]
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   A.      Field of the Invention
 0 [0003]          The present invention relates generally to the fields of Biology and Chemistry.
   More particularly, it concerns compositions and methods for controlling the growth of invasive
   species by endocides.
   B.      Description of Related Art
   [0004]          Invasive species are major threats to agriculture, natural environments, and
 5 public health (Ascunce et al. 2011). The estimated annual damage from invasive species
   worldwide totals more than $1.4 trillion - five percent of the global economy (The Nature
   Conservancy, 2013). The principle of the current management strategies of invasive species in
   the world is mainly restricted to eliminate or eradicate the species by using synthetic herbicide,
   biological or mechanical applications. Such control measures of invasive species are difficult
20 and often very expensive (Beck et al. 2008). Controlling invasive species and the associated
   economic and environmental damages amounts to more than $138 billion per year (Pimentel
   et al. 1999). More than $500 million is spent on residential exotic weed control and an
   additional $1 billion is invested in non-indigenous weed control on golf courses (Pimentel et
   al. 1999). In addition to huge expenditures, effectiveness decreases as more species develop
25 resistance to herbicides and public environmental concerns regarding chemical and biological
   applications increase, it requires a novel philosophy to successfully control the noxious
   invasive species.
                                                    1

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    [0005]           Five of the most aggressive and noxious species in the southeastern United
    States are representative of different groups of invasive species. They include one fern
    species: giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta D. S. Mitchell) (family Salviniaceae) from the
    phyllum Pteridophyta of the kingdom Plantae, two flowering plant species: Brazilian pepper
 5  tree (Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi) (family Anacardiaceae) from the order Sapindales and
    Chinese tallow tree (Triadica sebifera (L.) Small) (family Eurphorbiaceae) from the order
    Malpighiales of the phyllum Flowering Plants of the kingdom Plantae, and two insect
    species: the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) (family Formicidae) from the
    superorder Endopterygota and the subterranean termite (Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar))
 0  (family Rhinotermitidae) of superorder Exopterygota of the phylum Arthropoda of the
    kingdom Animalia. Of these species, giant salvinia is an aquatic species and the others are
    terrestrial species.
    [0006]           Salvinia S6guier is a genus of floating ferns belonging to the family
    Salviniaceae Reichenbach and has 10-14 species in the world, particularly in the tropics.
 5  Salvinia molesta D. S. Mitchell, known as giant salvinia, water fern, or kariba weed, is native
    to Brazil. Since 1939, it has invaded lake and river systems in warm climates in the world
    (Room et al. 1990). At present, giant salvinia is one of the most widespread and
    environmentally, economically and socially destructive invasive plant species (Schooler et al.
    2011). In addition, giant salvinia provides habitat for snails that are intermediate hosts for
 '0 Schistosoma sp. which parasitize the human intestinal and urinary tracts. The parasitic disease
    schistosomiasis is also known as snail fever, bilharzia, or bilharziosis, is the second most
    socioeconomically devastating parasitic disease after malaria.
    [0007]           Giant salvinia is able to double in number and biomass in less than three days
    under optimal condition and forms dense mats over still waters (Barrett 1989). The plant can
25  regenerate vegetatively even after severe damage or drying for days (Finlayson 1984; Room
    and Thomas 1986). The explosive growth of S. molesta adversely affects the natural
    ecological system of the infested region, and it also causes considerable economic damage
    and sanitation problems. Dense mats of S. molesta reduce dissolved oxygen levels and block
    all sunlight from penetrating the infested water body. Thus, macrophytes and microscopic
30  algae that form the base of the food chain may die off (Room et al. 1990). The creatures that
    feed on these may die, too, and so on up the food chain. This pest threatens cultivated aquatic
    crops, and it can clog irrigation and drinking water lines and foul hydroelectric plants.
                                                     2

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    Salvinia-infested waters cannot be used for boating or other recreational purposes (USDA
    2000). Biological, mechanical, and herbicidal control of invasive giant salvinia is very
    expensive and has not been successful. Since 1980, the tiny salvinia weevil (Cyrtobagous
    salviniae, Curculionidae) has been introduced into most regions where giant salvinia has
 5  invaded (Julien et al. 2009). The weevil is a strict specialist with adults feeding on salvinia
    buds; the plant is highly susceptible to the insects and thus the weevil has successfully
    controlled salvinia for years in some regions. But recently it was found that the biological
    control is incomplete and fitful associated with stochastic flooding events and thus is
    unpredictable (Schooler et al. 2011). Other attempts to control and eradicate S. molesta
 0  through herbicides and mechanical means have failed to achieve their purpose and may cause
    environmental backlashes due to the introduction of chemicals or bioagents into the
    environment (Abbasi and Nipaney 1986).
    [0008]          Brazilian pepper tree (Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi) (family Anacardiaceae)
    is an evergreen shrub or tree (up to 12 m in height) native to South America and was
 5  introduced to North America in the 1800s as an ornamental plant. Like poison ivy or sumac
    of the same family, this species may also cause dermatitis to people with sensitive skin and
    even respiratory problems during its bloom period. Brazilian pepper tree has extensively
    infested landscapes in Florida and south Texas and it produces a dense canopy that shades out
    other plants particularly native species. It is reported that its aqueous extract inhibited the
 '0 growth and germination of native Florida plants (Morgan and Overhlt 2005). The
    invasiveness of Brazilian pepper tree can be attributed to its high seed production, high
    germination rates and dispersal by birds and mammals. Currently, small pepper tree seedlings
    are controlled by digging or pulling and also by the application of herbicides.
    [0009]          Chinese tallow tree (Triadica sebifera (L.) Small) (family Eurphorbiaceae) is
25  native to China and is now a very invasive species in the southeastern United States. A
    mature tree may annually produce an average of 100,000 seeds that are spread mainly by
    birds and water (Jubinsky and Anderson 1996). Under the parent tree, there maybe
    approximately 15 seedlings per square meter, and its relative frequency of tallow seedlings
    was greater than that of all species except for sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.).
30  Various measures, including manual and mechanical, environmental/cultural, chemical, and
    biological methods have been used to control this invasive species.
                                                    3

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    [0010]          Since its introduction from its native South American range in the 1930s, the
    red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) (family Formicidae) has rapidly widespread
    throughout the southern United States. It has also recently invaded other regions of the world,
    including the Caribbean, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Singapore, and China
 5  (Chen et al. 2009; Ascunce et al. 2011). Unlike other insects in Hymenoptera, the red
    imported fire ant contains a small fraction of proteins in its venom. About 95% of the fire ant
    venom consists of alkaloids (primarily 2-methyl-6-alkyl or alkenyl piperidines), which are
    responsible for the immediate hive formation and the development of the sterile pustule at the
    sting site (Chen et al. 2009; Hoffman 2010). The pest detrimentally impacts human health,
 0  livestock, wildlife, crops, machinery, and electrical equipment (Morrison et al. 2004). The
    estimated cost of control, medical treatment, and damage to property by fire ant in the United
    States alone is more than $6 billion annually (Ascunce et al. 2011). An effective measure for
    control is needed for both ecological and economic reasons.
    [0011]          Eastern subterranean     termite   (Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar))   (family
 5  Rhinotermitidae) is the most common termite found in North America. This native termite is
    one of the most economically important wood destroying pests in the United States and it
    causes billions of dollars in home damage each year. Currently, termite management includes
    reducing the potential for termite infestation, preventing entry, and chemical control.
    [0012]          The use of defensive chemicals is commonly reported throughout the plant
 '0 and animal kingdoms. It is known that exceptional success of some invasive species is
    because they produce toxic secondary metabolites and have negative allelopathic effects on
    neighboring plants or to protect themselves from microbial attacks and insect/animal
    herbivory (Quintana et al. 2008; Paudel 2009). Studies on defensive or allelopathic effects of
    chemicals    are mainly to inter-species. Autotoxicity (autointoxication or intraspecific
25  allelopathy in plants) has not been well investigated although it has been hypothesized to
    exist since the 1970s (McKey 1974; Fowden and Lea 1979; Li et al. 2010). The term was
    used in plants when a species releases toxic substances into the environmenmt that inhibit or
    delay germination and growth of the same species (Chou and Lin 1976; Singh et al. 1999).
    There are few autotoxicity reports in crops and weeds and resulting soil sickness and
30  replanting problems (Singh et al. 1999). These reported autotoxic chemicals had broad
    spectrum allelopathic effects and were more effectively inhibited in non-closely-related
    species in other genera, families or orders than in the parent species (Abdul-Rahman and
                                                     4

        WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    Habib 1989; Heisey 1999; Batish et al. 2002). However, many of these reports are general
    allelopathy rather than autotoxicity cases. For example, the effective concentrations of
    momilactone A and B from rice (Oryza sativa L.) (family Poaceae) to inhibit the seedlings of
    rice cultivars were 100 and 333 times, respectively of those to inhibit four species of
 5  Brassicaceae, Asteraceae, and Fabaceae and five weed grass species of Poaceae (Kato
    Noguchi and Ota 2013). Leaf extracts from Leucaena leucocephala de Wit. (family
    Fabaceae) had significant toxic effects on crop or tree species belonging to other genera of
    Fabaceae or other families but were not toxic to L. leucocephala seedlings (Chou and Kuo
    1986). Minosine isolated from L. leucocephala had more potent inhibitory activity on the
 0  seedlings of five species of Brassicaceae, Asteraceae, Fabacreae, and Poaceae but did not
    show any inhibition on the producing plants at 100 mg/L (Xuan et al. 2006). Leaf and flower
    extracts of ragweed (Parthenium hysterophorus L.) (family Asteraceae) inhibited the
    germination and growth of several species in Brassicaceae, Fabaceae, and Poaceae although
    they showed autotoxic effects to the producing plants (Picman and Picman 1984; Javaid et al.
 5  2007). Alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) (family Fabaceae) is one of the most extensive
    investigated and well-known autotoxicity species. It was reported that alfalfa extracts and its
    phenolics or saponins showed autotoxic effects on seedling growth of alfalfa and allelopathic
    effects on several crop and weed species of Fabaceae, Poaceae, and Brassicaceae (Wyman
    Simpson et al. 1991; Chon et al. 2002). However, alfalfa allelopathy seems to be more severe
 '0 than autotoxicity (Hedge and Miller 1990). Such non-selectivity or low toxicity of the
    reported autotoxic chemicals to the parent species over other species limited the development
    of biocide to selectively control an invasive species. In fact, it has been widely believed that a
    species can avoid self-toxicity by its endogenous cytotoxic metabolites (Baldwin and
    Callahan 1993; Wang 1996; Gog et al. 2005; Sirikantaramas et al. 2008a, b). Therefore,
25  studies in autotoxicity have been primarily focused on avoidance of autotoxicity and
    detoxification mechanisms. To date there is no method or product developed to use any
    autotoxic chemicals to selectively control the invasive parent species.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
30  [0013]          Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for controlling the growth of a
    first invasive species by application of a composition comprising a natural pesticide derived
    from a second invasive species to the first invasive species. In some embodiments, the
                                                    5

        WO 2014/182627                                                                PCT/US2014/036837
    invasive species is an invasive species with glands as the primary accumulation sites of
    autotoxic chemicals. The first and second invasive species may be the same or they may be
    different.
    [0014]           In some embodiments, provided are methods of controlling the growth of an
 5  invasive species comprising applying a composition comprising a natural pesticide to the
    invasive species, wherein the natural pesticide is derived from an invasive species. Any
    measure of decreased growth or reproduction of the invasive species is contemplated. In
    some embodiments, the growth of the invasive species may be slowed or halted. In some
    embodiments, the invasive species may be eliminated. In some embodiments, the growth of
 0  the invasive species is halted within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 days, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 weeks, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
    6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months or more. In some embodiments, the growth of the invasive
    species is halted within 1 week or 1 month. In some embodiments, the growth of the invasive
    species is halted for at least 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 weeks, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, or 12 months,
    1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years or more. In some embodiments, the growth of the invasive
 5  species is halted for at least 1 year.
    [0015]           In some embodiments, the natural pesticide may be an endocide. An endocide
    (endogenous biocide) is a biocide derived from an endogenous bioactive agent (e.g., a
    secondary metabolite) that does not cause apparent poison in normal growth of the producing
    species but will poison or inhibit and even eliminate the parent species when induced in
 '0 producing species. It can selectively eliminate the parent species (and possiblly its closely
    related species) when externally applied. The dead tissues of the species caused by an
    endocide will enhance the endocidal function to the species. The endocide may have effects
    especially in the species with glands as accumulation sites of autotoxic chemicals. An
    endocide may have effects in all or some growth stages of the species species (e.g., primary,
25  secondary, and tertiary stages) and in all or selective tissues (vegetative or reproductive
    tissues).
    [0016]           Application of endocides at low concentrations (dosages) may be used in
    control a selected part (e.g., a specific cell(s), tissue(s), or organ(s)) of the producing species.
    Application     of endocides     at low      concentrations    (dosages)    may produce       abnormal
30  morphogenesis. In some embodiments, the endocides may induce mutations. In some
    embodiments, the induced mutations may be used to produce desirable genotypes. In some
    embodiments, the induced biosynthesis of endogenous autotoxic chemicals by a method
                                                       6

        WO 2014/182627                                                      PCT/US2014/036837
    intended to stimulate gland development may also produce abnormal morphogenesis,
    mutations, and desirable genotypes.
    [0017]          In some embodiments, the endocide is an extract from the invasive species to
    be controlled. In some embodiments, the endocide is a fraction of extract from the invasive
 5  species to be controlled. In some embodiments, the endocide is dry matter from the invasive
    species to be controlled. In some embodiments, the endocide is fresh matter from the invasive
    species to be controlled.     The natural pesticide "derived from a species" may be any
    composition or compound originally obtained from a species, even if further modified. It
    also encompasses synthetic compounds that are equivalent to the compounds derived from
 0  the species or derivatives thereof.
    [0018]          In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is derived from a second, distinct
    species of invasive species. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is a compound
    isolated from the second invasive species.
    [0019]          The natural pesticides may be any appropriate material.             In some
 5  embodiments, the natural pesticide is the dry or fresh matter. In some embodiments, the
    natural pesticide is an extract or fraction thereof. In some embodiments, the extract is an
    aqueous or organic extract or fraction thereof. In some embodiments, the extract is a dry or
    solubilized extract.   In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is dry matter. In some
    embodiments, the intact dry matter is used for production of the natural pesticides. In some
 '0 embodiments, the dry matter is ground or processed. In some embodiments, the natural
    pesticide is a concentrated extract or fraction from dry matter. In some embodiments, the
    natural pesticide is fresh matter. In some embodiments, the intact fresh matter is used for
    production of the natural pesticides. In some embodiments, the fresh matter is chopped or
    blended. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is an extract (juice) obtained directly
25  from chopped, blended, or/and expressed fresh matter. In some embodiments, the natural
    pesticide is a concentrated extract juice from chopped, blended, or/and expressed fresh
    matter. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is a diluted extract juice from chopped,
    blended, or/and expressed fresh matter. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is a
    compound isolated from the species of invasive species to be controlled. In some
30  embodiments, the natural pesticide is a compound isolated from a second species of invasive
    species.
                                                   7

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    [0020]          In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is ground dried matter in a water
    penetrating bag. In some embodiments, the bag material is fabric, nylon, plastic,
    compostable, or biodegradable. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is ground dried
    species matter in compressed form (e.g., compressed brick or pie ("tea brick")) without a bag.
 5  The tea brick can be prepared under appropriate moisture (7-15%), temperature (50-90 C),
    and pressure (250-500 kPa). It may float around or on the surface of the invasive species to
    be controlled and may break down and dissolve in the water within a few minutes after
    contact with water is made. It may mix with local soils to prepare a sinkable tea brick which
    can contact water quickly and be more effective.
 0  [0021]          In some embodiments, production of extract from the dried species matter may
    include processes of fresh matter collection of harvest, drying, grounding, extraction,
    filtration, concentrating, formula preparation, and spray application. In some embodiments,
    extraction is aqueous or organic solvent extraction, distillation, infusion, decoction, or
    percolation.
 5  [0022]          In some embodiments, production of extract (juice) from fresh species matter
    may include processes of fresh matter collection or harvest, shredding or pulping, extraction,
    filtration, formula preparation, and spray application. In some embodiments, extraction an
    expression method (e.g., hydraulic pressing, screw pressing, expeller pressing, sponge
    expression, abrasion, and tcuelle dpiquer).
 '0 [0023]          The natural pesticide may have selective activity against the invasive species
    to be controlled over other species. The selectivity is more significant when the natural
    pesticide is an extract. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide may have selective
    activity against the invasive species to be controlled and its closely-related species over other
    species. In some embodiments, the closely-related species is a species within the same genus.
25  In some embodiments, the closely-related species is a species within the same family. In
    some embodiments, the closely-related species is a species within the same order. In some
    embodiments, a composition comprising the natural pesticide can eliminate or inhibit the
    invasive species. In some embodiments, a composition comprising the natural pesticide can
    eliminate or inhibit the invasive species and its closely-related species (e.g., a species of the
30  same order) of the invasive species. In some embodiments, a composition comprising the
    natural pesticide does not inhibit or slightly inhibit a native species that is not in the genus,
    family, or order of the invasive species. In some embodiments, a composition comprising the
                                                    8

      WO 2014/182627                                                                                             PCT/US2014/036837
   natural pesticide does not inhibit or slightly inhibit an invasive species that is not in the
   genus, family, or order of the invasive species.
   [0024]          In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is a compound of formula::
                                                                       R1
                                                              R0     8 7     R1 2
                                                 R8       K
                                                          R31                    1106
                                                       4     2'         3                6"
                                             R7      '        6, O       10       4
                                                 RRe
                                                   6
                                                             Rs                       "       R2
                                                                           R4 3" 21''R
                                                                                      R3
 5
   [0025]          wherein each R 1, R 2, R 3, R 4 is independently -H, -OH, -halogen, -NH 2,
   COOH, -C(O)NH 2, -SH, -S(O)NH 2 , -S(O) 2 NH 2 , -OCH 20R 1 3 , -OC(O)R 1 3 , -OC(O)OR                                               13,
   OC(O)NR 1 3 , -OP(O)(OR        13 ) 2 ,  -SR  13 ,   -S(O)      2 NHR 13 , -OP(O)(OR               13 ) 2 , -SOR  13 ,   -S(O)  2 R1 3 ,
   NHC(O)R13,       -NHSOR       13 ,      NHS(O) 2 R1 3 ,            -OPO(OR14)2,               -O-arylPO(OR           14 ) 2 , or     -0
 0 alkylarylPO(OR 14) 2 , -NHR        13 , -N(R13) 2 , -C(S) R 1 3 , -OR                13 ,
   [0026]          Each R5 , R6, R 7, Rs, R 9 , Rio, Rii, R 1 2 is independently -H, -OH, -halogen,
   CN, -NH 2, -NO 2 , -COOH, -C(O)NH 2, -SH, -S(O)NH                                     2,  -S(O) 2 NH 2 , -C 1 -Cio (oxy)alkyl,
   C1-Cio alky, -C 1 -Cio alkoxy, -C 1 -Cio (hydroxyl)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio (amino)alkyl, -C1 -Cio
   (halo)alkyl, -C 2 -Cio alkenyl,         -   C2 -Cio (aryl)alkyl, -CH 2OR 1 3, -OCH 2OR 1 3 , -OC(O)R 1 3 ,
 5 C(O)R 13, -OC(O)OR      13 ,  -OC(O)NR           13 ,   -C(O)O R 13 , -C(O)NR                  1 3,  -OP(O)(OR1 3)2 , -SR           13 ,
   S(O) 2NHR 13 , -C(O)NR       13 , -OP(O)(OR              13 ) 2, -SR     13 ,    -S(0     2)NHR 13 ,       -SOR  13 ,   -S(O)  2 R1 3 ,
   NHC(O)R13,       -NHSOR       13 ,      NHS(O) 2 R1 3 ,            -OPO(OR           14 )2 ,  -O-arylPO(OR           14 ) 2 , or     -0
   alkylarylPO(OR 14) 2 , -isocyanate, -azido, and
   [0027]          R14 is -H,           -Ci-Cio          alkyl, C 7 -C 1 3 arylalkyl, Ci-Cio aminoalkyl, C1 -Cio
20 haloalkyl, C1 -Cio hydroxyalkyl, C1-Cio alkoxy, -isocyanate, -azido, -imino, -thio, and R 13 is
   -H, -C 1 -Cio alkyl, -(C 3 -C7 ) cycloalkyl, -Ci-Cio (halo)alkyl, -aryl, -C 2 -Cio alkenyl, -C 2 -Cio,
   -C 2 -Cio alkynyl, -C 1 -Cio (aryl)alkyl, -C 2 -Cio (aryl)alkenyl, -C 2 -Cio (aryl)alkynyl, -C 1-Cio
   (hydroxyl)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio alkoxy, -C1-Cio (amino)alkyl, -isocyanate, -azido, -imino, -thio,
   alkenyloxy, -alkynyloxy, -aryloxy, -aralkoxy, -heteroaryloxy, -acyloxy, -alkoxyamino,
                                                                      9

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    alkenylamino,      -alkynylamino,      -arylamino,     -aralkylamino,   -heteroarylamino,
    alkylsulfonylamino, -heterocycloalkyl, -heteroaryl.
    [0028]          In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is a compound of formula:
                                                HO              O
                                              3  0     4         01
                                   HO                  1 O    4
                                      HOHO     6,             0      R2
                                                                 2"
                                                                 OH
 5  [0029]          wherein R1 is OH or a-H; and R 2 is P-H or OH. In some embodiments, R1      =
    OH, R 2  = P-H. In some embodiment, R1       = a-H, R2  =  OH. In some embodiments, R 1 = OH,
    R2  = OH. In some embodiment, R1        =  a-H, R2 = P-H. These compounds may be extracted
    and isolated from plant material or may be chemically synthesized.
    [0030]          The invasive species may be any appropriate invasive plant. In some
 0  embodiments, the invasive plant is an aquatic plant. In some embodiments, the invasive
    aquatic plant is Salvinia adnata Desvaux, S. auriculataAublet, S. biloba Raddi, S. cucullata
    Roxb. ex Bory, S. cyathiformis Maxon, S. hastate Desvaux, S. herzogii de la Sota, S. martynii
    Kopp, S. minima Baker, S. molesta, S. natans (L.) Allioni, S. nymphellula Desvaux, S.
    oblongifolia Martius, S. radula Baker, S. rotundifolia Willd., S. sprucei Kuhn, Azolla
 5  carolinianaWilld. (family Azollaceae, sometimes the genus Azolla Lam. was placed in the
    family Salviniace), A. circinata Oltz & Hall, A. cristata Kaulf., A. filiculoides Lam., A.
   japonica Franch. & Sav., A mexicana C. Presl, A. microphylla Kaulf., A. nilotica Decne. ex
    Mett., A. pinnata R.Br., A.       rubra R. Br., Lemna minuta Kunth (family Araceae),
    Alternanthera philoxeroides (Matt.) Griseb. (family Amaranthaceae), Colocasia esculenta
20  (L.) Schott (family Araceae), Eichharniacrassipes (Martius) Solms (family Pontederiaceae),
    Hydrilla verticillata (L. f.) Royle (family Hydrocharitaceae),        Hygrophila polysperma
    Anderson (family Acanthaceae), Hymenachne amplexicaulis (Rudge) Nees (family Poaceae),
    Ipomoea aquatica Forssk (family Convolvulaceae), Myriophyllum spicatum L. (family
    Haloragaceae), Panicum repens L. (family Poaceae), Pennisetum purpureum Schumach
25  (family Poaceae), Pistia stratiotes L. (family Araceae), or Urochloa mutica (Forssk.) T.Q.
                                                    10

       WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    Nguyen (family Poaceae). In particular embodiments, the invasive plant is S. molesta, S.
    minima, A. caroliniana,L. minuta, E. crassipes, or P. stratiotes.
    [0031]         The invasive species may be any appropriate invasive plant. In some
    embodiments, the invasive plant is a terrestrial plant. In some embodiments, the invasive
 5  plant is Acacia mearnsii De Wild (family Fabaceae), Acroptilon repens (L.) DC. (family
    Asteraceae), Ailanthus altissima (P. Mill.) Swingle (family Simaroubaceae), Akebia quinata
    (Houtt.) Decne. (family Lardizabalaceae), Albizia julibrissin Durazz. (family Fabaceae),
    Alliaria petiolata (M. Bieb.)     Cavara & Grande        (family   Brassicaceae), Ampelopsis
    brevipedunculata (Maxim.)      Trautv. (family Vitaceae), Ardisia crenata Sims (family
 0  Myrsinaceae), Arundo donax L. family Poaceae), Berberis thunbergii DC.                 (family
    Berberidaceae), Bromus tectorum L. (family Poaceae), Broussonetiapapyrifera (L.) L'H6r.
    ex Vent. (family Moraceae),       Cardaria pubescens (C.A.        Mey.)   Jarmolenko   (family
    Brassicaceae), Carduus nutans L. (family Asteraceae), Celastrus orbiculatus Thunb. (family
    Celastraceae), Centaurea stoebe L. spp. micranthos (Gugler) Hayek (family Asteraceae),
 5  Centaurea stoebe L. spp. micranthos (Gugler) Hayek, C. solstitialis L., C. diffusa Lam., C.
    calcitrapa L. (family Asteraceae), Cecropia peltata L. (family Urticaceae), Chromolaena
    odorata (L.) King & H.E. Robins (family Asteraceae), Cinchona pubescens Vahl (family
    Rubiaceae), Eichharnia crassipes (Martius) Solms (family Pontederiaceae), Cinnamomum
    camphora (L.)     J. Presl   (family  Lauraceae),   Cirsium arvense (L.)       Scop.   (family
 '0 Asteraceae),Clidemiahirta (L.) D. Don (family Melastomataceae), Cynoglossum officinale L.
    (family Boraginaceae), Cytisus scoparius (L.) Link (family Fabaceae), Dioscorea alata L., D.
    bulbifera L., or D. oppositifolia L. (family Dioscoreaceae), Dipsacus fullonum L. (family
    Dipsacaceae), Elaeagnus angustifoliaL., E. pungens Thunb., or E. umbellata Thunb. (family
    Elaeagnaceae), Elymus repens (L.) Gould (family Poaceae), Eragrostis curvula (Schrad.)
25  Nees family Poaceae), Euonymus alatus (Thunb.) Sieb. or E. fortunei (Tursz.) Hand.-Maz.
    (family Celastraceae), Euphorbia esula L. (family Euphorbiaceae), Firmianasimplex (L.) W.
    Wright (family Sterculiaceae), Frangula alnus Mill. (family Rhamnaceae), Hedera colchica
    (K. Koch) K. Koch, H. helix L. H. hibernica (G. Kirchn.) Bean (family Araliaceae),
    Hedychium gardnerianum Sheppard ex Ker Gawl (family Zingiberaceae), Heracleum
30  mantegazzianum Sommier & Levier (family         Apiaceae), Hiptage benghalensis (L.) Kurz
    (family Malpighiaceae), Imperata cykindrica (L.) P. Beauv. (family Poaceae), Lespedeza
    bicolor Turcz. L. cuneata (Dum. Cours.) G. Don, or. L. thunbergii (DC.) Nakai (family
                                                 11

         WO 2014/182627                                                       PCT/US2014/036837
     Fabaceae), Ligustrum japonicum Thunb., L. lucidum Ait., L. obtusifolium Sieb. & Zucc., L.
     ovalifolium Hassk., L. sinense Lour., or L. vulgare L. (family Oleaceae), Linaria dalmatica
     (L.) Mill., L. vulgaris Mill. (family Scrophulariaceae), Liriope muscari (Decne.) L.H. Bailey
     (family Liliaceae), Lonicera x bella Zabel, L. fragantissima Lindl. & Paxon, L. japonica
 5   Thunb., L. maackii (Rupr.) Herder, L.          morrowii A. Gray, L. tatarica L. (family
     Caprifoliaceae), Lygodium japonicum (Thunb.) Sw. and L. microphyllum (Cav.) R. Br.
     (family Lygodiaceae), Leucaena leucocephala (Lam.) de Wit. (family Fabaceae), Lythrum
     salicariaL. (family Lythraceae), Mahonia bealei (Fortune) Carriere (family Berberidaceae),
     Melia azedarach L. (family Meliaceae), Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus family
 0   Poaceae), Mimosa pigra L. (family Fabaceae), Miscanthus sinensis Andersson family
     Poaceae), Morella faya Aiton (family Myricaceae), Nandina domestica Thunb. (family
     Berberidaceae), Onopordum acanthium L. (family Asteraceae), Opuntia stricta (Haw.) Haw
     (family   Cactaceae), Paulownia tomentosa (Thnb.)         Sieb. & Zucc. ex Zucc. (family
     Paulowniaceae), Phyllostachys aurea Carr. ex A.& C. Riviere (family Poaceae), Pinus
 5  pinaster Aiton (family Pinaceae),         Polygonum cuspidatum Siebold & Zucc          (family
     Polygonaceae), Poncirus trifoliata (L.) Raf (family Rutaceae), Prosopis glandulosa Torr.
     (family Fabaceae), Psidium cattleianum Sabine (family Myrtaceae), Pueraria montana
     (Lour.) Merr. (synonyms: P. lobata (Willd.) Ohwi, P. montana var. lobata (Willd.) Maesen
     & S. Almeida), family Fabaceae), Pyrus calleryana Decne. (family Rosaceae), Ranunculus
 '0 ficariaL. (family Ranunculaceae), Rhamnus cathartica L. (Rhamnaceae), Rosa bracteataJ.C.
     Wendl., R. laevigata, or R. multiflora Thunb., ex Murr. (family Rosaceae), Rubus ellipticus
     Sm. (family Rosaceae), Schedonorus phoenix (Scop.) Holub. (family Poaceae), Schinus
     terebinthifolius Raddi (family Anacardiaceae),       Securigera varia (L.)   Lassen (family
     Fabaceae), Solanium viarum Dunal (family Solanaceae), Solidago canadensis L. (family
25   Asteraceae), Sorhum halepense (L.) Pers. family Poaceae), Spathodea campanulataP.Beauv.
     (family Bignoniaceae), Sphagneticola trilobataL. (family Asteraceae), SpiraeajaponicaL. f.
     (family Rosaceae), Tamarix ramosissima Ledeb. (family Tamaricaceae), Striga asiatica (L.)
     Kuntze (family     Scrophulariaceae),   Taeniatherum caput-medusae (L.)      Nevski (family
     Poaceae), Triadica sebifera (L.) Small (synonym: Sepium sebiferum (L.) Roxb., family
30   Euphorbiaceae), Tussiliago farfara L. (family Asteraceae), Vernicia fordii (Hemsl.) Airy
     Shaw (family Euphorbiaceae), Vinca major L. or V. minor L. (family Apocynaceae), Vitex
     rotundifolia L. f. (family Lamiaceae), Ulex europaeus L. (family Fabaceae), Wisteria
    floribunda (Willd.) DC. or W. sinensis (Sims) DC. (family Fabaceae).
                                                    12

        WO 2014/182627                                                       PCT/US2014/036837
    [0032]         The invasive species may be any appropriate invasive insect. In some
    embodiments, the invasive insect is an ant species. In some embodiments, the invasive
    species Acrolepiopsis assectella (family        Acrolepiidae), Agrilus planipennis (family
    Buprestidae), Anomala orientalis (family Scarabaeidae), Anoplophora chinensis,             A.
 5  glabripennis (family Cerambycidae), Apis mellifera (family Apidae), Autographa gamma
    (family Noctuidae), Bactrocera oleae (family Tephritidae), Bombus terrestris          (family
    Apidae), Cactoblastis cactorum (family Pyralidae), Ceratitis capitata (family Tephritidae),
    Cinara cupressi (family        Aphididae),    Coptotermes formosanus, C.     gestroi  (family
    Rhinotermitidae), Curculio nucum, C. occidentis (family Curculionidae) , Diuraphis noxia
 0  (family Aphididae), Dryocosmus kuriphilus (family Cynipidae), Epiphyaspostvittana (family
    Tortricidae), Eristalis tenax (family Syrphidae), Halyomorpha halys (family Pentatomidae),
    Helicoverpa armigera (family Noctuidae), Homalodisca vitripennis (family Coccinellidae),
    Hylotrupes bajulus (family Cerambycidae), Incisitermes minor (family Kalotermitidae),
    Lasius neglectus or L. neoniger (family Formicidae), Leptinotarsa decemlineata (family
 5  Chrysomelidae), Leptoglossus occidentalis (family Coreidae), Linepithema humile (family
    Formicidae), Lymantria dispar dispar (family Erebidae), Mamestra brassicae (family
    Noctuidae), Monomorium destructor (family Formicidae), Monomorium pharaonis (family
    Formicidae), Myrmica rubra (family Formicidae), Nylanderia fulva (family Formicidae),
    Operophtera brumata (family         Geometridae),    Ostrinia nubilalis (family  Crambidae),
 '0 Oxycarenus     hyalinipennis     (family   Lygaeidae),   Pectinophora gossypiella     (family
    Gelechiidae), Pieris brassicae (family Pieridae), Polistes dominula (family Vespidae),
    Rhizotrogus     majalis    (family   Scarabaeidae),    Rhynchophorus    ferrugineus   (family
    Curculionidae),   Schistocerca nitens (family Acrididae),      Scirtothrips dorsalis (family
    Thripidae), Sirex noctilio (family Siricidae), Sitophilus zeamais (family Curculionidae),
25  Solenopsis invicta or S. saevissima         (family Formicidae),  Tetrops praeustus (family
    Cerambycidae), Thrips palmi (family Thripidae), Tremex fuscicornis (family Siricidae),
    Trogoderma granarium (family Dermestidae), Vespa velutina (family Vespidae), Vespula
    germanica (family Vespidae), Wasmannia auropunctata (family Formicidae), or Xyleborus
    glabratus(family Curculionidae).
30  [0033]         The natural pesticide may be applied in any appropriate manner. In some
    embodiments, a composition comprising the natural pesticides is applied to a water body and
    its adjacent wetland areas infested with salvinias. In some embodiments, a composition
                                                   13

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    comprising the natural pesticides is applied to a structure (e.g., boats) to control salvinias. In
    some embodiments, a composition comprising the natural pesticides is applied to a subject or
    structure (e.g., boats) to prevent infestation of salvinias. In some embodiments, a composition
    comprising the natural pesticide is applied topically.        In some embodiments, the natural
 5  pesticide is applied to the surface of the invasive plant.           In some embodiments, the
    composition is sprayed onto the invasive plant. In some embodiments, the composition is
    spread around the invasive plant.      In some embodiments, the composition is dissolved in
    water surrounding the invasive plant.
    [0034]           In some embodiments, the application of the natural pesticide may not add any
 0  exotic chemicals to the ecosystem of the invasive species.             In some embodiments, a
    composition comprising the natural pesticide can be prepared by chopping, shredding,
    blending, and/or pressing fresh matter of the target invasive species without solvent. In some
    embodiments, a composition comprising the natural pesticide can be prepared by using the
    water in the treating water bodies and/or their adjacent wetland areas as the solvent for the
 5  extraction of dried plant matter. In some embodiments, a composition comprising the natural
    pesticide can be added with non-bioactive surfactants.
    [0035]           The natural pesticide may be applied manually or mechanically. After the
    chopping, shredding, bending, and expression process, the residues from the juice production
    from fresh plant matter are usually not viable and are safe to be dumped back into the water
 ,0 body in a mechanical operation.
    [0036]           In some embodiments, the natural pesticide may be preferably applied to
    control the invasive plant soon after it is produced.         In some embodiments, the natural
    pesticide is best applied to control the invasive plant immediately or within several hours of
    its production. In some embodiments, the natural pesticide is preferably applied to control
25  the invasive plant within a week of its production.           In some embodiments, the natural
    pesticide especially in its aqueous form may be stored under refrigeration (4 C) for months
    and effectively inhibit the invasive species.      In some embodiments, the natural pesticide
    especially in its solid form may be stored under room temperature for months and can
    effectively inhibit the invasive species.
30  [0037]           In some embodiments, the natural pesticide may be applied alone. In some
    embodiments, the natural pesticide may be applied in combination with one or more
                                                     14

       WO 2014/182627                                                             PCT/US2014/036837
    secondary agents.     In some embodiments, the secondary agent may be formic acid, acetic
    acid, diquat (diquat dibromide), glyphosate, contact herbicides, other biocides, the salvinia
    weevil, or biocontrol agents.
    [0038]          The natural pesticide may be present in any appropriate concentration in the
 5  composition. In some embodiments, the composition contains 0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
    6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99,
    or 100% by weight or more of the natural pesticide. In some embodiments, the composition
    contains about 0.01 to about 0.5% by weight of the natural pesticide. In some embodiments,
    the composition contains about 0.1% by weight of endocide.
 0  [0039]          Also disclosed are the compositions as described herein, as well as kits
    containing the same.
    [0040]          When used in the context of a chemical group, "hydrogen" means -H;
    "hydroxy" means -OH; "oxo" means =0; "halo" means independently -F, -Cl, -Br or -I;
    "amino" means -NH 2 ; "hydroxyamino" means -NHOH; "nitro" means -NO 2 ; imino means
 5  =NH; "cyano" means -CN;            "isocyanate" means -N=C=O;          "azido" means -N 3 ; in a
    monovalent context "phosphate" means -OP(O)(OH)           2 or a deprotonated form thereof; in a
    divalent context "phosphate" means -OP(O)(OH)O-               or a deprotonated form thereof;
    "mercapto" means -SH; "thio" means =S; "sulfonyl" means -S(O)            2 -; and "sulfinyl" means
    -S(O)-.
 '0 [0041]          In the context of chemical formulas, the symbol "-" means a single bond,        "="
    means a double bond; and "-" means triple bond. The symbol           "----"  represents an optional
    bond, which if present is either single or double. The symbol "==" represents a single bond
    or a double bond.      Thus, for example, the structure            includes the structures   0 ,
                            and       .  As will be understood by a person of skill in the art, no one
25  such ring atom forms part of more than one double bond. The symbol " flA^ ", when drawn
    perpendicularly across a bond indicates a point of attachment of the group. It is noted that the
    point of attachment is typically only identified in this manner for larger groups in order to
    assist the reader in rapidly and unambiguously identifying a point of attachment. The symbol
            means a single bond where the group attached to the thick end of the wedge is "out of
                                                     15

      WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
   the page." The symbol """NI" means a single bond where the group attached to the thick end
   of the wedge is "into the page".       The symbol "Ofv^V"    means a single bond where the
   conformation (e.g., either R or S) or the geometry is undefined (e.g., either E or Z).
   [0042]          Any undefined valency on an atom of a structure shown in this application
 5 implicitly represents a hydrogen atom bonded to the atom. When a group "R" is depicted as
   a "floating group" on a ring system, for example, in the formula:
                                              R
   [0043]          then R may replace any hydrogen atom attached to any of the ring atoms,
   including a depicted, implied, or expressly defined hydrogen, so long as a stable structure is
 0 formed. When a group "R" is depicted as a "floating group" on a fused ring system, as for
   example in the formula:
                                        (R)
                                              N
                                              H
   [0044]          then R may replace any hydrogen attached to any of the ring atoms of either of
   the fused rings unless specified otherwise.         Replaceable hydrogens include depicted
 5 hydrogens (e.g., the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen in the formula above), implied
   hydrogens (e.g., a hydrogen of the formula above that is not shown but understood to be
   present), expressly defined hydrogens, and optional hydrogens whose presence depends on
   the identity of a ring atom (e.g., a hydrogen attached to group X, when X equals -CH-), so
   long as a stable structure is formed. In the example depicted, R may reside on either the 5
20 membered or the 6-membered ring of the fused ring system. In the formula above, the
   subscript letter "y" immediately following the group "R" enclosed in parentheses, represents
   a numeric variable. Unless specified otherwise, this variable can be 0, 1, 2, or any integer
   greater than 2, only limited by the maximum number of replaceable hydrogen atoms of the
   ring or ring system.
25 [0045]          For the groups and classes below, the following parenthetical subscripts
   further define the group/class as follows: "(Cn)" defines the exact number (n) of carbon
   atoms in the group/class. "(C:n)" defines the maximum number (n) of carbon atoms that can
                                                 16

       WO 2014/182627                                                            PCT/US2014/036837
    be in the group/class, with the minimum number as small as possible for the group in
    question, e.g., it is understood that the minimum number of carbon atoms in the group
    "alkenyl(css)" or the class "alkene(css)" is two. For example, "alkoxy(c!io)" designates those
    alkoxy groups having from 1 to 10 carbon atoms (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10, or any
 5  range derivable therein (e.g., 3 to 10 carbon atoms). (Cn-n') defines both the minimum (n)
    and maximum number (n') of carbon atoms in the group. Similarly, "alkyl(c2 -io)" designates
    those alkyl groups having from 2 to 10 carbon atoms (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10, or any
    range derivable therein (e.g., 3 to 10 carbon atoms)).
    [0046]          The term "saturated" as used herein means the compound or group so
 0  modified has no carbon-carbon double and no carbon-carbon triple bonds, except as noted
    below. The term does not preclude carbon-heteroatom multiple bonds, for example a carbon
    oxygen double bond or a carbon nitrogen double bond. Moreover, it does not preclude a
    carbon-carbon    double bond that may occur           as part of keto-enol tautomerism         or
    imine/enamine tautomerism.
 5  [0047]          The term "aliphatic" when used without the "substituted" modifier signifies
    that the compound/group so modified is an acyclic or cyclic, but non-aromatic hydrocarbon
    compound or group. In aliphatic compounds/groups, the carbon atoms can be joined together
    in   straight  chains,  branched    chains,   or non-aromatic      rings (alicyclic).   Aliphatic
    compounds/groups can be saturated, that is joined by single bonds (alkanes/alkyl), or
 '0 unsaturated, with one or more double bonds (alkenes/alkenyl) or with one or more triple
    bonds (alkynes/alkynyl).      When the term "aliphatic" is used without the "substituted"
    modifier only carbon and hydrogen atoms are present.         When the term is used with the
    "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH,
    -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2 , -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3,
25  C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3)2, -C(O)NH 2, -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O)      2 NH 2 .
    [0048]          The term "alkyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to a
    monovalent saturated aliphatic group with a carbon atom as the point of attachment, a linear
    or branched, cyclo, cyclic or acyclic structure, and no atoms other than carbon and hydrogen.
    Thus, as used herein cycloalkyl is a subset of alkyl. The groups -CH      3 (Me), -CH 2CH 3 (Et),
30  -CH 2CH 2CH 3 (n-Pr), -CH(CH 3) 2 (iso-Pr), -CH(CH 2) 2 (cyclopropyl), -CH 2CH 2 CH 2CH 3 (n
    Bu), -CH(CH 3)CH 2CH 3 (sec-butyl), -CH 2CH(CH 3) 2 (iso-butyl), -C(CH 3) 3 (tert-butyl),
    -CH 2C(CH 3) 3 (neo-pentyl), cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, and cyclohexylmethyl are
                                                    17

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    non-limiting examples of alkyl groups.        The term "alkanediyl" when used without the
    "substituted" modifier refers to a divalent saturated aliphatic group, with one or two saturated
    carbon atom(s) as the point(s) of attachment, a linear or branched, cyclo, cyclic or acyclic
    structure, no carbon-carbon double or triple bonds, and no atoms other than carbon and
 5  hydrogen.        The    groups,   -CH 2-     (methylene),    -CH 2CH 2-,     -CH 2 C(CH 3) 2CH 2-,
    -CH 2CH 2CH 2 -, and                 , are non-limiting examples of alkanediyl groups.        The
    term "alkylidene" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to the divalent group
    =CRR' in which R and R' are independently hydrogen, alkyl, or R and R' are taken together
    to represent an alkanediyl having at least two carbon atoms.          Non-limiting examples of
 0  alkylidene groups include: =CH 2 , =CH(CH 2CH 3), and =C(CH 3) 2 . When any of these terms is
    used with the "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom has been independently
    replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 ,
    -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3 , -N(CH 3)2 , -C(O)NH 2 , -OC(O)CH 3 , or -S(O) 2 NH2 . The following
    groups are non-limiting examples of substituted alkyl groups: -CH 2OH, -CH 2Cl, -CF 3 ,
 5  -CH 2CN, -CH 2C(O)OH, -CH 2 C(O)OCH 3 , -CH 2C(O)NH 2 , -CH 2 C(O)CH 3, -CH 2 0CH3,
    -CH 20C(O)CH 3, -CH 2NH 2, -CH 2N(CH 3) 2, and -CH 2CH 2 Cl.          The term "haloalkyl" is a
    subset of substituted alkyl, in which one or more hydrogen atoms has been substituted with a
    halo group and no other atoms aside from carbon, hydrogen and halogen are present. The
    group, -CH 2 Cl is a non-limiting examples of a haloalkyl.           An "alkane" refers to the
 '0 compound H-R, wherein R is alkyl. The term "fluoroalkyl" is a subset of substituted alkyl,
    in which one or more hydrogen has been substituted with a fluoro group and no other atoms
    aside from carbon, hydrogen and fluorine are present.          The groups, -CH 2F, -CF 3 , and
    -CH 2CF 3 are non-limiting examples of fluoroalkyl groups.           An "alkane" refers to the
    compound H-R, wherein R is alkyl.
25  [0049]         The term "alkenyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to an
    monovalent unsaturated aliphatic group with a carbon atom as the point of attachment, a
    linear or branched, cyclo, cyclic or acyclic structure, at least one nonaromatic carbon-carbon
    double bond, no carbon-carbon triple bonds, and no atoms other than carbon and hydrogen.
    Non-limiting examples of alkenyl groups include: -CH=CH               2  (vinyl), -CH=CHCH 3 ,
30  -CH=CHCH 2CH 3 , -CH 2CH=CH 2 (allyl), -CH 2 CH=CHCH 3 , and -CH=CH-C              6H5 . The term
    "alkenediyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to a divalent unsaturated
    aliphatic group, with two carbon atoms as points of attachment, a linear or branched, cyclo,
                                                    18

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    cyclic or acyclic structure, at least one nonaromatic carbon-carbon double bond, no carbon
    carbon triple bonds, and no atoms other than carbon and hydrogen. The groups, -CH=CH-,
    -CH=C(CH 3)CH 2-,      -CH=CHCH 2 -,      and                , are non-limiting examples of
    alkenediyl groups. When these terms are used with the "substituted" modifier one or more
 5  hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 ,
    -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3)2 , -C(O)NH 2,
    -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O) 2NH 2 . The groups, -CH=CHF, -CH=CHCl and -CH=CHBr, are non
    limiting examples of substituted alkenyl groups. An "alkene" refers to the compound H-R,
    wherein R is alkenyl.
 0  [0050]         The term "alkynyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to an
    monovalent unsaturated aliphatic group with a carbon atom as the point of attachment, a
    linear or branched, cyclo, cyclic or acyclic structure, at least one carbon-carbon triple bond,
    and no atoms other than carbon and hydrogen. As used herein, the term alkynyl does not
    preclude the presence of one or more non-aromatic carbon-carbon double bonds. The groups,
 5  -C-CH, -C-CCH 3, and -CH 2C-CCH 3, are non-limiting examples of alkynyl groups. When
    alkynyl is used with the "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom has been
    independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN,
    -SH, -OCH 3, -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3 , -N(CH 3)2, -C(O)NH 2 , -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O) 2 NH2 .
    An "alkyne" refers to the compound H-R, wherein R is alkynyl.
 '0 [0051]         The term "aryl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to a
    monovalent unsaturated aromatic group with an aromatic carbon atom as the point of
    attachment, said carbon atom forming part of a one or more six-membered aromatic ring
    structure, wherein the ring atoms are all carbon, and wherein the group consists of no atoms
    other than carbon and hydrogen. If more than one ring is present, the rings may be fused or
25  unfused. As used herein, the term does not preclude the presence of one or more alkyl group
    (carbon number limitation permitting) attached to the first aromatic ring or any additional
    aromatic ring present.       Non-limiting examples of aryl groups include phenyl (Ph),
    methylphenyl, (dimethyl)phenyl, -C 6H4 CH 2 CH 3 (ethylphenyl), naphthyl, and the monovalent
    group derived from biphenyl.       The term "arenediyl" when used without the "substituted"
30  modifier refers to a divalent aromatic group, with two aromatic carbon atoms as points of
    attachment, said carbon atoms forming part of one or more six-membered aromatic ring
                                                   19

       WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
   structure(s) wherein the ring atoms are all carbon, and wherein the monovalent group consists
   of no atoms other than carbon and hydrogen. As used herein, the term does not preclude the
   presence of one or more alkyl group (carbon number limitation permitting) attached to the
   first aromatic ring or any additional aromatic ring present. If more than one ring is present,
 5 the rings may be fused or unfused. Non-limiting examples of arenediyl groups include:
                                                                          H0
                                     /          /                     and
   [0052]          When these terms are used with the "substituted" modifier one or more
   hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 ,
   -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3)2 , -C(O)NH 2,
 0 -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O) 2 NH 2 . An "arene" refers to the compound H-R, wherein R is aryl.
   [0053]          The term "aralkyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to the
   monovalent group -alkanediyl-aryl, in which the terms alkanediyl and aryl are each used in a
   manner consistent with the definitions provided above. Non-limiting examples of aralkyls
   are: phenylmethyl (benzyl, Bn) and 2-phenyl-ethyl.          When the term is used with the
 5 "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom from the alkanediyl and/or the aryl has
   been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 ,
   -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3, -C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3 )2 , -C(O)NH 2, -OC(O)CH 3 , or
   S(O) 2NH 2 . Non-limiting examples of substituted aralkyls are: (3-chlorophenyl)-methyl, and
   2-chloro-2-phenyl-eth- 1-yl.
20 [0054]          The term "heteroaryl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to a
   monovalent aromatic group with an aromatic carbon atom or nitrogen atom as the point of
   attachment, said carbon atom or nitrogen atom forming part of one or more aromatic ring
   structures wherein at least one of the ring atoms is nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur, and wherein
   the heteroaryl group consists of no atoms other than carbon, hydrogen, aromatic nitrogen,
25 aromatic oxygen and aromatic sulfur.        As used herein, the term does not preclude the
   presence of one or more alkyl, aryl, and/or aralkyl groups (carbon number limitation
   permitting) attached to the aromatic ring or aromatic ring system. If more than one ring is
   present, the rings may be fused or unfused.       Non-limiting examples of heteroaryl groups
   include furanyl, imidazolyl, indolyl, indazolyl (Im), isoxazolyl, methylpyridinyl, oxazolyl,
30 phenylpyridinyl,    pyridinyl,   pyrrolyl,   pyrimidinyl,   pyrazinyl,  quinolyl,  quinazolyl,
                                                  20

        WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    quinoxalinyl,   triazinyl, tetrazolyl,    thiazolyl,   thienyl,  and    triazolyl.     The    term
    "heteroarenediyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to an divalent aromatic
    group, with two aromatic carbon atoms, two aromatic nitrogen atoms, or one aromatic carbon
    atom and one aromatic nitrogen atom as the two points of attachment, said atoms forming
 5  part of one or more aromatic ring structure(s) wherein at least one of the ring atoms is
    nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur, and wherein the divalent group consists of no atoms other than
    carbon, hydrogen, aromatic nitrogen, aromatic oxygen and aromatic sulfur. As used herein,
    the term does not preclude the presence of one or more alkyl, aryl, and/or aralkyl groups
    (carbon number limitation permitting) attached to the aromatic ring or aromatic ring system.
 0  If more than one ring is present, the rings may be fused or unfused. Non-limiting examples
    of heteroarenediyl groups include:
                                    N       -                       N=\
                                                 H           and         Nf
    [0055]         When these terms are used with the "substituted" modifier one or more
    hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 ,
 5  -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3)2 , -C(O)NH 2 ,
    -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O) 2 NH 2 .
    [0056]         The term "heterocycloalkyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier
    refers to a monovalent non-aromatic group with a carbon atom or nitrogen atom as the point
    of attachment, said carbon atom or nitrogen atom forming part of one or more non-aromatic
 '0 ring structures wherein at least one of the ring atoms is nitrogen, oxygen or sulfur, and
    wherein the heterocycloalkyl group consists of no atoms other than carbon, hydrogen,
    nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. As used herein, the term does not preclude the presence of one
    or more alkyl groups (carbon number limitation permitting) attached to the ring or ring
    system. If more than one ring is present, the rings may be fused or unfused. Non-limiting
25  examples of heterocycloalkyl groups include aziridinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, piperidinyl,
    piperazinyl,   morpholinyl,    thiomorpholinyl,      tetrahydrofuranyl,     tetrahydrothiofuranyl,
    tetrahydropyranyl,    and pyranyl.     When the term "heterocycloalkyl"            used with the
    "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH,
    -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2 , -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3,
30  C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3)2, -C(O)NH 2, -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O) 2 NH2 .
                                                    21

        WO 2014/182627                                                              PCT/US2014/036837
    [0057]          The term "acyl" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to the
    group -C(O)R, in which R is a hydrogen, alkyl, aryl, aralkyl or heteroaryl, as those terms are
    defined    above.      The    groups,    -CHO,      -C(O)CH    3   (acetyl,   Ac),     -C(O)CH 2CH 3 ,
    -C(O)CH 2 CH 2CH 3,     -C(O)CH(CH 3) 2,      -C(O)CH(CH 2) 2,      -C(O)C 6H5 ,      -C(O)C 6H 4CH 3,
 5  -C(O)CH 2 C6H5 , -C(O)(imidazolyl) are non-limiting examples of acyl groups. A "thioacyl"
    is defined in an analogous manner, except that the oxygen atom of the group -C(O)R has
    been replaced with a sulfur atom, -C(S)R.         When either of these terms are used with the
    "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom (including the hydrogen atom directly
    attached the carbonyl or thiocarbonyl group) has been independently replaced by-OH, -F,
 0  -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2 , -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3, -OCH 2 CH 3, -C(O)CH 3,
    -N(CH 3) 2 , -C(O)NH 2, -OC(O)CH 3, or -S(O)        2 NH 2 . The groups, -C(O)CH 2 CF 3, -CO 2 H
    (carboxyl),   -CO 2 CH 3   (methylcarboxyl),    -CO 2 CH 2CH 3, -C(O)NH        2    (carbamoyl),   and
    -CON(CH 3) 2 , are non-limiting examples of substituted acyl groups.
    [0058]          The term "alkoxy" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to the
 5  group -OR, in which R is an alkyl, as that term is defined above. Non-limiting examples of
    alkoxy    groups   include:    -OCH   3   (methoxy),    -OCH 2CH 3      (ethoxy),     -OCH 2 CH 2CH 3 ,
    -OCH(CH 3) 2 (isopropoxy), -OCH(CH 2) 2, -0-cyclopentyl, and -0-cyclohexyl.                 The terms
    "alkenyloxy", "alkynyloxy", "aryloxy", "aralkoxy", "heteroaryloxy", and "acyloxy", when
    used without the "substituted" modifier, refers to groups, defined as -OR, in which R is
 '0 alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl, and acyl, respectively.         The term "alkoxydiyl"
    refers     to    the     divalent      group     -O-alkanediyl-,          -O-alkanediyl-O-,          or
    -alkanediyl-O-alkanediyl-.        The term "alkylthio" and "acylthio" when used without the
    "substituted" modifier refers to the group -SR, in which R is an alkyl and acyl, respectively.
    When any of these terms is used with the "substituted" modifier one or more hydrogen atom
25  has been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2 , -N0          2 , -C0 2 H, -C0 2 CH 3 ,
    -CN,    -SH,   -OCH 3 , -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3 , -N(CH 3 )2 , -C(O)NH 2, -OC(O)CH 3, or
    S(O) 2NH 2 . The term "alcohol" corresponds to an alkane, as defined above, wherein at least
    one of the hydrogen atoms has been replaced with a hydroxy group.
    [0059]          The term "alkylamino" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to
30  the group -NHR, in which R is an alkyl, as that term is defined above.                   Non-limiting
    examples     of alkylamino      groups include:     -NHCH    3   and   -NHCH 2 CH 3.        The term
    "dialkylamino" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers to the group -NRR', in
                                                     22

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    which R and R' can be the same or different alkyl groups, or R and R' can be taken together
    to represent an alkanediyl.        Non-limiting examples of dialkylamino groups include:
    -N(CH 3 ) 2 , -N(CH 3)(CH 2 CH 3),    and    N-pyrrolidinyl.      The   terms   "alkoxyamino",
    "alkenylamino",     "alkynylamino",    "arylamino",    "aralkylamino", "heteroarylamino",    and
 5  "alkylsulfonylamino" when used without the "substituted" modifier, refers to groups, defined
    as -NHR, in which R is alkoxy, alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaryl, and alkylsulfonyl,
    respectively. A non-limiting example of an arylamino group is -NHC 6H5 . The term "amido"
    (acylamino), when used without the "substituted" modifier, refers to the group -NHR, in
    which R is acyl, as that term is defined above. A non-limiting example of an amido group is
 0  -NHC(O)CH 3. The term "alkylimino" when used without the "substituted" modifier refers
    to the divalent group =NR, in which R is an alkyl, as that term is defined above. The term
    "alkylaminodiyl" refers to the divalent group -NH-alkanediyl-, -NH-alkanediyl-NH-, or
    -alkanediyl-NH-alkanediyl-.        When any of these terms is used with the "substituted"
    modifier one or more hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br,
 5  -I,  -NH 2 , -NO 2 , -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN,       -SH,    -OCH 3, -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3 ,
    -N(CH 3) 2 , -C(O)NH 2, -OC(O)CH 3 , or -S(O)       2 NH 2 .  The groups -NHC(O)OCH       3  and
    -NHC(O)NHCH       3 are non-limiting examples of substituted amido groups.
    [0060]         The terms "alkylsulfonyl"       and "alkylsulfinyl"    when used without the
    "substituted" modifier refers to the groups -S(O) 2 R and -S(O)R, respectively, in which R is
 '0 an alkyl, as that term is defined above.      The terms "alkenylsulfonyl", "alkynylsulfonyl",
    "arylsulfonyl", "aralkylsulfonyl", and "heteroarylsulfonyl", are defined in an analogous
    manner.     When any of these terms is used with the "substituted" modifier one or more
    hydrogen atom has been independently replaced by -OH, -F, -Cl, -Br, -I, -NH 2, -NO 2 ,
    -CO 2 H, -CO 2 CH 3 , -CN, -SH, -OCH 3, -OCH 2CH 3 , -C(O)CH 3, -N(CH 3)2, -C(O)NH 2,
25  OC(O)CH 3 , or -S(O) 2NH 2.
    [0061]         As used herein, a "chiral auxiliary" refers to a removable chiral group that is
    capable of influencing the stereoselectivity of a reaction.      Persons of skill in the art are
    familiar with such compounds, and many are commercially available.
    [0062]         The term "invasive species" means a species (e.g., plants and animals
30  including insects) that is either native or non-native (exotic) to the ecosystem and whose
    presence or introduction causes or likely causes economical or environmental harm or harm
    to human health.
                                                    23

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    [0063]           "Invasive plant species" or "invasive plant" means either a non-native (exotic)
    or native invasive plant species.
    [0064]           "Invasive aquatic species" or "aquatic invasive species" means an invasive
    species that has living in, on, or next to water.
 5  [0065]           "Invasive aquatic plant" means an invasive plant species that has adapted to
    living in, on, or next to water, and that can grow either submerged or partially submerged in
    water.
    [0066]           "Water body" or "body of water" means any significant accumulation of water
    on a planet's surface, including but not limited to lake, pond, river, canal, creek, stream,
 0  brook, channel, ditch, bay, bayou, swamp, marsh, slough, bog, fen, wetland, harbor, inlet,
    lagoon, puddle, reservoir, strait, spring, swimming pool, or any container or structure with
    permanent or seasonal water.
    [0067]           "Salvinias"   means aquatic or semi-aquatic      fern species of the order
    Salviniales, including families Salviniaceae Reichenbach (Salvinia S6guier), Azollaceae
 5  Wettstein (Azolla Lamarck) (sometimes, Azolla is treated as a genus of the family
    Salviniaceae), and Marsileaceae Mirbel (Marsilea L., PilulariaL., and Regnellidium Lindm).
    [0068]           "Primary stage" or "primary growth stage" of giant salvinia means the plant
    growth occurs in the early stages of an infestation. The small, flat, and oval-shaped floating
    leaves lie in directare less than 15 mm in width.
 '0 [0069]            "Secondary stage" or "secondary growth stage" of giant salvinia means the
    plant growth occurs in the secondary stages of an infestation. The floating leaves become
    slightly cupped and are more than 15 mm but less than 50 mm in width.
    [0070]           "Tertiary stage" or "tertiary growth stage" of giant salvinia means the plant
    growth occurs in the mature stages of an infestation. The floating leaves become tightly
25  folded and are more than 50 mm in width when forced open. Tertiary plants may form a
    multilayered mat on the surface of the infested water body.
    [0071]           "Gland" means a cell, group of cells, or organ producing a secretion.
    "Exocrine gland" means any gland that secretes its products through a duct onto an epithelial
    surface.
                                                     24

        WO 2014/182627                                                            PCT/US2014/036837
    [0072]           "Trichome" refers to "glandular trichome" or plant gland in this invention and
    means glandular unicellular or multicellular appendages on the surface of various plant
    organs.
    [0073]           "Effective" amount or concentration means that amount or concentration
 5  which, when applied to a place or subject for controlling invasive species, is sufficient to
    affect the growth, reproduction, or spread of the species.
    [0074]           "Control" or "controlling" means inhibiting growth, reproduction, or spread of
    an invasive species in a place or subject. As used herein, the term "inhibition" of the species
    also refers to slowing, interrupting, arresting or stopping the species and does not necessarily
 0  indicate a total elimination of the species.
    [0075]           Some abbreviations used herein are as follows: 1H-NMR is proton nuclear
    magnetic resonance, 1C-NMR is carbon nuclear magnetic resonance, ADEQUATE                        is
    adequate sensitivity double-quantum spectroscopy, Al is aluminum, Ag is silver, B is boron,
    Ba is barium, Ca is cacium, As is arsenic, Cd is cadmium, HCOOH is formic acid, CHCl 3 is
 5  chroroform, CH 2 Cl 2 is dichloromethane or methylene chloride, CH 3 COOH is acetic acid,
    CH 3CN is acetonitrile, Co is cobalt, COSY is correlation spectroscopy, Cr is chromium, Cu
    is copper, DMSO is dimethyl sulfoxide, EC50 means half maximal effective concentration,
    EtOH is ethanol, FAB MS is fast atom bombardment mass spectroscopy, Fe is iron, g is
    gram(s), gal is gallon(s), Glc is glucose, h is hour(s), H 2 0 is water, Hg is mercury, HMBC is
 '0 heteronuclear multiple-bond correlation, HPLC is high performance liquid chromatography,
    HRESIMS       is   High-resolution   electrospray   ionization    mass    spectrometry,   HSQC is
    heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectroscopy, K is potassium, kg is kilogram(s), kPa
    is kilopascal(s), ICP is inductively coupled plasma, L is liter(s), LD50 is defined as the dose
    required to kill half of the exposed fire ants, LD 9 0 is defined as the dose required to kill 90%
25  of the exposed fire ants, m is meter(s),        MeOH is methanol, mg is milligram, min is
    minute(s), Mg is magnesium, mL is milliliter(s), mm is millimeter(s), Mn is manganese, Mo
    is molybdenum, Na is sodium, NCPC is National Center for Pharmaceutical Crops of the
    Arthur Temple College of Forestry and Agriculture at Stephen F. Austin State University in
    Nacogdoches, Texas, USA, NMR is nuclear magnetic resonance, P is phosphorus, Pb is lead,
30  pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution, psi is pounds per square
    inch, ppt is parts per thousand, S is sulfur, Se is selenium, see is second(s), RT is room
    temperature (approximately at 20 'C), "tea bag" is a bag of ground dried plant matter, "tea
                                                     25

       WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    brick" is comprsssed brick or pie of ground dried plan matter without bag, Zn is zinc, gg is
    microgram(s), gL is microliter(s), and gM is micromolar(s).
    [0076]          The terms "about" or "approximately" are defined as being close to as
    understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, and in one non-limiting embodiment the terms
 5  are defined to be within 10%, preferably within 5%, more preferably within 1%, and most
    preferably within 0.5%.
    [0077]          The use of the word "a" or "an" when used in conjunction with the term
    "comprising" may mean "one," but it is also consistent with the meaning of "one or more,"
    "at least one," and "one or more than one."
 0  [0078]          The words "comprising" (and any form of comprising, such as "comprise" and
    "comprises"), "having" (and any form of having, such as "have" and "has"), "including" (and
    any form of including, such as "includes" and "include") or "containing" (and any form of
    containing, such as "contains" and "contain") are inclusive or open-ended and do not exclude
    additional, unrecited elements or method steps.
 5  [0079]          The compositions and methods for their use can "comprise," "consist
    essentially of," or "consist of' any of the ingredients or steps disclosed throughout the
    specification. Compositions and methods "consisting essentially of" any of the ingredients or
    steps disclosed limits the scope of the claim to the specified materials or steps which do not
    materially affect the basic and novel characteristic of the claimed invention.
 '0 [0080]          It is contemplated that any embodiment discussed in this specification can be
    implemented with respect to any method or composition of the invention, and vice versa.
    Furthermore, compositions of the invention can be used to achieve methods of the invention.
    [0081]          Other objects, features and advantages of the present invention will become
    apparent from the following detailed description. It should be understood, however, that the
25  detailed description and the specific examples, while indicating specific embodiments of the
    invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various changes and modifications
    within the spirit and scope of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art
    from this detailed description.
                                                   26

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0082]          The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included
    to further demonstrate certain aspects of the present invention. The invention may be better
    understood by reference to one or more of these drawings in combination with the detailed
 5  description of specific embodiments presented herein.
    [0083]          FIG. 1 - The scheme shows the discovery and development process and
    related experiments of endocides from invasive giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) as described
    herein (inactive: not able to inhibit the growth of giant salvinia at all; active: able to fully
    inhibit the growth of giant salvinia at high concentrations; very active: able to fully inhibit the
 0  growth of giant salvinia at low concentrations).
    [0084]          FIG. 2 - Salvinia species are rootless, free-floating aquatic ferns and they are
    well-known for their extremely water-repellent floating leaves. On the upper surfaces of the
    floating leaves of S. molesta, four multicellular glandular trichomes (called "trichomes") have
    their apical cells connected to form egg-beater structures. The three short arrows point to the
 5  egg-beater structures of trichomes which were removed using a blade. The root-like
    submerged leaves are highly branched with multicellular trichomes on which sporocarps
    develop.
    [0085]          FIG. 3 - Effects of dry plant matter of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) ("tea
    bag") on the growth of giant salvinia in containers during the four weeks of greenhouse
 '0 experiments (with bars presenting standard deviations).
    [0086]          FIG. 4 - The photograph shows that giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) plants
    were totally eliminated by the dried plant matter of giant salvinia (a bag of 400 g plant matter
    was placed in the bottom of each of the containers on the bottom row) by the end of the
    second week of experiments in the greenhouse in comparison with controls (containers on the
25  top row); there was no new growth within the six months of observation.
    [0087]          FIG. 5 - The photograph shows that the root-like submerged leaves of giant
    salvinia (Salvinia molesta) were totally damaged before the floating leaves turning into
    brown and dead after the the "tea bag" treatment.
    [0088]          FIG. 6 - The photograph shows the wilted trichomes on the upper surfaces of
30  the floating leaves of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) caused by the water extract from "tea
                                                    27

       WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
   bag" (left) in comparison with those in the normal plant growth condition (right). The wilted
   trichomes released autotoxic compounds and enhanced the endocidal function of "tea bag".
   [0089]          FIG. 7 - The photograph shows that all giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta)
   plants were eliminated within the 13 weeks after the treatment with water extract of the dried
 5 matter of giant salvinia. The plants in the top row served as control without any treatment,
   and each plant has developed significant new growth. The plants in the middle row were
   treated with 0.01% water extract of giant salvinia, and some plants have developed new
   growth. The plants in the bottom row were treated with 0.l1% water extract of giant salvinia,
   and all plants are dead and no new growth was developed from any plants during the eight
 0 months of observation. The three columns represent three replications of the experiment.
   [0090]          FIG. 8 - The photograph showing growth performance of giant salvinia
   (Salvinia molesta) plants two weeks after the treatments of water extract of the dried matter
   of giant salvinia and its three fractions in comparison with those in the control group. Top
   row: plants cultured in water without any treatment (control); 2nd row: plants were treated
 5 with 0.1% MeOH fraction (all plants dead); 3rd row: plants were treated with 0.1%
   MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 (1:1) fraction; 4th row: plants were treated with 0.l1% H2 0 fraction; and the
   bottom row: 0.1% water extract of giant salvinia. The three columns represent three
   replications of the experiment.
   [0091]          FIG. 9 - Structure of bioactive salviniside II as endocide isolated from giant
 0 salvinia (Salvinia molesta).
   [0092]          FIG. 10 - 1H and "C-NMR Data (6) of salviniside II.
   [0093]          FIG. 11 - Giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) can be totally eliminated by
   salviniside II isolated from giant salvinia within two weeks (with bars presenting standard
   deviations).
25 [0094]          FIG. 12 - HPLC profiles of water extract from the dried matter of giant salvinia
   (Salvinia molesta) on the preparation day (upper) and storage as the powder at RT for 26
   weeks (bottom) using Agilent 1100 HPLC system (Eclipse XDB-C18 column (4.6 x 150 mm,
   3.5 pM) at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min, detection wavelength              =  254 nm, the extract
   concentration: 24 kg/L in fresh weight, and the injection volume: 3 gL). The stored powder
30 had approximately 70% of the total peak area of that in the newly prepared extract.
                                                  28

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    [0095]          FIG. 13 - HPLC profiles of 5% H 2 0      fraction of water extract from the dried
    matter of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) on the preparation day (upper) and stored in
    refrigerator (4 C) for 26 weeks (bottom) using Agilent 1100 HPLC system (Eclipse XDB
    C18 column (4.6 x 150 mm, 3.5 pM) at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min, detection wavelength            =
 5  254 nm, the extract concentration: 16 kg/L in fresh weight, and the injection volume: 50 gL).
    The stored H 2 0 fraction still had approximately 90% of the chemical contents of the newly
    prepared sample.
    [0096]          FIG. 14 - The growth of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) can be successfully
    controlled by the endocide treatments with or without surfactants. By the end of the third
 0  week, all plants treated with either "tea bag" of the dried matter, water extract of the dried
    matter with surfactants, or H 20 fraction of the water extract from the dried matter with
    surfactants were dead and there was no new growth during the following four months of
    observation. By the end of the 4 th week, over 90% or 95% of the plants treated with water
    extract and H 2 0 fraction of the water extract were dead, respectively (with bars presenting
 5  standard deviations).
    [0097]          FIG. 15 - The photograph shows that all giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta)
    plants were eliminated within three weeks after the treatment using a "tea bag" of the dried
    matter of giant salvinia (right) in comparison with control (left).
    [0098]          FIG. 16 - The growth of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) can be successfully
 '0 controlled by the extract juice from the fresh matter of giant salvinia by hydraulic press. After
    two treatments, the hydraulic extract juice with surfactants totally eliminated the giant
    salvinia within four weeks and there was no new growth thereafter (with bars presenting
    standard deviations).
    [0099]          FIG. 17 - The photograph shows that all giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta)
25  plants were eliminated within four weeks after the treatment with hydraulic extract juice from
    the fresh matter of giant salvinia (right) in comparison with the control (left).
    [00100]         FIG. 18 -The photograph shows that the trichomes on the upper surfaces of
    the floating leaves of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) were significantly damaged by the
    hydraulic extract (right) in comparison with those in the control (left). The wilted trichomes
30  caused by the hydraulic extract released autotoxic chemicals and enhanced the endocidal
    function of the hydraulic extract.
                                                    29

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    [00101]          FIG. 19 - The photograph shows that there was no plant survival or new
    growth in the cultured residues from the juice production from fresh plant matter of giant
    salvinia (Salvinia molesta) within six weeks (white dots are living least duckweed (Lemna
    minuta)).
 5  [00102]          FIG. 20 - The diagram shows that both water extract from the dried matter
    and hydraulic extract from the fresh matter of giant salvinia with surfactants effectively
    inhibited the giant salvinia after two treatments (with bars presenting standard deviations).
    [00103]          FIG. 21 - HPLC profiles of water extract from the dried matter of giant salvinia
    (Salvinia molesta) (upper) and hydraulic extract from fresh matter of giant salvinia (bottom)
 0  by using an Agilent 1100 HPLC system coupled to an Agilent 1100 diode array detector, and
    an Eclipse XDB-C18 column (4.6 x 150 mm, 3.5 [M) at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min. A
    gradient elution was performed by using H 2 0 (A) and CH 3 CN (B) as mobile phases. Elution
    was performed according to the following conditions: 2% B at time 0, linear increase to 98%
    B in 22 min, and hold 98% B for 8 min. The column temperature was maintained at 23 'C.
 5  The HPLC chromatogram was standardized on retention times and peak intensities of the
    peaks observed at a wavelength of 254 nm. The concentration of both water extracts and
    hydraulic extract were 2 kg fresh plant matter/L. The injection volume was 50 gL for all
    analyses.
    [00104]          FIG. 22 - HPLC profiles of water extract from the dried matter of giant salvinia
 '0 (Salvinia molesta) (upper) and hydraulic extract from the fresh matter of giant salvinia
    (bottom) by using Agilent 1260 HPLC system coupled to an Agilent 1260 diode array
    detector, and an Acclaim HILIC-10 column (4.6 x 150 mm, 3.0 [M) at a flow rate of 0.6
    mL/min. The mobile phase was CH 3CN/H 2 0 (65:35, v/v). The column temperature was
    maintained at 23 'C. The HPLC chromatogram was standardized on retention times and peak
25  intensities of the peaks observed at a wavelength of 230 nm. The concentration of both water
    extracts and hydraulic extract were 40 kg fresh plant matter/L. The injection volume was 20
    gL for all analyses.
    [00105]          FIG. 23 - The diagram shows that the hydraulic extracts are more stable when
    stored under refrigeration (4 C) than that at RT. The total peak area of hydraulic extract
30  stored at refrigeration (4 C) for one, two, and 14 weeks contained 7 0%, 66%, and 60% of the
                                                    30

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    total chemical contents in the newly prepared extract, respectively (with bars presenting
    standard deviations).
    [00106]         FIG. 24 - HPLC profiles of hydraulic extract from the fresh matter of giant
    salvinia (Salvinia molesta) on the preparation day (upper) and stored at refrigerator (4 'C) for
 5  14 weeks (bottom) by using Agilent 1100 HPLC system (Eclipse XDB-C18 column (4.6 x
    150 mm, 3.5 tM) at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min, detection wavelength       = 254 nm, the extract
    concentration: 2 kg/L in fresh weight, and the injection volume: 50 gL).
    [00107]         FIG. 25 - Metal analysis of the dried plant matter, water extract powder, and
    its precipitated salts of giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) by Thermo Scientific ICAP 7200
 0  ICP-OES.
    [00108]         FIG. 26 - The diagram shows that the growth of the floating fern (Salvinia
    minima) plants can be totally controlled by the water extract of dried matter of giant salvinia
    (Salvinia molesta) within six weeks (with bars presenting standard deviations).
    [00109]         FIG. 27 - The diagram shows that the plants of Carolina mosquito fern
 5  (Azolla caroliana)was inhibited by the water extract at higher concentration (2.5% or higher,
    in dry weight) (with bars presenting standard deviations).
    [00110]         FIG. 28 - The photograph shows that all giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta)
    plants were eliminated within 13 weeks after the treatment with water extract of the dried
    matter of least duckweed (Lemna minuta). The plants in the top row served as control without
 '0 any treatment, and each plant has developed significant new growth. The plants in the middle
    row were treated with 0.01% water extract of duckweed, and some plants have developed
    new growth. The plants in the bottom row were treated with 0.l1% water extract of duckweed,
    and all plants are dead and no any new growth was developed from any plants during the
    eight months of observation. The three columns represent three replications of the
25  experiment.
    [00111]         FIG. 29 - The diagram shows the new growth per plant of giant salvinia
    (Salvinia molesta) by the end of the 13th week after treatment with water or ethanol extract of
    dried matter of least duckweed (Lemna minuta) in comparison with untreated plants (control)
    (with bars presenting standard deviations).
30  [00112]         FIG. 30 - The picture shows that all giant salvinia (Salvinia molesta) plants
    were eliminated within 13 weeks after treatment with ethanol extract of the dried matter of
                                                   31

       WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    least duckweed (Lemna minuta). The plants in the top row served as control without any
    extract treatment, and each plant has developed significant new growth. The plants in the
    middle row were treated with 0.01% ethanol extract of duckweed, and plants have developed
    new growth. The plants in the bottom row were treated with 0.1% ethanol extract of
 5  duckweed, and 12 plants are dead and only 3 plants have developed any new growth.
    However, all these 15 plants treated with 0.l1% ethanol extract of least duckweed were dead
    by the end of 15 weeks of the experiment and no new growth occurred thereafter during the
    eight months of observation. The three columns represent three replications of the
    experiment.
 0  [00113]         FIG. 31 - The photograph shows that some floating fern (Salvinia minima)
    plants were eliminated within the 13 weeks after the treatment with water extract of the dried
    matter of least duckweed (Lemna minuta). The plants in the top row served as control without
    any extract treatment. The plants in the middle row were treated with 0.01% ethanol extract
    of duckweed. The plants in the bottom row were treated with 0.1% ethanol extract of
 5  duckweed. The three columns represent three replications of the experiment.
    [00114]         FIG. 32 - The diagram shows new growth per plant of floating fern (Salvinia
    minima) by the end of the 13th week after treatment with water or ethanol extract of the dried
    matter of least duckweed (Lemna minuta) in comparison with untreated plants (control) (with
    bars presenting standard deviations).
 '0 [00115]         FIG. 33 - The photograph shows that all floating fern (Salvinia minima) plants
    were eliminated by the end of 13 weeks after the treatment with 0.l1% ethanol extract of the
    dried matter of duckweed (Lemna minuta). The plants in the top row served as control
    without any treatment, and there is significant new plant growth. The plants in the middle
    row were treated with 0.01% ethanol extract of duckweed, and new growth can be observed.
25  The plants in the bottom row were treated with 0.l1% ethanol extract of duckweed, and some
    plants are dead and minimal new growth can be observed. The three columns represent three
    replications of the experiment.
    [00116]         FIG. 34 - The photograph shows that 3-week-old Brazilian pepper tree
    (Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi) seedlings had significant damage after the first treatment
30  with 10% Brazilian pepper tree extract or Brazilian pepper tree extract with surfactants in
    comparison with those in control and surfactants treatment. By the end of the 4th week, all
                                                  32

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    six pepper tree seedlings were dead following the pepper tree extract with surfactants
    treatment and and five seedlings were dead and one had dead apical bud and young leaves
    after treated by the pepper tree extract.
    [00117]         FIG. 35 - The photographs show that 3-week-old seedlings of Chinese tallow
 5  tree (Triadica sebifera (L.) Small) and Chinese privet (Ligustrum sinense Lour.) (family
    Oleaceae) under treatment with 10% Chinese tallow tree fruit extract. All six Chinese tallow
    tree seedlings treated by the ethanol extract of Chinese tallow tree fruits were significantly
    damaged (right on the upper row) in comparison with control (left on the upper row).
    However, the tollowtree extract did not cause any damage in Chinese privet seedlings (right
 0  on the bottom row) while the Chinese privet extract did not damage the tallow tree seedlings
    (left on the bottom row).
    [00118]         FIG. 36 - The diagram shows the impacts of acetone extract and ethanol
    extract of the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) on the workers of the red
    imported fire ant. The ethanol extract showed more significant toxicity against the fire ants
 5  than the acetone extract. During the 7 h of contact toxicity bioassays, an average of
    approximately 60%, 70%, or 80% of the 50 fire ants in contact with 1%, 5%, or 10% ethanol
    extract were dead, respectively.
    [00119]         FIG. 37 - The diagram shows the impacts of ethanol extract of the red
    imported fire ants and formic acid on the workers of the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis
 '0 invicta Buren). During the 90 min of contact toxicity bioassays, the combined applications of
    ethanol extract and formic acid had more significant effects than the use of either ethanol
    extract or formic acid alone (with bars presenting standard deviations).
    [00120]         FIG. 38 - The diagram shows the impacts of ethanol extract of the red
    imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) and formic acid on the injured workers of the red
25  imported fire ants. During the 90 min of contact toxicity bioassays, the combined applications
    of ethanol extract and formic acid had more significant effects than the use of either ethanol
    extract or formic acid alone (with bars presenting standard deviations).
    [00121]         FIG. 39 - The diagram shows the occurrence of formic acid (HCOOH) in
    chroroform (CHCl 3) extract of the subterranean termite (Reticulitermesflavipes (Kollar)) by
30  NMR analysis.     1H-NMR
                                experiments were performed on a JEOL ECS 400 spectrometer,
                                                   33

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    with spectroscopic data referenced to the solvent used. According to standard formic acid 1H
    NMR spectrum, the unique singlet of the aldehyde proton should appear at      6H 8.02.
    [00122]         FIG. 40 - The diagram shows the impacts of formic acid on the subterranean
    termite (Reticulitermesflavipes (Kollar)). Formic acid at higher concentrations (5 or 10%)
 5  killed all termites (including workers, soldiers, and reproductive) during the first hour of
    contact experiment. More than 40% of the termites were killed by the 1% formic acid during
    the 7 h of contact toxicity bioassays. However, formic acid at 0.1% concentration had no
    impact on the termites (with bars presenting standard deviations).
 0                   DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
    [00123]         Control of invasive species by its endogenous metabolites has never been
    proposed or used.
    [00124]         The inventors recently discovered that some aquatic plants, trees, fire ants, or
    termites experienced slow autocide by their own toxins that were released into the
 5  environment by themselves or other individuals within the same species. It was known that
    some bioactive secondary metabolites may accumulate in glands (e.g., epidermal glandular
    trichomes of plants or exocrine glands of insects). These compounds usually do not interrupt
    normal growth of the producing species due to their non-bioavailability. However, it was
    discovered that external application of these bioactive agents to the parent species will inhibit
 '0 and even eliminate the species. Further, the parent species may be more sensitive to its
    endogenous toxic metabolites than other species.
    [00125]         As a proof of principle, the inventors found that endocides from giant salvinia
    and extracts of least duckweed (Lemna minuta) (Lernnaceae) can eliminate existing giant
    salvinia quickly and prohibit plant growth for at least six months in controlled conditions.
25  The experiments showed that the effective materials used to extract bioactive agents to
    control Salvinia spp. include any ground dry biomass matters of Salvinia and Lemna.
    Experiments also found that the fresh biomass of Salvinia and Lemna, particularly chopped
    can also be useful to extract bioactive agents or direct application in control of Salvinia spp.
    Raw and unground dry plant matter can also be used in a similar manner, and it is believed
30  that any other plant species containing the active agents as described herein could be useful in
    production of biocides to control Salvinia spp. This method is useful for controlling invasive
    aquatic plants, but this method also has potential in territorial plants and endophytic fungi. It
                                                    34

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    is especially useful for controlling      invasive plants with trichomes as the primary
    accumulation sites of bioactive compounds.
    [00126]         Salvinia species are rootless, free-floating aquatic ferns and they are well
    known for their extremely water-repellent floating leaves. On the upper surfaces of the
 5  floating leaves of S. molesta, four multicellular glandular trichomes have their apical cells
    connected to form egg-beater structures. The arrows point to the egg-beater structures of
    trichomes which were removed by blade. The root-like submerged leaves are highly branched
    with multicellular trichomes and on which sporocarps developed.
    [00127]         Previous experiments found that the active agents of giant salvinia are
 0  primarily accumulated in trichomes which are usually intact, and the plant can avoid poison
    by these toxins (Li et al., unpublished data). However, Salvinia spp. are well-known for their
    water-repellent floating leaves because of the leaves are densely covered with peculiar
    trichomes (Barthlott et al. 2009). On the upper surfaces of floating leaves of S. molesta, four
    multicellular trichomes have their apical cells connected to form egg-beater structures (FIG.
 5  2). The root-like submergered leaves also have dense multicellular trichomes (FIG. 2). The
    basal cells of the trichomes in S. molesta are covered with wax (Barthlott et al. 2009).
    Therefore, the bioactive compounds in trichomes of the living plants are not released into the
    water because of this water-repellent feature. The removal or damage of the apical cells (egg
    beater structures) of trichomes (FIG. 2) will not only release the chemicals in storage but also
 '0 allow water to access the floating leaves to soak the bioactive agents out. This invention
    emphasizes that breaking the trichomes (e.g., mechanical treatments such as grinding,
    blending, squeezing, or heavily washing plant tissues) is necessary for effective extraction of
    the bioactive agents from giant salvinia.
    [00128]         Both water and organic solvents (e.g., ethanol) can be used to effectively
25  extract the bioactive agents. The most effective solvent to dissolve these bioactive entities,
    fractions, or extracts to control Salvinia spp. is water, but organic solvents could also be
    useful in application. Plants respond to the treatment more quickly at higher temperatures
    than at lower temperatures (RT).
    [00129]         The endocidal functions are not only in giant salvinia, a fern species in the
30  phylum Pteridophyta of the kingdom Plantae, but also discovered in Brazilian pepper tree and
    Chinese tallow tree, two tree species in the phylum Flowering Plants of the kingdom Plantae
                                                   35

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    and the red imported fire ant and subterranean termite, two insect species from the phylum
    Arthropoda of the kingdom Animalia. The plant growth of Brazilian pepper tree seedlings
    had significant damage by the 10% ethanol extract of Brazilian pepper tree fruits after the
    first treatment (FIG. 34). Four weeks later, all six Brazilian pepper tree seedlings were killed
 5  by the extract with surfactants and five of the six seedlings treated by the extract alone were
    dead with one significantly injured. The seedlings of sweetgum (Liquidambarstyraciflua L.)
    (family Altingiaceae) and Shumard oak (Quercus shumardii Buckland) (family Fagaceae) as
    well as poison ivy (Toxicodendron radicans (L.) Kuntze or Rhus toxicodendron L.) of the
    same family with Brazilian pepper tree were not impacted by the Brazilian pepper tree
 0  extract. Furthermore, the Brazilian pepper tree seedlings were no inhibited by either
    surfactants or the 10% ethanol extract of Chinese tallow tree (Triadica sebifera (L.) Small)
    fruits.
    [00130]         The ethanol extract of the fruits of Chinese tallow tree (Triadica sebifera (L.)
    Small) (Eurporbiaceae) inhibited and even killed young seedlings of the tallow tree.
 5  However, the tollowtree extract did not cause any damage in the seedlings of Chinese privet
    (Ligustrum sinense Lour.) of the family Oleaceae. Further, the Chinese privet extract did not
    damage the tallow tree seedlings.
    [00131]         Formic acid commonly occurs in ants (family Formicidae), termites (Isoptera),
    and some other insects. The organic acid is accumulated in exocrine glands of these insects
 '0 and serves as defensive weapon fighting against attackers. The formic acid can be as
    concentrated as 60% of the secretion of ants, and workers can contain as much as 2 mg each
    (Morgan 2008). The acid is a known natural pesticide. Like their enemies, however, both the
    red imported fire ants and subterranean termites could not avoid toxicity of formic acid
    during external topical or fumigation application (FIGS. 37-40).
25  [00132]         This invention found that the red imported fire ants can be killed by the
    extracts of the fire ants (without formic acid), particularly ethanol extract (FIG. 36).
    However, the ethanol extract (primarily piperidine alkaloids) of the fire ants had selective
    activity against the ants and showed no effects on the subterranean termite. The fire ants and
    termites are in different superorders (Endopterygota and Exopterygota, respectively).
30  [00133]         Both formic acid and acetic acid have been used as herbicides to control
    weeds. This invention found that formic acid is more effective than acetic acid to control
                                                   36

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    giant salvinia. Formic acid acid at 0.05% concentration killed approximately 50% of the
    giant salvinia plants within 24 h. It is more effective in salvinia control when combined with
    giant salvinia extracts.
    [00134]          This invention reports that bioactive compounds in giant salvinia are primarily
 5  accumulated in glandular trichomes on the leaf surface. It is known that the surface of the
    fruits (drupes) of Brazilian pepper tree is also covered by glandular trichomes (Carmello
    Guerreiro and Paoli 2002). Chinese tallow tree has glands on leaf stalks. Formic acid is a
    primary venom compound commonly accumulated in the abdominal exocrine glands of ants
    and termites. In all these five described distant-related species, glands act accumulation sites
 0  of bioactive compounds that play important roles in endocidal function of the species so that
    the bioactive compounds do not poison the producing species in normal growth. Thus, the
    endocide may have effects especially in the species with glands as accumulation sites of
    bioactive compounds.
    [00135]          Furthermore, this invention disclosed that application of endocides at low
 5  concentrations (dosages) can control partial growth of an individual (e.g., a specific cell(s),
    tissue(s), or organ(s)) of the producing species rather than killing or eliminating the species.
    [00136]          Application of endocides at low concentrations (dosages) may produce
    abnormal morphogenesis. In some embodiments, the endocides may induce mutations. In
    some embodiments, the induced mutations may be used to produce desirable genotypes.
 '0 [00137]          In some weeds and crops, autotoxicity reports are primarily on effects in the
    seed germination, growth, and yield of the producing plants and the resulting soil sickness
    and replanting problems. The reported autotoxic chemicals had weak activity against the
    parent species but they are more pootent inhibitory effects on other non-closely-related
    species (e.g., species in other genera, families or orders) than on the producing plants.
25  Therefore, it is impossible to develop a biocidal product to selectively control the producing
    invasive species. Furthur, it is commonly believed that a species can avoid self-toxicity by its
    endogenous toxic metabolites and the toxic compounds are primarily used for defense to
    protect itself from enemies. The present invention discovered that some invasive species with
    glands as accumulation site of their autotixic chemicals cannot avoid autotoxicity by its own
30  metabolite(s) when externally applied. More importantly, these parent species (and its
    closely-related species) are more sensitive to its endogenous toxic metabolites than the other
                                                    37

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    tested species in different genera, families or orders. The mechanism of selective activity of
    the autotoxic chemicals to the producing species is not clear but it seems that these chemicals
    in glands are not available to the normal growth and development of the species.
    [00138]         This discovery provides the foundation for development of a novel endocide
 5  product to selectively control an invasive species over the other species. It further suggests
    that how to avoid endogenous autotoxicity by the toxic metabolit(s) must be the priority for
    the producing species in the development and evolution. To protect itself from enemies by
    "defensive" metabolite(s) become possible only when the producing species can avoid
    endogenous autotoxicity.
 0  A.       Natural Pesticide Compositions
              1.    Endocides
    [00139]         In some embodiments,        the present    invention relates to    compositions
    containing endocides and methods of controlling the growth of invasive species using the
    same. An endocide (endogenous biocide) is a biocide derived from an endogenous bioactive
 5  agent (e.g., secondary metabolite) that does not cause apparent poison in normal growth of
    the producing species but will poison or inhibit and even eliminate the parent species when
    induced in producing species. It can selectively eliminate the parent species (and possiblly its
    closely-related species) when externally applied. The dead tissues of species caused by an
    endocide will enhance the endocidal function to the species. The endocide can be developed
 '0 as either a pure single entity or as a mixture of compounds (e.g., a fraction of extract, an
    extract, a dry or fresh matter of species). The endocides can be obtained in liquid or solid
    format from fresh or dried matter by any effective extraction methods (e.g., expression,
    distillation, solvent extraction, infusion, decoction, and percolation). For aquatic species,
    endocides are usually water soluble and can be dissolved in water in application. Endocides
25  may have effects on the invasive species in all or some growth stages and all or some tissues.
    [00140]         The endocide development process is summarized in FIG. 1. As an example,
    the inventors studied giant salvinia plants. It was found that endocides derived from either
    dried or fresh plant matter of giant salvinia can effectively control the invasive species in all
    growth stages (primary, secondary, and tertiary stages) (Examples 1-8). It was found that dry
30  plant matter of giant salvinia can fully eliminate giant salvinia plants when adequate dried
    ground matter of giant salvina is placed in the water (FIG. 3).
                                                   38

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    [00141]         FIG. 3 illustrates that the minimum effective concentration to inhibit giant
    salvinia is between 4 and 8 g of dried plant matter per liter of water. About 50% of giant
    salvinia plants were killed at the concentration of 8 g/L. The salvinia plants were fully
    eliminated at 16 g/L within two weeks in the greenhouse (FIGS. 3 and 4), and no new or
 5  living salvinia plants were found within the six months of observation thereafter. This
    demonstrates that giant salvinia contains some agents that are toxic to the parent plants and
    that these agents can fully eliminate and inhibit the growth of salvinias at higher
    concentrations. The "tea bag" treatment killed the salvinias bottom-up by damaging the root
    like submerged leaves of giant salvinia first (FIG. 5). Then the trichomes on the upper
 0  surfaces of the floating leaves of giant salvinia were wilted following the damage of the
    submerged leaves (FIG. 6). The wilted trichomes released autotoxic compounds and thus
    enhanced the endocidal function. The "bottom-up" killing style of the "tea bag" is
    particularly effective in a shallow and still water body infested with multi-layers of salvinia
    mat because the dead tissues of the bottom layer of salvinias killed by the "tea bag" would
 5  enhance the endocidal function to eliminate the next layer of the salvinia.
    [00142]         In some cases, because higher effective concentration of dried ground plant
    salvinia is needed to inhibit giant salvinia, and some natural factors in lakes and other water
    systems may dilute the concentrations or prohibit the occurrence of higher concentrations, it
    may be necessary to place dried and ground matter of giant salvinia in nylon or other net bags
 '0 to have effective concentrations for the controlling target. In another cases, it was found that
    unground raw plant matter of giant salvinia at 16 g/L was less effective than ground matter
    and took more than five times longer to kill the plants.
    [00143]         To identify more effective agents from giant salvinia to control the growth of
    the plant, experiments were conducted with a particular focus on water extracts of giant
25  salvinia (FIG. 1). It was confirmed that water extract of giant salvinia can successfully
    eliminate giant salvinia within 13 weeks at RT and prohibit the plant growth for at least eight
    months (FIG. 7), MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 and MeOH fractions eliminated all giant salvinia plants
    within two weeks (FIG. 8), new compound salviniside II also eliminated the giant salvina
    plants (FIGS. 9-11), and the ethanol extract of giant salvinia inhibited the growth of giant
30  salvinia effectively. In summary, while the bioactive MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 and MeOH fractions and
    salviniside II compound are more effective, each extract or fraction thereof can be produced
    as endocides to eliminate and prohibit giant salvinia.
                                                    39

        WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    [00144]         The experiments showed that extraction temperature and solvent (water)
    volume significantly contributed to the quality of water extracts and its fractions. The higher
    extraction temperature (60 C) and higher rate of solvent volume to dried plant matter weight
    (43.8:1, v/w) yielded an extraction rate of approximately 8.8% (Example 5), and the lower
 5  temperature (RT) and lower rate of solvent volume to dried plant matter weight (17.2:1, v/w)
    yielded a 6.25% extraction rate (Example 3). Also, H 2 0 fraction from the Example 5 (FIG.
    14) was much more effective than that from Example 3 (FIG. 8).
    [00145]         The experiments indicate that extracts (juice) expressed from the fresh matter
    of giant salvinia (e.g., by hydraulic press) can be directly used in control of giant salvinia
 0  (FIGS. 16-20). The yield rate of extracted juice from the fresh matter of giant salvinia may
    depend on the growth stage and moisture content of the harvested plant matter and
    approximately 50% of the plant matter in fresh weight. The extracts expressed from the fresh
    matter of giant salvinia (0.28% or 0.40% in concentration) were even more effective than the
    concentrated water extracts (5%) from the dried matter of giant salvina in inhibition of the species
 5  (FIG. 20). The HPLC analysis showed that the hydraulic extracts had more complex chemical
    constituents in both detection conditions and higher contents of some compounds and even
    unique compounds may be responsibile for the strong bioactivity of the hydraulic extract (FIGS.
    21 and 22). Like aquatic herbicides, addition of a surfactant to the endocide may help it wet
    and penetrate the floating leaves with water-repellent trichomes and thereby result in more
 '0 effective spray applications (FIGS. 14, 16, 17, and 20). In both experiments, all plant tissues
    of giant salvinia after hydraulic extraction were dead and there was no new plant growth in
    the cultured plant residues from the hydraulic extraction within six weeks of the experiment
    (FIG. 19). The plant residues from the extraction of the fresh matter are safe to be discarded
    into the treated water bodies. Therefore, extracts from the fresh matter of giant salvinia are
25  desirable for use as endocides to eliminate and prohibit giant salvinia. In its concentrated
    form, the extract juice from fresh matter may also be effective to control salvinia. Because
    the degraded hydraulic extract after long-storage might be still useful in control of salvinias,
    it is speculated that diluted several times with water, the newly produced extract juice from
    the fresh matter may also be effective to control salvinias.
30  [00146]         According to the experiments, aqueous products of endocides may be better to
    be stored under refrigeration (4 C) while powder samples can be stored at RT for relative
    stability. In general, the H2 0 fraction was more stable than the water extract or the hydraulic
                                                   40

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    extract in storage. The extract powder stored at RT for 26 weeks had approximately 70% of
    the total peak area of that in the newly prepared extract (FIG. 12).
    [00147]         The hydraulic extract stored under refrigeration (4 C) is more stabilized than
    that stored at RT, and on the 14th week of the storage it contained approximately 60% of the
 5  total peak area of that in the newly-prepared extract, and it was still active in inhibition of
    giant salvinia (FIGS. 23 and 24). After being stored at RT for 26 weeks, the H2 0 fraction
    powder preserved over 90% of its chemical contents, and its liquid form stored in a
    refrigerator (4 C) still had approximately 90% of the total peak area of the newly prepared
    sample (FIG. 13).
 0  [00148]         Salvinia spp. have the potential to hyperacumulate a wide range of heavy
    metals from water and have high levels of tolerance to the metals according to the literature.
    The ICP analysis showed that the concentrations of the main metals in the water extract
    powder are much lower than the toxic concentrations in the metal solutions to grow Salvinia
    spp. as reported (10 to 100 ppm). For example, the concentrations of cadmium (Cd),
 5  chromium (Cr), cobalt (Co), copper (Cu), lead (Pb), and molybdenum (Mo) in the dry extract
    powder are less than 1 ppm in dry weight, and the concentration of copper (Cu), iron (Fe),
    lead (Pb), and zinc (Zn) in the dry extract powder is 5.310525, 228.0387, 2.515505, and
    166.7952, respectively (FIG. 25). The concentrations of these metals in the application of
    endocides were diluted by 20 to 1,000 times when using water extract at its spray
 '0 concentration (0.1 to 5% in dry weight) in control of salvinia. Thus, toxic metals are not the
    major active ingredients of salvinia endocides, i.e., they are not responsible for inhibiting the
    survival and growth of giant salvinia.
    [00149]         The experiment showed that isolated salts account for 6.25% of the water
    extract from the dried matter of giant salvinia in dry weight. Of the 5% water extract (the
25  highest concentration used in the experiments), the concentration of the salts is 0.3125%
    (3.125 ppt). The experiment indicated that even the spray of the salts at even 5%
    concentration (50 ppt) of the salts had no significant impact on the growth of giant salvinia.
    Therefore, the salts precipitated from the water extract are not the major active ingredients
    responsible for the bioactivity of water extracts (FIG. 25).
30  [00150]         The experiments indicated that both spraying and dissolving these agents were
    effective. A similar approach may be taken to identify endocides in all invasive plant species,
                                                    41

        WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    including but not limited to Salvinia adnata, S. auriculata, S. biloba, S. cucullata, S.
    cyathiformis, S. hastata, S. herzogii, S. martynii, S. minima, S. molesta, S. natans, S.
    nymphellula, S. oblongifolia, S. radula, S. rotundifolia, S. spruce, Azolla caroliniana, A.
    cristata, A. circinata,A. filiculoides, A. japonica,A mexicana, A. microphylla, A. nilotica, A.
 5  pinnata,A. rubra,Lemna minuta, or Eichharniacrassipes.
    [00151]         The water extract of dried matter of giant salvinia can totally eliminate the
    plants of the floating fern (S. minima), a species within the same genus with giant salvinia, at
    either 0.1% or 0.5% within six weeks (FIG. 26). Both water extracts and hydraulic extracts
    of giant salvinia had significant impacts on the growth of Carolina mosequito fern (Azolla
 0  caroliniana),a fern species in a different family but the same order with the genus Salvinia.
    The hydraulic extract (0.4%) killed 100% of the Carolina mosquito fern plants by the end of
    thel5th day (FIG. 27). The water extract at higher concentrations (2.5, 5, or 7.5%) killed
    100% of the Carolina mosquito fern plants within the 15 days of experiment (FIG. 27). At
    even 5% concentration, the water extract of the dried matter of giant salvinia did not impact
 5  the growth of herbaceous flowering plants (e.g., least duckweed (Lemna minuta), Brazillan
    watermeal (Wolffia brasillensis Weddell), water hyacinth (Eichharnia crassipes), and
    hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle)), and native confers (e.g., bald cypress (Taxodium
    distichum (L.) Rich.) and loblolly pine (Pinus taeda L.)). The endocide of giant salvinia has
    obvious selective activity against salvinias (order Salviniales) especially the species of family
 '0 Salviniaceae, but it has no impacts on seed plants (spermatophytes) including angiosperms
    (flowering plants) and gymnosperms.
            2.      Natural Pesticides Derived From Second Species
    [00152]         Least duckweed (Lemna minuta) is a noxious invasive species itself. Its water
    extract successfully eliminated giant salvinia and prohibited plant growth for at least eight
25  months (see Example 14) (FIGS. 28 and 29). Ethanol extract of duckweed was also effective
    to control giant salvinia (FIG. 30). Duckweed extracts were also able to control Salvinia
    minima (FIGS. 31-33).
    B.      Examples
    [00153]         The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments
30  of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques
    disclosed in the examples that follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to
                                                     42

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    function well in the practice of the invention, and thus can be considered to constitute
    preferred modes for its practice. However, those of skill in the art should, in light of the
    present disclosure, appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments
    which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit
 5  and scope of the invention.
                                              EXAMPLE 1
          Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia (Salvinia Molesta) by the Water
                              Extracted Dried Matters of Giant Salvinia
 0  [00154]         General Experimental Procedures: Air-dried whole plants of giant salvinia
    were ground to a coarse powder and placed in nylon net bags (called "tea bags"). Each of 12
    containers had 400 g of living healthy plants of giant salvinia in all growth stages (primary,
    secondary, and tertiary stages) in 25 L of tap water in the greenhouse (30 'C during the day
    time and 20 'C at night). Three containers had no treatment to serve as controls. The first
 5  treatment group had three containers and each had one bag of 100 g of giant salvinia dried
    matter in the water. The second group of three containers had one bag of 200 g of giant
    salvinia dried matter, and the last group of three containers had one bag of 400 g of giant
    salvinia dried matter. There was no significant difference of pH values between the
    treatments and control during the experiments.
 '0 [00155]         Results: In the 400 g treatment group, more than 35% of plants were dead by
    the end of the first week and all plants were dead by the end of the second week and no plants
    survived or new growth occurred thereafter during the observation of six months (FIGS. 3
    and 4). In this treatment, the root-like submerged leaves of giant salvinia were totally
    damaged about a week later and then the floating leaves turned into brown and dead (FIG. 5).
25  In contrast to those in the normal plant growth condition, the trichomes on the upper surfaces
    of the floating leaves of giant salvinia were soon wilted following the response of submerged
    leaves to the "tea bag" treatment (FIG. 6). The wilted trichomes released autotoxic
    compounds and thus enhanced the endocidal function. It was also found that the 200 g
    treatment group inhibited almost 50% of the plants by the end of the fourth week of the
30  experiment. However, no significant effect of the 100 g treatment was observed on salvinia
    growth.
                                                   43

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
                                             EXAMPLE 2
       Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Water Extract of the Dried
                                       Matter of Giant Salvinia
    [00156]         General Experimental Procedures: Air-dried whole plants (350 g) were
 5  ground to a coarse powder and percolated with H 2 0 at RT to yield a 4 L aqueous solution
    (0.84%, g/mL). Of the aqueous solution, 119 mL was diluted to 900 mL 0.1% and 1,000 mL
    0.010% solution (g/mL) for the following experiment. The experiment included 45 healthy and
    untreated living plants of giant salvinia (in secondary growth stage, approximately 7 g in
    fresh weight each). The plants were cultured and tested in plastic containers (14 x 15 cm,
 0  0.68 L) in the NCPC Lab at RT. Controls: 15 plants with five in each container (3
    replications) were cultured with 300 mL of tap water; 0.01% water extract treatment: 15
    plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300 mL 0.01% of the
    water extract of giant salvinia dissolved in tap water; and 0.1% water extract treatment: 15
    plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300 mL 0.1% of the
 5  water extracts of giant salvinia dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and survival status were
    documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of the 13th week, new
    growth biomass of the plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of new growth
    was a primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target plant.
    [00157]         Results: By the end of 13 weeks of treatment, each of the 15 plants in the
 '0 control group had new growth, and 12 of the total 15 plants treated with 0.01% water extract
    of giant salvinia had new growth (FIG. 7). All giant salvinia plants treated with 0.l1% water
    extract of giant salvinia were dead and no new growth developed from any of the plants
    during the eight months of observation. pH values of the culture solution varied from 7.4 to
    7.6 and there were no significant differences among control and treatments.
25
                                             EXAMPLE 3
      Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Fractions of Water Extract of
                                  the Dried Matter of Giant Salvinia
    [00158]         General Experimental Procedures: Air-dried whole plants of giant salvinia
30  (1.4 kg) were ground to a coarse powder and extracted two times for 48 h with H 2 0 (12 L x
    2) at RT. The combined H2 0 extracts were concentrated to give extracts (88 g) under reduced
    pressure. The H2 0 extracts was applied on a column of silica gel (1,000 g) eluting with the
                                                   44

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    mixture of MeOH/CH 2 Cl 2 (1:1, v/v, 3L), 3 L of 100% MeOH, and IL H 2 0 to obtain three
    fractions, respectively (FIG. 1). The water extract and three fractions were all prepared as
    experimental solutions at the concentration of 0.1 %. The total 45 healthy and untreated
    living plants of giant salvinia (in secondary growth stage, approximately 10 g in fresh weight
 5  each) were cultured and tested in the plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) in the NCPC
    Lab at RT. The five treatments are as follows. Controls: 9 plants with three in each container
    (3 replications) were cultured with 150 mL of tap water; water extract treatment: 9 plants
    with three in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 150 mL 0.1% of the water
    extract of giant salvinia dissolved in tap water; H 20 fraction treatment: 9 plants with three in
 0  each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 150 mL 0.1% of H2 0 fraction dissolved in
    tap water; MeOH fraction treatment: 9 plants with three in each container (3 replications)
    were sprayed with 150 mL 0.1%             of MeOH      fraction dissolved in tap water; and
    MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 fraction treatment: 9 plants with three in each container (3 replications) were
    sprayed with 150 mL 0.1% of MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 (1: 1) fraction dissolved in tap water. Plant
 5  growth and survival status were documented and photographed weekly after the treatments.
    By the end of 2nd week, new growth biomass of plants in each treatment was measured. The
    biomass of new growth was a primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on
    the target plant.
    [00159]         Results:   On the 3rd day after the treatment, all plants treated with
 '0 MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 or MeOH fraction were dead in comparison to 100% survival of the plants in
    the control group. During the same day of observation, some leaves of the plants treated with
    water extract or H 2 0 fraction started to turn into brown color. By the end of two weeks, all
    plants in the control group were still alive (FIG. 8). By then, in contrast, no plants survived
    or new growth in both MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 and MeOH treatments, almost all plants were dead
25  with water extract, while the biomass of living plants under the H 2 0 fraction treatment was
    less than 25% of the plants in the control group (FIG. 8). The experiment indicated that
    MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 and MeOH fractions were very active and can fully control giant salvinia
    more quickly than its parent water extract and thus the following isolation of bioactive
    compounds was focused on these two fractions.
30
                                                    45

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
                                              EXAMPLE 4
      Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia by Salviniside II, an Isolate from Water
                            Extract of the Dried Matter of Giant Salvinia
    [00160]         General Experimental Procedures: Continuous fractionation was based on
 5  the combined MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 (1:1, v/v) and 100% MeOH fractions which showed potent
    activity to inhibit growth of giant salvinia in Example 3. The combined fractions were loaded
    on a pre-equilibrated open ODS column (60 x 600 mm). The ODS column was eluted
    successively with 30%, 55%, 75% and 100% MeOH to yield four fractions F1, F2, F3, and
    F4, respectively. F3 (75% MeOH elute) was concentrated and separated by a preparative
 0  HPLC (MeOH/H 20, 35:65, 254 nm) to yield four compounds including active salviniside II
    and C3 and inactive Cl and C2 and active fraction F32 and inactive F31 (FIG. 1). NMR
    experiments were performed on a JEOL ECS- 400 and a Bruker Avance 700 NMR
    instrument. NMR data were reported as 6 (ppm) values and referenced to the solvent used.
    HRESIMS were acquired on an electrospray instrument (MDS Sciex Pulsar Qstar, Ontario,
 5  Canada). Octadecyl-functionalized silica gel, silica gel, Sephadex LH-20, and TLC plates
    were purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. HPLC analysis was performed on a Hewlett
    Packard Series 1100 with a HP 1100 diode array detector using a Hypersil ODS column (150
    x 4.6 mm, 5 pM, Supelco; flow rate, 1 mL/min; MeOH/H 2 0 (v/v) linear gradient, 2:98-98:2
    in 35 min). Preparative HPLC was performed with an Acuflow Series III pump connected
 '0 with an Acutect 500 UV/VIS detector using an Econosil ODS column (250 x 22 mm, 10 pM,
    All tech). The total 27 healthy and untreated living plants of giant salvinia (in secondary
    growth stage, approximately 10 g in fresh weight each) were cultured and tested in plastic
    containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) in the NCPC Lab at RT. The five treatments were as follows.
    Controls: 9 plants with three in each container (3 replications) were cultured with 150 mL of
25  tap water; 0.01% salviniside II treatment: 9 plants with three in each container (3
    replications) were sprayed with 150 mL 0.01% of salviniside II dissolved in tap water; and
    0.1% salviniside II treatment: 9 plants with three in each container (3 replications) were
    sprayed with 150 mL 0.l1% of salviniside II dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and survival
    status were documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of two
30  weeks, new growth biomass of plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of new
    growth was a primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target plant.
                                                    46

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    [00161]         Results: The growth of giant salvinia was totally inhibited by salviniside II
    (FIGS. 9 and 10) at 0.1% of concentration within two weeks in the lab at RT (FIG. 11).
    There was no new growth identified thereafter during the eight months of observation.
    [00162]         Salviniside II is a new compound. It was obtained as colorless powders and
 5  showed an [M-1]* at m/z 473.0714 (calcd for 473.0720) in the HRESIMS, suggesting the
    molecular formula to be C2 2 Hi 8 0 1 2 . The 13
                                                     C and 1H-NMR spectrum (FIG. 10) displayed
    similarly two set of glycoside signals with two anomeric proton at 6 4.57 (lH, d, J=7.8 Hz, 0
    H-1")and 6 5.14(1H, d, J=3.7 Hz, a-H-1"),and two protonated carbon at 6 c-p 98.6 and 6 c-a
    94.4 observed in the HSQC spectrum. The analysis of the COSY, HSQC spectra of
 0  salviniside II indicated it is an isomeric mixture of a and -D-glucopyranosides (Choudhary
    et al. 2008; Ding et al. 1999; Narasimhulua et al. 2010). In addition, each signals of the
    aglycon part appeared essentially in duplicate owing to the formation of a mixture of a and 0
    anomers in the NMR spectrum. Five aromatic protons were found in the 1H-NMR spectrum
    (FIG. 10), of which three signals at 6 7.39 (lH, dd, J =1.8 and 8.5 Hz, H-2'), 6 6.84 (lH, d, J
 5  =8.5 Hz, H-3'), and 7.45 (lH, d, J =1.8 Hz, H-6') were characteristic of a 1,2,4-trisubstituted
    phenyl moiety, the remaining two at 6 7.70 (lH, d, J=8.2 Hz, H-6) and 6.82 (lH, d, J=8.2 Hz,
    H-7) were assigned to a 1,2,3,4-tetra substituted phenyl group (Narasimhulua et al. 2010). A
                             13
    close inspection of the    C-NMR spectrum data, together with the MS data, clearly revealed
    that the 1,2,3,4-tetrasubstituted phenyl moiety should be a part of a 8-carbon benzofuran
 '0 skeleton (Maurya et al. 2004; Wu et al. 2011 ). The          1C  NMR spectra of salviniside II
    displayed two ester carbonyl carbons at 6 168.1 and 6 168.7. As observed in the HMBC
                                                            6                        6
    spectrum, two key HMBC correlation among H-6 at           H 7.70 and Glc H-6" at   H 3.94 with a
    carbonyl carbon at 6c 168.1 (C-11) established the linkage between the benzofuran unit and
    H-6" of Glc. Similarly, the other ester carbonyl carbon (6c 168.7, C-10) was attached to H-4"
25  of Glc position by the HMBC spectrum analysis. These long-range HMBC correlations of H
    2' to C-l', C-6' and C-2, and of H-6' to C-l', C-2' and C-2 established the connectivity of the
    benzofuran skeleton with 1,2,4-trisubstituted phenyl moiety. The 1,1-ADEQUATE spectrum
    also confirmed the assignment. The relatively downfield shifted of C-3 at 6 110.3 and the
    remaining one degree of unsaturation established the linkage of the C-3 and C-10. The
30  complete assignment ofthe protons and carbons was achieved by a combination of 1H,          1C,
    HSQC, H- H COSY, HMBC and 1,1-ADEQUATE spectral analyses. Thus, salviniside II
                                                     47

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    was      identified     as    4",6"-0-[3,5-dicarbonyl-8-hydroxy-2-(4',5'-dihydroxy-phenyl)- 1
    benzofuran-2-yl]-D-glucopyranose.
                                              EXAMPLE 5
         Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Water Extract and H20
 5                Fraction of the Dried Matter of Giant Salvinia with Surfactants
    [00163]          General Experimental Procedures: Air-dried whole plants of giant salvinia
    (8 kg) were ground to a coarse powder and extracted in a vacuum distillation system (Eden
    Labs, Seattle, USA) with H2 0 two times for 24 h each (200 L and 150 L, respectively) at 60
    'C. The combined H2 0 extracts were concentrated to give an extract (703 g) under reduced
 0  pressure. The water extract was mixed with 300 g silica gel and loaded into a column of silica
    gel (1,000 g). The column was then eluted with 4 L of MeOH and 4 L H 20. The water extract
    and H2 0 fraction were both prepared as experimental solutions at the concentration of 5%.
    [00164]          The HPLC chromatographs of the newly prepared water extract and H 2 0
    fraction were also established by Agilent 1100 HPLC system coupled to an Agilent 1100
 5  diode array detector, and an Eclipse XDB-C18 column (4.6 x 150 mm, 3.5 tM) at a flow rate
    of 0.6 mL/min. A gradient elution was performed by using H 2 0 (A) and CH 3CN (B) as
    mobile phases. Elution was performed according to the following conditions: 2% B at time 0,
    linear increase to 98% B in 22 min, and hold 98% B for 8 min. The column temperature was
    maintained at 23 'C. The HPLC chromatogram was standardized on retention times and peak
 '0 intensities of the peaks observed at a wavelength of 254 nm. The concentration of water
    extract was 24 kg fresh plant matter/L and the injection volume was 3 gL for all analyses.
    The concentration of H2 0 fraction was 16 kg fresh plant matter/L. The injection volume was
    50 gL for all analyses.
    [00165]          Part of each of water extract and H 2 0 fraction was prepared separately as dry
25  powder by SPD 2010 Integrated SpeedVac (Thermo Scientific, NC, USA) for 12 h and then
    was stored at RT for 26 weeks. In addition, both 5% water extract and 5% H 2 0 fraction were
    stored at refrigerator (4 C) for 26 weeks. To determine the stability of the water extract and
    H 2 0 fraction during the storage, HPLC profiles of the powder and aqueous samples were
    established by Agilent 1100 at the condition described above.
30  [00166]          The experiment included 18 containers and each container had 750 g (in fresh
    weight) of healthy living Salvinia molesta in all growth stages (primary, secondary, and
                                                    48

        WO 2014/182627                                                                PCT/US2014/036837
    tertiary stages) cultured in 57 L of rain water. The plants were cultured and tested in the glass
    tank in the lab at RT. There were six treatments. Controls: each of the three containers had
    750 g giant salvinia plants cultured with rain water; "tea bag" treatment: each of the three
    containers with a nylon net bags of 800 g ground air-dried plant matter of giant salvinia on
 5  the bottom (see Example 1); water extract treatment: plants in each of the three containers
    were sprayed twice (on the 1st and    1 8 th day), each time with 100 mL 5% of the water extract
    of giant salvinia dissolved in water; water extract with surfactants treatment: plants in each of
    the three containers were sprayed twice (on the 1st and        1 8th day), each time with 100 mL 50%
    of the water extract of giant salvinia dissolved in water with 0.5 mL InletTM (polyalkoxylated
 0  and non-alkoxylated aliphatics and derivatives 90%, Helena Chemical Company, Collierville,
    TN, USA)        and 0.25 mL Kinetin@ (proprietary blend of polyalkyleneoxide modified
    polydimethylsiloxane     99%, Helena Chemical Company, Collierville, TN, USA); H 2 0
    fraction treatment: plants in each of the three containers were sprayed twice (on the s and
    18th day), each time with 100 mL 5% of H 2 0 fraction of the water extract of giant salvinia
 5  dissolved in water; and H2 0 fraction with surfactants treatment: plants in each of the three
    containers were sprayed twice (on the 1st and        1 8th day), each time with 100 mL 5% of H 2 0
    fraction of the water extract of giant salvinia dissolved in water with 0.5 mL InletTM and 0.25
    mL Kinetin@. Plant growth and survival status were documented and photographed weekly
    after the treatments. By the end of 3rd or 4 week, biomass of living plants in each treatment
 '0 was measured.
    [00167]          Results: According to HPLC analyses, the powder samples stored at RT for
    26 weeks were relatively stable. By the end of 26 weeks, the extract powder still had
    approximately 70% of the total peak area of that in the newly prepared extract (FIG. 12). By
    the end of 26 weeks, H2 0 fraction powder stored at RT preserved over 90% of its chemical
25  contents and 5% H 2 0 fraction liquid stored at refrigerator (4 C) still had approximately 90%
    of the total peak area of the newly prepared sample (FIG. 13).
    [00168]          The growth of giant salvinia can be successfully controlled by the endocide
    treatments in comparison with control (FIG. 14). By the end of the third week, all plants
    treated with either "tea bag" (FIG. 15), water extract with surfactants, or H2 0 fraction of the
30  water extract with surfactants were dead and there was no new growth during the following
    four months of observation. By the end of 4 th week, over 90% or 95% of the plants treated
    with water extract and H 2 0 fraction of the water extract were dead, respectively. Obviously,
                                                       49

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
     Surfactants made the salvinia endocides more effective. Because the experiments were
    conducted in November and at RT, plants experienced relatively slow growth. The living
    biomass in the controls had lightly decreased because the mature tissues were dead and more
    young plants emerged during the four weeks of experiment.
 5
                                              EXAMPLE 6
      Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Hydraulic Extract of the Fresh
                                       Matter of Giant Salvinia
     [00169]        General Experimental Procedures: The total 58 kg fresh matter of giant
 0  salvinia plants were chopped and shredded by food processor. Then the processed material
    was pressed by hydraulic press (Enerpac) at pressure of 27,579 kPa (4,000 psi) for 2 min to
    get 30 kg extract juice. To obtain the concentration of the extract juice, three 30 mL of juice
    samples were randomly collected and measured. Each of the three juice samples was
    centrifuged by accuSpin 3R Benchtop centrifuge (Fisher Scientific, PA, USA) at 3,000 rpm
 5  for 10 min. The upper liquid was first dried by SPD 2010 Integrated SpeedVac (Thermo
     Scientific, NC, USA) for 12 h. Then dried extract was measured. The average result of the
    three test samples was used to estimate the concentration of the extract juice. The
    concentration of hydraulic extract juices were 2 kg fresh plant matter/L. The spray treatment
    experiment included three plastic containers (20 gal, approximately equal to 75.7 L) with
 '0 approximately 390 g (in fresh weight) of giant salvinia living plants (in all growth stages:
    primary, secondary, and tertiary stages) in 50 L of tap water each in the greenhouse (30 'C
    during the day time and 20 'C at night). There were three treatments. Control: the plants in
    the first container were sprayed with 150 mL tap water only; extract juice treatment: the
    plants in the second container were sprayed with 150 mL of extract juice; and extract juice
25  and surfactants treatment: the plants in the third container were sprayed with 150 mL extract
    juice with 0.375 mL Inlet TM (polyalkoxylated and non-alkoxylated aliphatics and derivatives
    90%, Helena Chemical Company, Collierville, TN, USA)                and 0.1875 mL Kinetin@
    (proprietary blend of polyalkyleneoxide modified polydimethylsiloxane              99%, Helena
    Chemical Company, Collierville, TN, USA). The second same spay treatment was applied to
30  each of these six contains a week later, respectively. Plant growth and survival status were
    documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of 6th week, the total
    biomass of living plants in each treatment was measured. To investigate the survival rate of
    giant salvinia after hydraulic extraction, the 28 kg (in fresh weight) residual plant material of
                                                    50

        WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
    giant salvinia expressed by hydraulic press was cultured in five containers with 50 L tap
    water each for six weeks.
    [00170]         Results: The extraction rate of hydraulic extract from the fresh matter of giant
    salvinia in this experiment was approximately 51.7%. Based on the three test samples, the
 5  estimated concentration of the experimental extract juice was 0.28% (in fresh weight). The
    spray experiment showed that the hydraulic extract juice effectively inhibited the giant
    salvinia after two treatments (FIGS. 16 and 17). In comparison with those in the control
    treatment, the trichomes on the upper surfaces of the floating leaves of giant salvinia treated
    by the hydraulic extract had significant damage (FIG. 18). The wilted trichomes released
 0  autotoxic chemicals to enhance the endocidal function of the hydraulic extract. With
    surfactants, hydraulic extract juice totally eliminated the giant salvinia within four weeks and
    no new growth thereafter. The experiment indicates that the juice expressed from fresh matter
    of giant salvinia (e.g., by hydraulic press) is effective enough and can be directly used in
    control of giant salvinia without concentrating process. All plant tissues of giant salvinia after
 5  hudraulic extraction were dead and there was no new plant growth in the cultured plant
    residues from the hydraulic extraction within six weeks of observation (FIG. 19).
                                              EXAMPLE 7
     Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Water Extract from the Dried
      Matter and Hydraulic Extract of the Fresh Matter of Giant Salvinia with Surfactants
 '0 [00171]         General Experimental Procedures: The 5% water extract from the dried
    matter of giant salvinia (called "water extract") was prepared as described in the Example 5.
    The total 80 kg fresh matter of giant salvinia plants were chopped and shredded by chipper
    shredder CS 3310 (Cub Cadet, Cleveland, OH, USA). Then the processed material was
    pressed by hydraulic press (Enerpac) at pressure of 27,579 kPa (4,000 psi) for 2 min to get 38
25  kg extract juice. To obtain the concentration of the hydraulic extract, three 30 mL of juice
    samples were randomly collected and measured. Each of the three juice samples was
    centrifuged by accuSpin 3R Benchtop centrifuge (Fisher Scientific, PA, USA) at 3,000 rpm
    for 10 min. The upper liquid was first dried by SPD 2010 Integrated SpeedVac (Thermo
    Scientific, NC, USA) for 12 h. Then dried extract was measured. The average result of the
30  three test samples was used to estimate the concentration of the hydraulic extract (called
    "hydraulic extract"). The HPLC profiles of both water extract and hydraulic extract were
    established before the first treatments by using both of the following methods. (1) Method A:
                                                    51

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    Agilent 1100 HPLC system coupled to an Agilent 1100 diode array detector, and an Eclipse
    XDB-C18 column (4.6 x 150 mm, 3.5 tM) at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min. A gradient elution
    was performed by using H 2 0 (A) and CH 3CN (B) as mobile phases. Elution was performed
    according to the following conditions: 2% B at time 0, linear increase to 98% B in 22 min,
 5  and hold 98% B for 8 min. The column temperature was maintained at 23 'C. The HPLC
    chromatogram was standardized on retention times and peak intensities of the peaks observed
    at a wavelength of 254 nm. The concentration of both water extract and hydraulic extract
    were 2 kg fresh plant matter/L. The injection volume was 50 gL for all analyses. (2) Method
    B: Agilent 1260 HPLC system coupled to an Agilent 1260 diode array detector, and an
 0  Acclaim HILIC-10 column (4.6 x 150 mm, 3.0 tM) at a flow rate of 0.6 mL/min. The mobile
    phase was CH 3CN/H 20 (65:35, v/v). The column temperature was maintained at 23 'C. The
    HPLC chromatogram was standardized on retention times and peak intensities of the peaks
    observed at a wavelength of 230 nm. The concentration of both water extract and hydraulic
    extract were 40 kg fresh plant matter/L. The injection volume was 20 gL for all analyses. To
 5  determine the stability of hydraulic extract, HPLC profiles of the hydraulic extracts stored at
    refrigerator (4 C) and RT was established separately by above Method A daily for the first
    week and on the    14 th week before the third treatment in comparison with the profiles of the
    newly prepared extract for the first treatments. The spray treatment experiment included six
    625 gal (approximately 2,366 L) containers with approximately 7,400 g (including
 '0 approximately 7,000 g of plants in tertiary growth stage, approximately 300 g of plants in
    secondary growth stage, and approximately 100 g of plants in primary growth stage) of giant
    salvinia living plant in 1,700 L of rain water each in the greenhouse (30 C). There were three
    treatments. Control: the plants in each of the two containers were sprayed with 2.5 L rain
    water only; water extract with surfactants treatment: the plants in each of the two containers
25  were sprayed with 2.5 L of 5% water extract with 6.25 mL Dyne-Amic@ (methyl masters of
    C16-C18     fatty acids, polyalkyleneoxide      modifited poly dimthylsiloxane, alkylphenol
    ethoxylate 99%, Helena Chemical Company), and 3.125 mL Kinetin@ (proprietary blend of
    polyalkyleneoxide      modified polydimethylsiloxane      99%, Helena    Chemical   Company,
    Collierville, TN, USA); and hydraulic extract and surfactants treatment: the plants in each of
30  two containers were sprayed with 2.5 L extract juice with 6.25 mL Dyne-Amic@, and 3.125
    mL Kinetin@. The second spay treatment at the same dosage was applied to each of these six
    contains 10 days later, respectively. Plant growth and survival status were documented and
    photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of 14th week, the total biomass of
                                                    52

        WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    living plants in each treatment was measured. Then the third spay treatment at the dosage of
    0.5 L (for water extract and extract juice, each with 1.25 mL Dyne-Amic@, and 0.625 mL
    Kinetin@ was applied to each of these six contains, respectively. To investigate the survival
    rate of giant salvinia after hydraulic extraction, the 42 kg (in fresh weight) residual plant
 5  material of giant salvinia expressed by hydraulic press was cultured in six containers with 50
    L tap water each for six weeks.
    [00172]          Results: The extraction rate of hydraulic extract from the fresh matter of giant
    salvinia in this experiment was approximately was 47.5%. Based on the three test samples in
    each experiment, the estimated concentration of the experimental hydraulic extract was
 0  0.40% (in fresh weight). The hydraulic extract in this experiment had lower extraction rate of
    yield at higher concentration than that in the Example 6 because the plant matter used in this
    extraction had more dead tissues which holding less moisture. This experiment showed that
    both water extract and hydraulic extract with surfactants effectively inhibited the giant
    salvinia after two treatments (FIG. 20). The hydraulic extract with surfactants totally
 5  eliminated the giant salvinia within 15 weeks. The experiment indicates that hydraulic extract
    expressed from the fresh matter of giant salvinia was effective enough without concentrating
    process and can be used directly in inhibition of the species (FIG. 20). All plant tissues of giant
    salvinia after hudraulic extraction were dead and there was no new plant growth in the
    cultured plant residues from the hydraulic extraction within six weeks of observation.
 '0 [00173]          The experiment indicates that hydraulic extract expressed from the fresh
    matter of giant salvinia at low concentration (0.40%) was more effective than the concentrated
    water extract (5%) from the dried matter of giant salvina in inhibition of giant salvinia. HPLC
    profiles indicate that hydraulic extracts had more complex chemical constituents in both detection
    conditions and higher contents        of some compounds and even unique compounds may be
25  responsible for the strong bioactivity of the hydraulic extract (FIGS. 21 and 22).
    [00174]          According to HPLC analyses, hydraulic extract degraded much more quickly
    at RT than that at refrigerator (4 C). The total peak area of hydraulic extract stored at RT
    decreased to 35% by the end of the first week and to 30% by the end of the second week (vs.
    70% and 66% stored at refrigerator (4           C), respectively) in comparison with the newly
30  prepared extract (FIG. 23). On the 14th week, hydraulic extract stored at refrigerator (4 C)
    still contained approximately 60% of the total peak area of that in the newly prepared extract
                                                      53

       WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
   (first treatment) and still was active in inhibition of giant salvinia during the third spray
   treatment (FIG. 24).
                                            EXAMPLE 8
    Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Hydraulic Extract of the Fresh
 5          Matter of Giant Salvinia in Combination with Formic Acid or Acetic Acid
   [00175]         General Experimental Procedures: Formic acid (90.4%, certified ACS
   reagent grade, Fisher Scientific Company, Fair Lawn, NJ, USA) and acetic acid (99.7, ACS
   reagent grade, VWR International LLC, West Chester, PA, USA) were prepared as solutions
 0 at the concentration of 0.01%, 0.1%, 1%, 5%, and 10% immediately before the bioassay
   experiments. The experimental hydraulic extract used in this example was prepared from the
   previous experiment (fresh matter of giant salvinia (method see Example 7). The actual
   concentration of the extract during this experiment was approximately 0.28%. There were 37
   treatments in this experiment. Each treatment included 9 living healthy plants of giant
 5 salvinia in three Rubbermaid plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) (each container had two
   plants in secondary stage and one in tertiary growth stage, in total of 6 g in fresh weight). The
   plants in each container were sprayed with 12.5 mL of tap water, formic acid, acetic acid, or
   combination of hydraulic extract with formic or acetic acid. Control: the plants was sprayed
   with water only; nine formic acid treatments (0.01 %, 0.050%, 0.1%, 0.25 %, 0.50%, 0. 7 5 %, 1%,
 0 5%, and 10% concentrations); nine acetic acid treatments (0.01%, 0.05%, 0.1%, 0.25%,
   0.5%, 0.75%, 1%, 5%, and 10% concentrations); nine hydraulic extract treatments with
   various concentrations of formic acid (0.01%, 0.05%, 0.1%, 0.25%, 0.5%, 0. 7 5%, 1%, 5%,
   and 10%); and nine hydraulic extract treatments with various concentrations of acetic acid
   (0.01%, 0.05%, 0.1%, 0.25%, 0.5%, 0.75%, 1%, 5%, and 10%). Plant growth and survival
25 status were documented and photographed hourly for the first 5 h and then daily for seven
   days after the treatment.
   [00176]         Results: Giant salvinia is very sensitive to both formic acid and acetic acid.
   All plants treated with either formic or acetic acid at the 1% or higher concentrations were
   dead within 3 h of the treatment. However, at lower concentrations (<1%), formic acid was
30 much more effective than acetic acid in control of giant salvinia. For example, 0.05% formic
   acid was more effective than 0.25% acetic acid in giant salvinia. Formic acid at the 0.01%
   concentration still effectively inhibited the growth of giant salvinia. By combing hydraulic
   extract with 0.25% formic acid, all giant salvinia plants were killed within 24 h. Treated by
                                                  54

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    combing hydraulic extract with 0.05% formic acid, all giant salvinia plants were dead within
    a week. Treated by combing hydraulic extract with 0.01% formic acid, more than 40% of the
    giant salvinia plants were dead during the first week. The salvinia plants responded to the
    hydraulic extract with the organic acids much quickly and severely than hydraulic extract,
 5  formic acid, or acetic acid alone.
                                             EXAMPLE 9
    Metal Analysis of the Dried Matter of Giant Salvinia and Its Water Extract and Extract
                                                 Salts
    [00177]         General Experimental Procedures: The dried matter of giant salvinia and its
 0  water extract used this experiment were from Example 3. From the MeOH fraction of the 88
    g water extract of the dried matter of giant salvinia (see Example 3), 5 g salts were
    precipitated. 0.5 g of each of the ground dried plant matter of giant salvinia, water extract
    powder, and the salts was pre-digested overnight with 5 mL nitric acid in Digi-tubes at RT.
    Then the Digi-tubes were incubated on DigiPREP HT High Temperature Digestion Systems
 5  (SCP SCIENCE) for 3 h at 100 'C. Cool down and add 4 mL of hydrogen peroxide. Cook for
    90 min at 95 'C. The solution was diluted to a final volume of 50 mL for ICP analysis
    (Thermo Scientific iCap 7200 ICP-OES). The 5 ppt (0.5% in dry weight) and 50 ppt (5% in
    dry weight) solutions of the salts were prepared. 70 g living healthy plants of giant salvinia in
    tertiary growth stage were cultured in each of nine plastic containers (23 x 23 cm, 2.4 L).
 '0 There were three treatments with three containers each. Control: the plants in each of three
    containers were sprayed with 12.5 mL tap water only; 5 ppt salts treatment: the plants in each
    of the three containers were sprayed with 12.5 mL 0.5% salt solutions; 50 ppt salts treatment:
    the plants in each of the three containers were sprayed with 12.5 mL 5% salt solutions. Plant
    growth and survival status were documented and photographed weekly for eight weeks after
25  the treatment.
    [00178]         Results: The ICP analysis showed that the concentrations of the main meals
    cadmium (Cd), chromsium (Cr), cobalt (Co), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), lead (Pb), molybdenum
    (Mo), and zinc (Zn), in the dry extract powder were 0.16047, 0.883666, not detected,
    5.310525, 228.0387, 2.515505, 0.039819, and 166.7952 ppm (in dry weight) (FIG. 25). The
30  salts precipitated from the water extract of the dried matter of giant salvinia were mainly
    sodium (Na), potassium (K), cacium (Ca), and manganesium (Mg) salts according to the ICP
    analysis (FIG. 25). The 5 g precipitated salts accounts for 0.3333% of the 1.5 kg dry plant
                                                   55

        WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    matter or 6.25% of the 88 g water extract in dry weight. Through eight weeks of observation,
    the plants treated with the salts at either 5 or 50 ppt did not have any significant damage.
    There was no significant biomass difference among the salts treatments and control.
    Obviously, the spray of the salts even at 5% did not inhibit the plant growth of giant alvinia.
 5  In contrast, water extract of the dry plant of giant salvinia can effectively control giant salvina
    as described in Examples 5 and 6. Thus, the salts were not the active ingredients of the water
    extract in responsible for inhibiting giant salvinia.
                                             EXAMPLE 10
 0       Elimination and Prohibition of Floating Fern (Salvinia minima) Plants by Water
                            Extract of the Dried Matter of Giant Salvinia
    [00179]         General Experimental Procedures: The experiment included nine plastic
    containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) and each container had 10 g (in fresh weight) of healthy
    living Salvinia minima cultured in tap water in the greenhouse (30 'C during the day time and
 5  20 'C at night). There were three treatments. Controls: the floating fern plants in each of three
    containers were sprayed three times with the total of 90 mL tap water; 0.1% water extract
    treatment: the plants in each of three containers were sprayed three times with the total 90 mL
    0.1% of water extract of giant salvinia (the preparation method see Example 2); and 0.5%
    water extract treatment: the plants in each of three containers were sprayed three times with
 '0 the total 90 mL 0.5% of water extract of giant salvinia (the preparation method see Example
    2). Plant growth and survival status were documented and photographed weekly after the
    treatments. By the end of 1st, 2nd, 6th weeks, biomass of living plants in each container of all
    treatments was measured.
    [00180]         Results: The growth of the floating fern plants treated with either 0.1% or
25  0.5% water extract of giant salvinia were obviously inhibited during the first week (FIG. 26).
    By the end of the 6th week, all plants treated by water extract of giant salvinia were dead and
    there was no new growth thereafter.
                                             EXAMPLE 11
30   Elimination and Prohibition of Carolina Mosequito Fern (Azolla caroliniana) Plants by
       Water Extract from the Dried Matter and Hydraulic Extract of the Fresh Matter of
                                             Giant Salvinia
                                                    56

       WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    [00181]         General Experimental Procedures: The experimental species included a fern
    species Carolina mosequito fern (Azolla caroliniana)(family Azollaceae). The experiments
    were conducted in the greenhouse (30 'C during the day time and 20 'C at night). Water
    extracts were prepared from the dried matter of giant salvinia (the preparation method see
 5  Example 2) and the hydraulic extract was prepared from the fresh matter of giant salvinia
    (see Example 7). The spray experiment started until the plants fully covered each of the 18
    plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) with 400 mL tap water each. The plants were
    randomly classified into six groups: Control: each of the three containers was spayed three
    times with 10 mL of tap water each time; 0.4% hydraulic extract treatment: each of the three
 0  containers was spayed with 10 mL of 0.4% hydraulic extract; 0.l1% water extract treatment:
    each of the three containers was spayed twice with 10 mL of 0.10% water extract; 2.50% water
    extract treatment: each of the three containers was spayed twice with 10 mL of 2.5% water
    extract; 5% water extract treatment: each of the three containers was spayed twice with 10
    mL of 5% water extract; and 7.5% water extract treatment: each of the three containers was
 5  spayed twice with 10 mL of      7 .5% water extract. By the end of the 5 ',  1 0 ', and    15' day,
    surface coverage of living plants in each container of all treatments was photographed and
    measured and EC5 0 (half maximal effective concentration) values were calculated by the
    PROBIT procedure of SPSS 13.0 for Windows.
    [00182]         Results: Neither the hydraulic extract (0.4%) nor the water extract at 0.1%
 '0 concentration showed any significant impacts on the plant growth of Carolina mosquito fern
    during the first five days of the experiment but both extracts significantly inhibited the plant
    growth thereafter. The hydraulic extract was able to kill 100% of the Carolina mosquito fern
    by the end of the 15th day (FIG. 27). The water extract at higher concentrations (2.5, 5, or
    7.5%) significantly inhibited the growth of Carolina mosquito fern soon after the treatments.
25  Both 2.5% and 5% water extracts killed 100% of the Carolina mosquito fern plants by the
    end of the experiment. The 7.5% water extract eliminated all treated plants within the five
    days of the experiment (FIG. 27). EC50 value of water extracts of the dried matter of giant
    salvinia against Carolina mosquito fern is 4.42%, 1.32%, and 0.16% by the 5 ',      1 0 ',  and 1 5'
    day, respectively.
30                                          EXAMPLE 12
               Impacts of Giant Salvinia Endocides on Other Selected Plant Species
                                                  57

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    [00183]         General Experimental Procedures: The experimental species included four
    herbaceous invasive aquatic species of angiosperms (flowering plants), namely, least
    duckweed (Lemna minuta) and Brazillan watermeal (Wolffia brasillensis Weddell) of the
    family Araceae, water hyacinth (Eichharnia crassipes) of the family Pontederiaceae and
 5  hydrilla (Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle) of the family Hydrocharitaceae, and two native
    tree species of gymnosperms, namely baldcypress (Taxodium distichum (L.) Rich.) of the
    family Cupressaceae and loblolly pine (Pinustaeda L.) of the family Pinaceae. These species
    are often associated with giant salvinia in the southeastern United States. The experiments
    were conducted in the greenhouse (30 'C during the day time and 20 'C at night). Water
 0  extracts were prepared from the dried matter of giant salvinia (the preparation method see
    Example 2). Each species of least duckweed and Brazilian watermeal was separately cultured
    in nine   plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) with 400 mL tap water each. The spray
    experiment started until the plants fully covered each of the containers. For each of these two
    species, the plants were randomly classified into three groups: Control: each of the three
 5  containers was spayed three times with 10 mL of tap water each time; treatment I: each of the
    three containers was spayed twice with 10 mL of 0.1% water extract each time and then a
    week later with 10 mL of 5% of water extract; and treatment II: each of the three containers
    was spayed twice with 10 mL of 0.5% water extract each time and then a week later with 10
    mL of 5% water extract. Surface coverage of living plants in each container of all treatments
 '0 was photographed and measured weekly for six weeks. Five plants of each species of water
    hyacinth and hydrilla were cultured separately in container with 50 L tap water. For each
    species, three containers served as control and the plant leaves in each of the other three
    containers were sprayed twice with the total 100 mL of 5% water extract each time. Plant
    growth and survival status were documented and photographed weekly after the treatments
25  for six weeks. Six 2-year old seedlings of each of bald cypress and loblolly pine in 2-gal pots
    were used in the experiment. For each species, three seedlings as controls received water only
    and the needles and stems in each of the other three plants were sprayed twice with the total
    100 mL of 5% water extract each time. Plant growth and survival status were documented
    and photographed weekly after the treatments for six weeks.
30  [00184]         Results: During the six weeks of experiments, the growth of duckweed and
    watermeal had not been inhibited by 0. 1%, 0.50% or 50% of water extract of giant salvinia. By
    the end of the observation, the living plants of these three species in all treatments and
                                                   58

       WO 2014/182627                                                           PCT/US2014/036837
    controls stayed in full surface coverage on all containers. Similarly, there was no obvious leaf
    color change or damage observed in any treatments of the other two invasive flowering plants
    and two native confer species.
 5                                           EXAMPLE 13
       Inhibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Ethanol Extract of the Dried Matter of Giant
                                                 Salvinia
    [00185]         General Experimental Procedures: Air-dried whole plants (550 g) were
    ground to a coarse powder and percolated two times with 95% EtOH at RT (each 3 L, 24 h).
 0  The combined EtOH solution was concentrated to give ethanol extract (34.0 g) under reduced
    pressure. 1.0 g giant salvinia ethanol extract was dissolved in 2 mL DMSO, and then diluted
    with 'water to yield 900 mL 0.1% and 1,000 mL 0.01% solutions (g/mL) for further
    experimental analysis. The experiment included 45 healthy and untreated living plants of
    giant salvinia (approximately 7 g in fresh weight each). The plants were cultured and tested in
 5  the plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) in the NCPC Lab at RT. Controls: 15 plants with
    five in each container (3 replications) were cultured with 300 mL of tap water; 0.01% ethanol
    extract treatment: 15 plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300
    mL 0.01% of the ethanol extracts of giant salvinia dissolved in tap water; and 0.1% ethanol
    extract treatment: 15 plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300
 '0 mL 0.1% of the ethanol extracts of giant salvinia dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and
    survival status were documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of
    13th week, new growth biomass of plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of
    new growth was a primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target
    plant.
25  [00186]         Results: By the end of 13 weeks after the treatment, the plants in both Control
    and 0.01% ethanol extract treatment groups had new growth while about 60% of all giant
    salvinia plants treated with 0.1% ethanol extract of the dried matter of giant salvinia were
    dead and no significant growth on the other treated plants although they were still alive.
                                                    59

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
                                            EXAMPLE 14
       Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Water Extract of the Dried
                             Matter of Least Duckweed (Lemna minuta)
    [00187]         General Experimental Procedures: 180 g (dry weight) of air-dried whole
 5  plants of least duckweed (Lemna minuta) (Lemnaceae) was ground to a coarse powder and
    percolated three times with 95% EtOH (v/v) at RT (each 2 L, 24 h). After ethanol extraction,
    the residual plant matters were dried and then percolated two times with water at RT (each 2
    L, 24 h). Combined water solution was concentrated in vacuo to give water extract (12.2 g).
    1.0 g Duckweed water extract was dissolved in H2 0 to yield 900 mL 0.1% and 1,000 mL
 0  0.01% solutions (g/mL) for the giant salvinia inhibition experiment. The total 45 healthy and
    untreated living plants of giant salvinia (approximately 7 g in fresh weight each) were
    cultured and tested in plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) in the NCPC Lab at RT. The
    three treatments were as follows. Controls: 15 plants with five in each container (3
    replications) were cultured with 300 mL of tap water; 0.01% duckweed water extract
 5  treatment: 15 plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300 mL
    0.01% of the duckweed extracts dissolved in tap water; and 0.1% duckweed water extract
    treatment: 15 plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300 mL
    0.1% of the duckweed extracts dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and survival status were
    documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of 13th week, new
 '0 growth biomass of plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of new growth was a
    primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target plant.
    [00188]         Results: At the end of the 13th week of the experiment, each of the 15 giant
    salvinia plants in the control group had developed significant new growth (FIG. 28). By the
    same time, in the Treatment I group (0.01% water extract of least duckweed), six giant
25  salvinia plants had developed significant new growth and four plants had somewhat new
    growth, while the rest five plants were dead and had no new growth. The total new plant
    growth of the Treatment I was about 40% of that of Control (FIG. 29). However, all 15 giant
    salvinia plants in the Treatment II group (0.1% water extract of least duckweed) were dead
    and had no any new growth at all (FIGS. 28 and 29). Further, during the eight months of
30  observation, no recovery or new growth of giant salvinia were identified thereafter.
                                                  60

        WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
                                            EXAMPLE 15
      Elimination and Prohibition of Giant Salvinia Plants by Ethanol Extract of the Dried
                                      Matter of Least Duckweed
    [00189]         General Experimental Procedures: Air-dried whole plants (180 g) were
 5  ground to a coarse powder and percolated three times with 95% EtOH (v/v) at RT (each 2 L,
    24 h). The combined EtOH solution was concentrated under reduced pressure to give ethanol
    extract (6 g). 1.0 g duckweed ethanol extract was dissolved in 2 mL DMSO, and then diluted
    with water to yield 900 mL 0.1% and 1000 mL 0.01% solutions (g/mL) for the inhibition
    experiment. The total 45 healthy and untreated living plants of giant salvinia (approximately
 0  7 g in fresh weight each) were cultured and tested in plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L)
    in the NCPC Lab at RT. The three treatments were as follows. Controls: 15 plants with five
    in each container (3 replications) were cultured with 300 mL of tap water; 0.01% duckweed
    ethanol extract treatment: 15 plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed
    with 300 mL 0.01% of the duckweed extracts dissolved in tap water; and 0.1% duckweed
 5  ethanol extract treatment: 15 plants with five in each container (3 replications) were sprayed
    with 300 mL 0.l1% of the duckweed extracts dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and survival
    status were documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of 13th
    week, new growth biomass of plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of new
    growth was a primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target plant.
 '0 [00190]         Results: Similar to those observed at the experiment 5, all 15 giant salvinia
    plants in the control group had significant new growth at the end of the 13th week of the
    experiment (FIG. 30). By then the total new plant growth of the Treatment I group (0.01%
    ethanol extract of least duckweed) is less than 15% of that of Control (FIG. 29). During the
    same time, 12 giant salvinia plants in the Treatment II group (0.1% ethanol extract of least
25  duckweed) were dead and had no any new growth at all (FIGS. 29 and 30), and the rest three
    plants had dead mature tissues but developed somewhat new growth. However, the three new
    plants did not last long and eventually all 15 giant salvinia plants were dead by the end of 15
    weeks after the treatment and no new growth thereafter during the eight months of
    observation.
30
                                                   61

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
                                            EXAMPLE 16
         Elimination and Prohibition of Floating Fern (Salvinia minima) Plants by Water
                           Extract of the Dried Matter of Least Duckweed
    [00191]         General Experimental Procedures: The water extract of least duckweed
 5  used in this experiment was the same as used in Example 6. 1.0 g duckweed water extract
    was dissolved in H2 0 to yield 900 mL 0.1% and 1,000 mL 0.01% solutions (g/mL) for
    floating fern inhibition experiment. The total 90 healthy and untreated living plants of
    floating fern salvinia were cultured and tested in plastic containers (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) in
    the NCPC Lab at RT. The three treatments were as follows. Controls: 30 plants with 10 in
 0  each container (3 replications) were cultured with 300 mL of tap water; 0.01% duckweed
    water extract treatment: 30 plants with 10 in each container (3 replications) were sprayed
    with 300 mL 0.01% of the duckweed extracts dissolved in tap water; and 0.1% duckweed
    extract treatment: 30 plants with 10 in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300
    mL 0.1% of the duckweed extracts dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and survival status
 5  were documented and photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of 13th week,
    new growth biomass of plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of new growth
    was a primary factor to measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target plant.
    [00192]         Results: At the end of the 13th week of the experiment, each of the 30 floating
    fern plants in the control group had developed significant new growth (FIG. 31). The floating
 '0 fern plants had no response with the treatment at 0.01% water extract of least duckweed
    during the first 13 weeks of experiment (FIGS. 31 and 32). By the same time, the plants
    treated with 0.1% water extract of least duckweed had only about 350%of growth as observed
    in the control (FIGS. 31 and 32). However, plants treated with 0.01% or 0.1% water extract
    of least duckweed were all dead by 20 weeks while untreated plants had new growth.
25
                                            EXAMPLE 17
        Elimination and Prohibition of Floating Fern (Salvinia minima) Plants by Ethanol
                           Extract of the Dried Matter of Least Duckweed
    [00193]         General Experimental Procedures: The ethanol extract of least duckweed
30  used in this experiment was the same as used in the Experiment 7. 1.0 g duckweed ethanol
    extract was dissolved in 2 mL DMSO, and then diluted with water to yield 900 mL 0.1% and
    1000 mL 0.01% solutions (g/mL) for the inhibition experiment. The total 90 healthy and
                                                   62

       WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
    untreated living plants of floating fern salvinia were cultured and tested in plastic containers
    (14 x 15 cm, 0.68 L) in the NCPC Lab at RT. The three treatments were as follows. Controls:
    30 plants with 10 in each container (3 replications) were cultured with 300 mL of tap water;
    0.01% duckweed ethanol 0.01% duckweed extract treatment extract treatment: 30 plants with
 5  10 in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300 mL 0.01% of the duckweed
    extracts dissolved in tap water; and 0.l1% duckweed ethanol extract treatment: 30 plants with
    10 in each container (3 replications) were sprayed with 300 mL 0.1% of the duckweed
    extracts dissolved in tap water. Plant growth and survival status were documented and
    photographed weekly after the treatments. By the end of 13th week, new growth biomass of
 0  plants in each treatment was measured. The biomass of new growth was a primary factor to
    measure the inhibition of each treatment on the target plant.
    [00194]         Results: At the end of the 13th week of the experiment, each of the 30 floating
    fern plants in the control group had developed significant new growth (FIG. 33). More than
    80% of the floating fern plants were dead after the treatment at 0.01% ethanol extract of least
 5  duckweed and all plants treated with 0.l1% level were dead within the 13 weeks (FIGS. 32
    and 33). No new growth was observed thereafter during the eight months of observation.
                                             EXAMPLE 18
      Elimination and Prohibition of Brazilian Pepper Tree (Schinus terebinthifolius Raddi)
                 Seedlings by the Ethanol Extract of Brazilian Pepper Tree Fruits
 '0 [00195]         General Experimental Procedures: The fruits of Brazilian pepper tree (S.
    terebinthifolius) (200 g, in dry weight) and Chinese tallow tree (Triadica sebifera (L.) Small)
    (Eurphorbiaceae) (260 g, in dry weight) were ground to coarse powders and extracted two
    times with 70% ethanol at RT (each 2 L, 48 h). After evaporated under reduced pressure, 25.4
    g ethanol extract of Brazilian pepper tree and 27 g ethanol extract of Chinese tallow tree
25  (both in dry weight) were obtained, respectively. Each extract was dissolved in water and
    then was prepared as experimental solutions at the concentration of 10%, respectively. The
    spray treatment experiment included 36 Brazilian pepper tree seedlings (three weeks old) in
    pots cultured in the greenhouse (30 C). There were six treatments. Control: six seedlings
    were sprayed twice with a total 3 mL of tap water each time; surfactant treatment: six
30  seedlings were sprayed twice with a total 3 mL of tap water with 7.5 uL InletTM and 3.75 uL
    Kinetin* each time; Brazilian pepper tree extracts treatment: six seedlings were sprayed twice
    with total a 3 mL of 10% pepper tree fruit extracts each time; Brazilian pepper extracts with
                                                   63

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    surfactants treatment: six seedlings were sprayed twice with a total 3 mL of 10% pepper tree
    fruit extracts with 7.5 uL InletTM and 3.75 uL Kinetin* each time; Chinese tallow tree extracts
    treatment: six seedlings were sprayed twice with total 3 mL of 10% tallow tree fruit extracts
    each time; and Chinese tallow tree extracts with surfactants treatment: six seedlings were
 5  sprayed twice with total a 3 mL of 10% tallow extracts with 7.5 uL InletTM and 3.75 uL
    Kinetin* each time. In addition, newly-spread leaves of six seedlings of each of the three
    native species in North America, namely poison ivy (Toxicodendron radicans (L.) Kuntze or
    Rhus toxicodendron L.) (family Anacardiaceae), sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua L.)
    (family Altingiaceae), and Shumard oak (Quercus shumardii Buckland) (family Fagaceae)
 0  were sprayed twice with a total 3 mL of 10% pepper tree fruit extracts each time,
    respectively. Plant growth and survival status were documented and photographed daily after
    the treatments.
    [00196]         Results: All Brazilian pepper tree seedlings treated with Brazilian pepper tree
    extract or the extract with surfactants had significant damages three days after the first
 5  treatments (FIG. 34). Four weeks later, all six pepper tree seedlings were killed by the pepper
    tree extract with surfactants while five seedlings were killed and one was significantly
    damaged with dead apical bud and young leaves by the pepper tree extract (FIG. 34). In
    contrast, the Brazilian pepper tree plants had no damages in the control, surfactants, 10%
    ethanol extract of Chinese tallow tree fruits, or 10% ethanol extract of Chinese tallow tree
 '0 fruits with surfactants treatment. None of the poison ivy, sweetgum, or Shumard oak
    seedlings had any damages by the Brazilian pepper tree extract.
                                             EXAMPLE 19
     Elimination and Prohibition of Chinese Tallow Tree (Triadica sebifera (L.) Seedlings by
                          the Ethanol Extract of Chinese Tallow Tree Fruits
25  [00197]         General Experimental Procedures: The fruits of Chinese tallow tree
    (Triadica sebifera (L.) Small) (Eurphorbiaceae) (260 g, in dry weight) and Chinese privet
    (Ligustrum sinense Lour.) (family Oleaceae) (400 g, in dry weight) were ground to coarse
    powders and extracted two times with 70% ethanol at RT (each 2 L, 48 h), respectively. After
    evaporated under reduced pressure 27 g ethanol extract of Chinese tallow tree fruits and 25.3
30  g ethanol extract of Chinese privet fruits (both in dry weight) were obtained, respectively.
    Each extract was dissolved in water and then was prepared as experimental solutions at the
    concentration of 10%. The spray treatment experiment included 18 Chinese tallow tree
                                                   64

       WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
   seedlings (three weeks old) and 12 Chinese privet seedlings under the parent trees in the field.
   There were four treatments. Control: six seedlings of each species were sprayed with 3 mL of
   tap water; Chinese tallow tree extract treatment on Chinese tallow tree seedlings: six tallow
   tree seedlings were sprayed with 3 mL of 10% tallow tree fruit extract; Chinese tallow tree
 5 extract treatment on Chinese privet seedlings: six privet seedlings were sprayed with 3 mL of
   10% tallow tree fruit extract; and Chinese privet extract treatment on Chinese tallow tree
   seedlings: six tallow tree seedlings were sprayed with 3 mL of 10% Chinese privet fruit
   extract. Plant growth and survival status were documented and photographed daily after the
   treatments.
 0 [00198]         Results: All six Chinese tallow tree seedlings treated by the ethanol extract of
   Chinese tallow tree fruits were significantly damaged (FIG. 35). During the one week of
   experiments, two tallow tree seedlings were dead and four were severely injured. However,
   the tollowtree extract did not cause any damage in Chinese privet seedlings and the Chinese
   privet extract did not damage the tallow tree seedlings.
 5                                         EXAMPLE 20
   Elimination and Prohibition of the Red Imported Fire Ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) by
                        the Fire Ant Extracts and Formic and Acetic Acids
   [00199]         General Experimental Procedures: Preparation of the fire ant extracts: (1)
   Acetone extract: 97 g (in fresh weight) of the red imported fire ant workers were extracted
 0 two times with acetone at RT (each 250 mL, 24 h). After evaporated under reduced pressure,
   the combined extractions yielded 2.13 g (in dry weight) acetone extract. (2) Ethanol extract:
   110 g (in fresh weight) of the whole worker bodies of the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis
   invicta Buren) (family Furmicidae) were extracted two times with 95% EtOH at RT (each
   250 mL, 24 h). After evaporated under reduced pressure, the combined extractions yielded
25 2.72 g (in dry weight) ethanol extract. Both extracts were dissolved in water and then
   prepared as experimental solutions at the concentration of 0.1%, 1%, 5%, and 10%,
   respectively. Preparation of the formic and acetic acids: Formic acid (88%, Sigma Aldrich)
   and acetic acid (99.7, ACS reagent grade, VWR International LLC) were prepared as
   solutions at the concentration of 0.1%, 1%, and 5% immediately before the bioassay
30 experiments. Detection of formic acid by NMR analysis: Approximately 100 fire ant workers
   were anesthetized by CO 2 and dissolved in 1 mL deuterated CHCl 3 (chroroform). The
   mixture was put under ultrasound for 30 min extraction. The fire ants were then removed and
                                                  65

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    the extract was dried with anhydrous magnesium sulfate. 500 gL of the extract was
    transferred to NMR tube for detection. 1H-NMR experiments were performed on a JEOL
    ECS 400 spectrometer, with spectroscopic data referenced to the solvent used. According to
    standard formic acid 1H-NMR spectrum, the unique singlet of the aldehyde proton should
 5  appear at  6H 8.02. Contact Toxicity Assays: (1) The impacts of acetone and ethanol extracts
    of the red imported fire ants on the fire ants: the experiment includes nine treatments and
    each treatment had the total 150 workers of the red imported fire ant with 50 ants in each of
    the three 100 mL beakers (as three replications). The ants in each beaker were topically
    sprayed with a total 1 mL of 0.1%, 1%, 5%, or 10% solutions of either acetone or ethanol
 0  extract, respectively. The control group was sprayed with 1 mL pure water. The beakers in all
    treatments were covered by cloth to prevent the escape of the fire ants. The surviving number
    of the fire ants in each treatment was counted by 1 h interval for 7 h. (2) The impacts of
    formic and acetic acids on the fire ants: the experiment had seven treatments and each
    treatment had the total 150 workers of the red imported fire ant with 50 ants in each of the
 5  three 100 mL beakers (as three replications). The ants in each beaker were topically sprayed
    with a total 1 mL of 0.1%, 1%, or 5% solutions of either formic or acetic acids, respectively.
    The control group was sprayed with 1 mL pure water. The beakers in all treatments were
    covered by cloth to prevent the escape of fire ants. The surviving number of the fire ants in
    each treatment was counted by 1 h interval for 7 h. For extracts and acids, LD 50 (the dose
 '0 required to kill half of the exposed fire ants) and LD 90 (the dose required to kill 90% of the
    exposed fire ants) were calculated by the PROBIT procedure of SPSS 13.0 for Windows. (3)
    The impacts of combined application of ethanol extract and formic acid on the fire ants: The
    experiment had the total 720 workers of the red imported fire ants with 30 ants in each of the
    24 Petri Dishes (85 mm in diameter). Control: the ants in three dishes had no treatment;
25  Water treatment: the ants in each of the three dishes were in contact with 1 mL water for 10
    sec; 2.5% ethanol extract treatment: the ants in each of the three dishes were in contacted
    with 1 mL of 2.5% ethanol extract for 10 sec; 2.5% formic acid treatment: the ants in each of
    the three dishes were in contacted with 1 mL of 2.5% formic acid for 10 sec; mixture of
    ethanol extract (2.5%) and formic acid (2.5%) treatment: the ants in each of the three dishes
30  were in contacted with 1 mL of a mixture of ethanol extract and formic acid (each had 2.5%
    in concentration in the mixture) for 10 sec; 5% ethanol extract treatment: the ants in each of
    the three dishes were in contacted with 1 mL of 5% ethanol extract for 10 sec; 5% formic
    acid treatment: the ants in each of the three dishes were in contacted with 1 mL of 5% formic
                                                    66

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    acid for 10 sec; and mixture of ethanol extract (5%) and formic acid (5%) treatment: the ants
    in each of the three dishes were in contacted with 1 mL of a mixture of ethanol extract and
    formic acid (each had 5% in concentration in the mixture) for 10 sec. The surviving number
    of the fire ants in each treatment was counted by 15 min interval for 90 min. (4) The impacts
 5  of combined application of ethanol extract and formic acid on the injured fire ants: The 450
    workers of the red imported fire ants were placed in 15 Petri Dishes (85 mm in diameter)
    with 30 in each dish. The ants were anesthetized by CO 2 and then each ant was injured in its
    gaster by pin. Control: the ants in three dishes had no treatment; Water treatment: the ants in
    each of the three dishes were in contact with 1 mL water for 10 sec; 1.25% ethanol extract
 0  treatment: the ants in each of the thee dishes were in contacted with 1 mL of 1.25% ethanol
    extract for 10 sec; 1.25% formic acid treatment: the ants in each of the thee dishes were in
    contact with 1 mL of 1.25% formic acid for 10 sec; and mixture of ethanol extract (1.25%)
    and formic acid (1.25%) treatment: the ants in each of the three dishes were in contacted with
    1 mL of a mixture of ethanol extract and formic acid (each had 1.25% in concentration in the
 5  mixture) for 10 sec. The surviving number of the fire ants in each treatment was counted by
    15 min interval for 90 min. (5) The impacts of ethanol extract of the red imported fire ants on
    subterranean termite (Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar)) (family Rhinotermitidae):            the
    experiment included five treatments and each treatment had 150 subterranean termites with
    20 workers, 10 soldiers and 5 winged reproductive ants in each of the three 100 mL beakers
 '0 (as three replications). The termites in each beaker were topically sprayed with a total 1 mL
    of 0.1%, 1%, 5%, or 10% solutions of ethanol extract, respectively. The control group was
    sprayed with 1 mL pure water. The beakers in all treatments were covered by cloth to prevent
    the escape of fire ants. The surviving number of the fire ants in each treatment was counted
    by 1 h interval for 7 h. Fumigation Toxicity Assays of Formic Acid: The experiment included
25  approximately 300 workers of the fire ants in each container with the filter paper treated with
    10 mL of 0.1%, 1%, or 50%formic acid, respectively. The surviving number of the fire ants in
    each treatment was counted by 1 h interval for 2 h. LD 50 (the dose required to kill half of the
    exposed fire ants) and LD 90 (the dose required to kill 90% of the exposed fire ants) were
    calculated by the PROBIT procedure of SPSS 13.0 for Windows.
30  [00200]         Results: The topical applications of both the extracts of the red imported fire
    ants and the organic acids inhibited the fire ants. Both formic acid and acetic acid were not
    detected in chloroform, acetone, or ethanol extract according to the NMR analysis. The
                                                   67

        WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
    ethanol extract showed more significant toxicity against the fire ants than the acetone extract.
    During the 7 h contact toxicity bioassays, an average of approximately 60%, 70%, or 80% of
    the fire ants in contact with 1%, 5%, or 10% ethanol extract were dead, respectively (FIG.
    36). In contact toxicity bioassays, 7 h LD50 and LD 90 of formic acid, acetic acid, ethanol
 5  extract, and acetone extract for the fire ants was 1.9% and 5.09%, 6.42% and 9.96%, 1.81%
    and 15.58%, and 18.67% and 34.18%, respectively. Formic acid had a more significant
    impact on survival of fire ants than acetic acid. During the 90 min of contact toxicity
    bioassay, the average mortality with 2.5% and 5% formic acid was more than 70% or 100%,
    respectively (FIG. 37). In fumigation bioassays, 2 h LD 50 and LD 90 of formic acid for the fire
 0  ants was 0.5% and 0.9%, respectively. The combined application of ethanol extract of the fire
    ants and formic acid had more significant effects on fire ant survival than use of either
    ethanol extract or formic acid alone (FIGS. 37 and 38). However, the ethanol extract of the
    fire ants had no impacts on subterranean termite.
                                             EXAMPLE 21
 5       Elimination and Prohibition of the Subterranean Termite (Reticulitermes flavipes
                                       (Kollar)) by Formic Acid
    [00201]         General Experimental Procedures: Formic acid (90.4%, certified ACS
    reagent grade, Fisher Scientific Company, Fair Lawn, NJ, USA) was prepared as solutions at
    the concentration of 0.1%, 1%, and 5% immediately before the bioassay experiments.
 '0 Detection of formic acid by NMR analysis: Approximately 100 termites were anesthetized by
    CO 2 and dissolved in 1 mL deuterated CHCl 3 (chroroform). The mixture was put under
    ultrasound for 30 min extraction. The termites were then removed and the extract was dried
    with anhydrous magnesium sulfate. 500 gL of the extract was transferred to NMR tube for
    detection. 1H-NMR experiments were performed on a JEOL ECS 400 spectrometer, with
25  spectroscopic data referenced to the solvent used. According to standard formic acid 1H
    NMR spectrum, the unique singlet of the aldehyde proton should appear at       6H 8.02. Contact
    Toxicity Assays: The experiment included five treatments and each treatment had total 105
    subterranean termite (Reticulitermesflavipes (Kollar)) (family Rhinotermitidae) including 20
    workers, 10 soldiers and 5 winged reproductives (alates) in each of the three 100 mL beakers
30  (as three replications). The termites in each beaker were topically sprayed with a total 1 mL
    of 0.1%, 1%, 5%, or 10% solutions of formic acid, respectively. The control group was
    sprayed with 1 mL pure water. The beakers in all treatments were covered by cloth to prevent
                                                   68

       WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
   the escape of termites. The surviving number of the termites in each treatment was counted
   by 1 h interval for 7 h.
   [00202]         Results: The NMR analysis indicated that the subterranean termites contained
   significant amount of formic acid (FIG. 39). Formic acid at higher concentrations (5 or 10%)
5  killed all termites (including workers, soldiers, and reproductive) during the first hour of
   contact experiment. During the 7 h of contact toxicity bioassays, formic acid at 1%
   concentration killed more than 40% of the termites (FIG. 40). However, formic acid at 0.l1%
   concentration had no impact on the termites. In the contact toxicity bioassays, 7 h LD50 and
   LD 90 of formic acid for the termite was 4.71 % and 9.08%, respectively.
0
   [00203]         All of the methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed
   without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and
   methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments, it will be
   apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the methods and in the
5  steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the
   concept, spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically, it will be apparent that certain
   agents that are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents
   described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar
   substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the
'0 spirit, scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.
                                                   69

       WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
                                              REFERENCES
            The following references, to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or
    other details supplementary to those set forth herein, are specifically incorporated herein by
    reference.
 5  Abbasi & Nipaney, Environ. Conserv. 13: 235-241, 1986.
    Abdul-Rahman and Habib, J. Chem. Ecol. 15: 2289-2300, 1989.
    Ascune, et al., Science 331: 1066-1068, 2011.
    Baldwin & Callahan, Oecologia 94: 534-541, 1993.
    Barrett, Sci. Amer. 260: 90-97, 1989.
 0  Barthlott, et al., Botany. 87: 830-836, 2009.
    Batish, et al., Environ. Exp. Bot. 47: 149-155, 2002.
    Beck, et al., Invasive Pl. Sci. Manag. 1: 414-421, 2008.
    Chen, et al., J. Agric. Food Chem. 57: 3128-3133, 2009.
    Chon, et al., Crop Protect.21(10): 1077-1082, 2002.
 5  Chou& Kuo, J. Chem. Ecol. 12(6): 1431-1448, 1986.
    Chou & Lin, J. Chem. Ecol. 2: 353-367, 1976.
    Choudhary, et al., Phytochemistry 69: 1018-1023, 2008.
    Ding, et al., Chem. Pharm.Bull. 47: 652-655, 1999.
    Finlayson, Aquat. Bot. 18: 257-262, 1984.
 '0 Fowden & Lea, In: Herbivores: their interaction with secondary plant metabolites. Academic
            Press, New York, pp 135-160, 1979.
    Gog, et al., Chemoecology 15: 115-119, 2005.
    Hedge and Miller, Crop Sci. 30(6): 1255-1259, 1990.
    Heisey, In: Biological active natural products: agrochemicals. CRC Press, Florida, pp. 57-68,
25          1999.
    Hoffman, Curr. Opin. Allergy Clin. Immunol. 10: 342-346, 2010.
    Javaid, et al., Pak. J. Bot. 39(7): 2611-2618, 2007.
    Jubinsky & Anderson, Catanea 61(3): 226-231, 1996.
    Julien, et al., In Biological control of tropical weeds using arthropods. Cambridge University
30          Press, 2009.
    Kato-Noguchi & Ota, J. Rice Res. 1: 108, 2013
                                                     70

       WO 2014/182627                                                    PCT/US2014/036837
   Li, A system for increasing the production of indole and quinoline alkaloids, particularly
           camptothecins and related compounds, from plants, 2002.
   Li, et al., Front.Biosci. E2: 1196-1210, 2010.
   Maurya, et al., Phytochemistry 65: 915-920, 2004.
5  McKey, Am. Nat. 108: 305-320, 1974.
   Morgan, Myrmecol.News 11: 79-90, 2008.
   Morrison, et al., Biol. Invasions 6: 193-191, 2004.
   Narasimhulua, et al., Nat. Prod.Res. 24: 1390-1394, 2010.
   Paudel, J. PlantSci. 6: 85-92, 2009.
0  Picman & Picman, Biochem. Syst. Ecol. 12(3): 287-292, 1984.
   Pimentel, et al. Environmental and economic costs associated with nonindigenous species in
           the United States, 1999.
   Quintana, et al., Phytochemistry 69: 2572-2578, 2008.
   Room, et al., Trends Ecol. Evol. 5: 74-79, 1990.
5  Room & Thomas, J. Apple. Ecol. 23: 1013-1028, 1986.
   Schooler, et al., Nature 470: 86-89, 2011.
   Singh, et al., Crit.Rev. PlantSci. 18: 757-772, 1999.
   Sirikantaramas, et al., Phytochem. Rev. 7: 467-477, 2008a.
   Sirikantaramas, et al., PNAS. 105: 6782-6786, 2008b.
'0 USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. Giant Salvinia - Pest Alert, 2000.
   Wang, Ann. Rev. Biochem. 65: 635-692, 1996.
   Wu, et al., J. Nat. Prod. 74: 989-996, 2011.
   Wyman-Simpson, et al., PlantSoil 135: 83-94, 1991.
   Xuan, et al.Agron. Sustain. Dev. 26: 89-97, 2006.
                                                  71

    WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
                                          CLAIMS
1.      A method of controlling the growth of a first invasive species comprising applying a
composition comprising a natural pesticide to the invasive species, wherein the natural
pesticide is derived from a second invasive species.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the growth of the invasive species is halted.
3.      The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the invasive species is eliminated.
4.      The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the first invasive species is the same as the
second invasive species.
5.      The method of claim 4, wherein the natural pesticide is an endocide.
6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the endocide is a compound isolated from the first
invasive species.
7.      The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the first invasive species is different from
the second invasive species.
8.      The method of claim 7, wherein the natural pesticide is a compound isolated from the
second invasive species.
9.      The method of any of claims 1-5 or 7, wherein the natural pesticide is an extract or
fraction thereof.
10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the extract is an aqueous or organic extract or
fraction thereof.
11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the extract is a dry or solubilized extract.
12.     The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the natural pesticide is dry matter.
13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the dry matter is ground or processed.
                                              72

    WO 2014/182627                                                                                       PCT/US2014/036837
14.    The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the natural pesticide is fresh matter.
15.    The method of claim 14, wherein the fresh matter is chopped or blended.
16.    The method of claim 15, wherein the natural pesticide is an extract or fraction
expressed from the chopped or blended fresh matter.
17.    The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the natural pesticide is a compound of
formula:
                                                               R1
                                                        R     7       R 12
                                                                       06
                                          R8 3'R   K511                    0
                                                4     2'       3               6
                                      R7    '\      /j1'        10         1
                                               5'      6, O        0    4"     O2
                                          R6          R5                   2" - R2
                                                                           R3
wherein:
       each of R1 , R 2, R 3 , R 4 is independently -H, -OH, -halogen, -NH 2 , -COOH,
                C(O)NH 2 , -SH,          -S(O)NH 2, -S(O) 2 NH 2 , -OCH 20R1 3, -OC(O)R 1 3 ,
                OC(O)OR 13 ,         -OC(O)NR 1 3,            -OP(O)(OR               ),
                                                                                    13 2       -SR 13 ,     -S(O)        2 NHR 13 ,
                OP(O)(OR         ) , -SOR
                               13 2          13 ,  -S(O)    2 R 1 3 , -NHC(O)R 1 3, -NHSOR                    13,  NHS(O) 2 R1 3 ,
                OPO(OR14)2,          -O-arylPO(OR           14) 2,    or -O-alkylarylPO(OR                     14) 2,     -NHR 13,
                N(R 13 ) 2 , -C(S) R 13, -OR       13 ,
       each of R 5 , R 6, R 7, Rs, R 9 , Rio, R1 1 , R 1 2 is independently -H, -OH, -halogen, -CN,
                NH 2 ,     -NO 2 , -COOH, -C(O)NH 2 , -SH, -S(O)NH 2, -S(O) 2NH 2, -C 1 -Cio
                (oxy)alkyl, - C1 -Cio alky, -C 1 -Cio alkoxy, -C 1 -Cio (hydroxyl)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio
                (amino)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio (halo)alkyl, -C 2 -Cio alkenyl,                            -    C2 -Cio (aryl)alkyl,
                CH 2OR 1 3 , -OCH 2OR 1 3, -OC(O)R 1 3, -C(O)R 1 3, -OC(O)OR                                13,   -OC(O)NR 1 3 ,
                C(O)O R 13 , -C(O)NR 1 3 , -OP(O)(OR                     ) , -SR
                                                                       13 2            13 , -S(O)    2 NHR 13 , -C(O)NR          13  ,
                OP(O)(OR13 ) 2, -SR        13 ,   -S(0    2)NHR 13 ,       -SOR        13 ,  -S(O)    2 R1 3 ,   -NHC(O)R 1 3,
                NHSOR 13,         NHS(O) 2 R1 3 ,          -OPO(OR          14 ) 2 ,     -O-arylPO(OR             14 ) 2 ,  or      -0
                alkylarylPO(OR 14) 2 , -isocyanate, -azido, and
       R 14 is -H, -C 1 -Cio alkyl, C 7 -C 1 3 arylalkyl, C1-Cioaminoalkyl, C1 -Cio haloalkyl, C1 -Cio
                                                            73

    WO 2014/182627                                                            PCT/US2014/036837
                 hydroxyalkyl, CI-Cio alkoxy, -isocyanate, -azido, -imino, -thio, and R13 is
                 H, -C 1 -Cio alkyl, -(C 3 -C 7 ) cycloalkyl, -CI-Cio (halo)alkyl, -aryl, -C 2 -Cio
                 alkenyl, -C 2 -Cio, -C 2 -Cio alkynyl, -CI-Cio (aryl)alkyl, -C 2 -Cio (aryl)alkenyl,
                 -C 2 -Cio (aryl)alkynyl, -C 1 -Cio (hydroxyl)alkyl, -CI-Cio        alkoxy, -CI-Cio
                 (amino)alkyl, -isocyanate, -azido, -imino, -thio, -alkenyloxy, -alkynyloxy,
                 aryloxy, -aralkoxy, -heteroaryloxy, -acyloxy, -alkoxyamino, -alkenylamino,
                 -alkynylamino,       -arylamino,        -aralkylamino,    -heteroarylamino,
                 alkylsulfonylamino, -heterocycloalkyl, -heteroaryl.
18.     The method of any of claims 1-8, wherein the natural pesticide is a compound of
formula:
                                              HO      7
                                                          6O
                                                0     4        O1Q
                                 HO             ,\    1o-       \ O3
                                                                  1
                                     HO                              R2
                                                       HOHO         '60R
                                                                      1
                                                               OH
wherein
        R1 is OH or a-H; and
        R 2 is P-H or OH.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein R 1 = OH, R 2        = P-H.
20.     The method of claim 18, wherein R 1 = a-H, R 2       = OH.
21.     The method of claim 18, wherein R 1 = OH, R 2        = OH.
22.     The method of claim 18, wherein R 1 = a-H, R 2       = P-H.
23.     The method of any of claims 1-17, wherein the invasive species is an invasive plant or
animal.
                                                   74

    WO 2014/182627                                                          PCT/US2014/036837
24.      The method of claim 23, wherein the invasive plant is a plant with trichomes as the
primary accumulation sites of bioactive compounds.
25.      The method of claim 23, wherein the invasive plant is a terrestrial plant.
26.      The method of claim 23, wherein the invasive plant is an aquatic plant.
27.      The method of claim 26, wherein the invasive aquatic plant is Salvinia adnata, S.
auriculata, S. biloba, S. cucullata, S. cyathiformis, S. hastata, S. herzogii, S. martynii, S.
minima, S. molesta, S. natans, S. nymphellula, S. oblongifolia, S. radula, S. rotundifolia, S.
spruce, Azolla caroliniana,A. circinata,A. cristata, A. filiculoides, A. japonica,A mexicana,
A. microphylla, A. nilotica, A. pinnata, A. rubra, Lemna minuta, Eichharnia crassipes, or
Pistiastratiotes.
28.      The method of claim 27, wherein the invasive plant is Salvinia molesta, Salvinia
minima, Azolla caroliniana,Lemna minuta, Eichharniacrassipes, or Pistiastratiotes.
29.      The method of any of claims 1-28, wherein the growth of the invasive plant is halted
within 1 week or 1 month.
30.      The method of any of claims 1-29, wherein the growth of the invasive plant is halted
for at least 1 year.
31.      The method of any of claims 1-30, wherein the composition comprising the natural
pesticide is applied topically.
32.      The method of claim 31, wherein the composition is applied to the trichomes of the
invasive plant.
33.      The method of claim 31, wherein the composition is sprayed onto the invasive plant.
34.      The method of any of claims 1-30, wherein the composition is spread around the
invasive plant.
                                              75

    WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
35.     The method of any of claims 1-30, wherein the composition is dissolved in water
surrounding the invasive plant.
36.     The method of any of claims 1-35, wherein the composition contains about 0.01 to
about 0.5% by weight of the natural pesticide.
37.     The method of claim 36, wherein the composition contains about 0.1% by weight of
the natural pesticide.
38.     The method of any of claims 1-22, further comprising applying a secondary agent.
39.     The method of claim 38, wherein the secondary agent is formic acid, acetic acid,
diquat (diquat dibromide), glyphosate, contact herbicides, other biocides, the salvinia weevil,
or biocontrol agents.
40.     A composition for controlling the growth of a first invasive plant species comprising a
natural pesticide, wherein the natural pesticide is derived from a second invasive plant
species.
41.     The composition of claim 40, wherein the first invasive species is the same as the
second invasive species.
42.     The composition of claim 41, wherein the natural pesticide is an endocide.
43.     The composition of claim 42, wherein the endocide is a compound isolated from the
species of invasive plant to be controlled.
44.     The composition of claim 40, wherein the first invasive species is different from the
second invasive species.
45.     The composition of claim 44, wherein the natural pesticide is a compound isolated
from the second invasive plant species.
                                               76

    WO 2014/182627                                                        PCT/US2014/036837
46.     The composition of any of claims 40-45, wherein the natural pesticide is an extract or
fraction thereof.
47.     The composition of claim 46, wherein the extract is an aqueous or organic extract or
fraction thereof.
48.     The composition of claim 46, wherein the extract is a dry or solubilized extract.
49.     The composition of any of claims 40-45, wherein the natural pesticide is dry plant
matter.
50.     The composition of claim 49, wherein the dry plant matter is ground or processed.
51.     The composition of any of claims 40-45, wherein the natural pesticide is fresh plant
matter.
52.     The composition of claim 40, wherein the fresh plant matter is chopped or blended.
53.     The method of claim 40, wherein the natural pesticide is an extract or fraction
expressed from the chopped or blended fresh matter.
54.     The method of any of claims 40-45, wherein the natural pesticide is a compound of
formula:
                                                      R1
                                                R0 8 7      R1 2
                                                                    6
                                      R8 3'R9K               110
                                           -   2'      3            6"
                                 R7      '      6, O   10     4
                                          5R    6         0      "0    R2
                                      R6
                                                         R4 3" 21';R
                                                                 R3
wherein:
        each of R1 , R 2, R 3 , R 4 is independently -H, -OH, -halogen, -NH 2 , -COOH,
               C(O)NH 2 , -SH,        -S(O)NH 2, -S(O) 2 NH 2 , -OCH 20R1 3, -OC(O)R 1 3 ,
                                                    77

    WO 2014/182627                                                                                            PCT/US2014/036837
                OC(O)OR 13 ,           -OC(O)NR 1 3,             -OP(O)(OR              13 )2,      -SR 13 ,     -S(O)         2 NHR 13 ,
                OP(O)(OR           ) , -SOR
                                13 2           13 ,  -S(O)     2 R 1 3 , -NHC(O)R 1 3 , -NHSOR                     13 ,  NHS(O) 2 R1 3 ,
                OPO(OR 14 ) 2 , -O-arylPO(OR1 4) 2, or -O-alkylarylPO(OR1 4) 2, -NHR                                                  13,
                N(R 13 ) 2 , -C(S) R 13, -OR         13 ,
       each of R 5 , R 6, R 7, Rs, R 9 , Rio, R1 1 , R 1 2 is independently -H, -OH, -halogen, -CN,
                NH 2 ,     -NO 2 , -COOH, -C(O)NH 2 , -SH, -S(O)NH 2, -S(O) 2NH 2 , -C 1 -Cio
                (oxy)alkyl, - C1 -Cio alky, -C 1 -Cio alkoxy, -C 1 -Cio (hydroxyl)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio
                (amino)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio (halo)alkyl, -C 2 -Cio alkenyl,                                 -    C2 -Cio (aryl)alkyl,
                CH 2 0R 1 3 , -OCH 20R1 3, -OC(O)R 1 3 , -C(O)R 1 3 , -OC(O)OR                                   13,    -OC(O)NR 1 3 ,
                C(O)O R 13 , -C(O)NR 1 3 , -OP(O)(OR                      13) 2 ,  -SR      13 , -S(O)    2 NHR 13 , -C(O)NR            13  ,
                OP(O)(OR        13 ) 2, -SR  13 ,   -S(0     2)NHR 13 ,       -SOR          13 ,  -S(O)    2 R1 3 ,   -NHC(O)R 1 3,
                NHSOR 13,            NHS(O) 2 R1 3 ,          -OPO(OR           1 4) 2 ,      -O-arylPO(OR              14 ) 2 ,  or      -0
                alkylarylPO(OR1 4) 2 , -isocyanate, -azido, and
       R 14 is -H, -C 1 -Cio alkyl, C 7 -C 1 3 arylalkyl, C1-Cioaminoalkyl, C1 -Cio haloalkyl, C1 -Cio
                hydroxyalkyl, C 1-Cio alkoxy, -isocyanate, -azido, -imino, -thio, and R13 is
                H, -C 1 -Cio alkyl, -(C 3 -C 7 ) cycloalkyl, -C 1 -Cio (halo)alkyl, -aryl, -C 2 -Cio
                alkenyl, -C 2 -Cio, -C 2 -Cio alkynyl, -C 1 -Cio (aryl)alkyl, -C 2 -Cio (aryl)alkenyl,
                -C 2 -Cio     (aryl)alkynyl, -C 1 -Cio (hydroxyl)alkyl, -C 1 -Cio alkoxy, -C 1 -Cio
                (amino)alkyl, -isocyanate, -azido, -imino, -thio, -alkenyloxy, -alkynyloxy,
                aryloxy, -aralkoxy, -heteroaryloxy, -acyloxy, -alkoxyamino, -alkenylamino,
                -alkynylamino,              -arylamino,                 -aralkylamino,                  -heteroarylamino,
                alkylsulfonylamino, -heterocycloalkyl, -heteroaryl.
55.    The composition of any of claims 40-45, wherein the natural pesticide is a compound
of formula:
                                                       HO           7
                                                          10        4       110
                                                       33
                                       HOoHO4'               2
                                           HO           '                    4         0R2
                                                                     HO        '  2"R          1
                                                                                 OH
wherein
                                                               78

    WO 2014/182627                                                         PCT/US2014/036837
        R1 is OH or a-H; and
        R 2 is P-H or OH.
56.     The composition of claim 55, wherein R 1  = OH, R 2  = P-H.
57.     The composition of claim 55, wherein R 1  = a-H, R 2 = OH.
58.     The composition of claim 55, wherein R 1  = OH, R 2  = OH.
59.     The composition of claim 55, wherein R 1  = a-H, R 2 = P-H.
60.     The composition of any of claims 40-57, wherein the invasive plant is an aquatic
plant.
61.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the invasive aquatic plant is Salvinia adnata,S.
auriculata, S. biloba, S. cucullata, S. cyathiformis, S. hastata, S. herzogii, S. martynii, S.
minima, S. molesta, S. natans, S. nymphellula, S. oblongifolia, S. radula, S. rotundifolia, S.
spruce, Azolla caroliniana,A. circinata,A. cristata, A. filiculoides, A. japonica,A mexicana,
A. microphylla, A. nilotica, A. pinnata, A. rubra, Lemna minuta, Eichharnia crassipes, or
Pistiastratiotes.
62.     The composition of claim 60, wherein the invasive plant is Salvinia molesta, Salvinia
minima, Azolla caroliniana,Lemna minuta, Eichharniacrassipes, or Pistiastratiotes.
63.     The composition of any of claims 40-62, wherein the composition contains about 0.01
to about 0.5% by weight of the natural pesticide.
64.     The composition of claim 63, wherein the composition contains about 0.l1% by weight
of the natural pesticide.
                                              79

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
