DISTRIBUTED LIGHTING CONTROL
ABSTRACT
       Apparatuses, methods and systems for controlling a luminaire are disclosed. One
embodiment includes a lighting control sub-system. The lighting control sub-system includes a
luminaire, a controller coupled to the luminaire, and a sensor coupled to the controller. The sensor
generates a sensed input. The lighting control sub-system further includes a communication
interface, wherein the communication interface couples the controller to an external device. The
controller is operative to control a light output of the luminaire based at least in part on the sensed
input, and to communicate at least one of state or sensed information to the external device.

                                                      1
DISTRIBUTED LIGHTING CONTROL
Related Applications
       This patent application is an Australian divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2013293408 filed 1 July 2013. Australian Patent Application No. 2013293408 claims priority
from US Patent Application Serial No. 13/556,442 filed 24 July 2012. US Patent Application Serial
No. 13/556,442 is a continuation-in-part (CIP) of US Patent Application Serial No. 12/639,303 filed
16 December 2009. Australian Patent Application No. 2013293408, US Patent Application Serial
No. 13/556,442, and of US Patent Application Serial No. 12/639,303 are all herein incorporated by
reference in entirety.
Field of the Embodiments
       The described embodiments relate generally to lighting. More particularly, the described
embodiments relate to distributed lighting control.
Background
       Lighting control systems automate the operation of lighting within a building or residence
based upon, for example, preset time schedules and/or occupancy and/or daylight sensing. The
Lighting systems typically employ occupancy sensors and/or daylight sensors to determine which
lighting devices to activate, deactivate, or adjust the light level of, and when to do so. Occupancy
sensors typically sense the presence of one or more persons within a defined area and generate
signals indicative of that presence. Daylight sensors typically sense the amount of daylight present
within a defined area and generate signals indicative of that amount. Typically, lighting systems
receive the sensor signals at a central lighting controller.
       The lighting systems are advantageous because they typically reduce energy costs by
automatically lowering light levels or turning off devices and appliances when not needed, and they
can allow all devices in the system to be controlled from one location. Centrally controlled lighting
systems can be disadvantageous because all decision making occurs at the controller. Therefore, if
the controller becomes inoperative, all lighting devices in the system are no longer under automated
control and some or all may not operate even manually. Similarly, if a connection to or from the
controller is severed, the lighting devices served by that connection are no longer under automated
control and also may not operate manually. Partial or system-wide functional changes, such as an
immediate need to override current system settings (for example, during a fire or other

emergency), cannot be made from anywhere but the controller. Additionally, centrally
controlled systems are limited in their ability to be scaled. That is, it is not easy to add
new lighting devices to a centrally-controlled system.
        It is desirable to have a method, system and apparatus for providing lighting
devices that can be independently controllable, or controlled.
 Summary
        One embodiment includes a lighting control sub-system. The lighting control
sub-system includes a luminaire, a controller coupled to the luminaire, and a sensor
coupled to the controller. The sensor generates a sensed input. The lighting control sub
system further includes a communication interface, wherein the communication interface
couples the controller to an external device. The controller is operative to control a light
output of the luminaire based at least in part on the sensed input, and to communicate at
least one of state or sensed information to the external device.
        Another embodiment includes a lighting control system. The lighting control
system includes a plurality of sub-systems, wherein each sub-system includes a
luminaire, a controller coupled to the luminaire, and at least one sensor coupled to the
controller. The at least one sensor generates a sensed input. Each sub-system further
includes a communication interface, wherein the communication interface couples the
controller to an external device. Each of the controllers is operative to control a light
output of the luminaire, and communicate at least one of state or sensed information to at
least one of a central controller or another sub-system.
        Another embodiment includes a lighting control system. The lighting control
system includes a plurality of sub-systems, wherein two or more sub-systems capable of
acting as a group, and wherein each sub-system capable of independent action. Each of
the sub-systems includes a luminaire, a controller electrically connected to said
luminaire, said controller operative to control the light output of said luminaire and to
                                               2

communicate with other sub-systems, and, at least one sensor connected to said
controller.
        Another embodiment includes a lighting control system for integration with
existing luminaires. The lighting control system includes a controller coupled to a
luminaire, a sensor coupled to the controller, the sensor generating a sensed input, and a
communication interface, wherein the communication interface couples the controller to
an external device. Each controller is operative to control a light output of the luminaire,
and communicate at least one of state or sensed information to the external device.
        Other aspects and advantages of the described embodiments will become apparent
from the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings, illustrating by way of example the principles of the described embodiments.
        Brief Description of the Drawings
        Figure 1 shows a lighting control sub-system, according to an embodiment.
        Figure 2 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes sub-systems,
        according to an embodiment.
        Figure 3 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes sub-systems and
        a central controller, according to an embodiment.
        Figure 4 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes a logical group
        of sub-systems, according to an embodiment.
        Figure 5 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes that includes a
        logical group of sub-systems and a central controller, according to an
        embodiment.
        Figure 6 is a flow chart that includes steps of a method of operating a lighting
        control sub-system, according to an embodiment.
                                               3

        Figure 7 shows another example of lighting control sub-systems (independently
        controlled lights) interfaced with a central controller.
        Figure 8 shows an embodiment of an independently controllable light.
        Figure 9 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of timing events as
        one of the independently controllable lights is powered on.
        Figure 10 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of timing events
        while an independently controllable light is operating.
        Figure 11 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of events while an
        independently controllable light is increasing its light level.
        Figure 12 is a flow chart that includes steps of an example a method of adjustably
        increasing a light level of a light fixture.
        Figure 13 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of events while an
        independently controllable light is decreasing its light level.
        Figure 14 is a flow chart that includes steps of an example a method of adjustably
        decreasing a light level of a light fixture.
        Figure 15 is a flow chart that includes an example of a method of controlling a
        light fixture.
        Detailed Description
        As shown in the drawings, the described embodiments are embodied in an
apparatus and method for providing independently controllable lights (lighting sub
systems). At least some embodiments of the independently controllable lights each
include a controller, an actuator and sensors. These configurations provide advantages
over conventional centrally controlled lighting control system that include distributed
sensors.
                                                 4

         Figure 1 shows a lighting control sub-system 100, according to an embodiment.
The exemplary lighting control sub-system 100 includes a smart sensor system 102 that is
interfaced with a high-voltage manager 104, which is interfaced with a luminaire 110.
The high-voltage manager 104 includes a controller (manager CPU) 120 that is coupled
to the luminaire 110, and to a smart sensor CPU 135 of the smart sensor system 102. As
shown, the smart sensor CPU 135 is coupled to a communication interface 130, wherein
the communication interface 130 couples the controller to an external device. The smart
sensor system 102 additionally includes a sensor 140. As indicated, the sensor can
include one or more of a light sensor 141, a motion sensor 142, and temperature sensor
143, and camera 144 and/or an air quality sensor 145. It is to be understood that this is
not an exhaustive list of sensors. That is additional or alternate sensors can be utilized for
lighting and/or environmental control of a structure that utilizes the lighting control sub
system 100. The sensor 140 is coupled to the smart sensor CPU 135, and the sensor 140
generates a sensed input.
         According to at least some embodiments, the controllers (manager CPU 120 and
the smart sensor CPU) are operative to control a light output of the luminaire 110 based
at least in part on the sensed input, and communicate at least one of state or sensed
information to the external device.
         For at least some embodiments, the high-voltage manager 104 receives the high
power voltage and generates power control for the luminaire 110, and generates a low
voltage supply for the smart sensor system 102. As suggested, the high-voltage manager
104 and the smart sensor system 102 interact to control a light output of the luminaire
110 based at least in part on the sensed input, and communicate at least one of state or
sensed information to the external device. The high-voltage manager 104 and the smart
sensor system 102 can also receive state or control information from the external device,
which can influence the control of the light output of the luminaire 110. While the
manager CPU 120 of the high-voltage manager 104 and the smart sensor CPU 135 of the
smart sensor system 102 are shown as separate controllers, it is to be understood that for
at least some embodiments the two separate controllers (CPUs) 120, 135 can be
implemented as single controller or CPU.
                                              5

        For at least some embodiments, the communication interface 130 provides a
wireless link to external devices (for example, a central controller and/or other lighting
sub-systems).
        An embodiment of the high-voltage manager 104 of the lighting control sub
system 100 further includes an energy meter 122 (also referred to as a power monitoring
unit), which receives the electrical power of the lighting control sub-system 100. The
energy meter 122 measures and monitors the power being dissipated by the lighting
control sub-system 100. For at least some embodiments, the monitoring of the dissipated
power provides for precise monitoring of the dissipated power. Therefore, if the manager
CPU 120 receives a demand response (typically, a request from a power company that is
received during periods of high power demands) from, for example, a power company,
the manager CPU 120 can determine how well the lighting control sub-system 100 is
responding to the received demand response. Additionally, or alternatively, the manager
CPU 120 can provide indications of how much energy (power) is being used, or saved.
        For the embodiments described, the lighting control system includes a plurality of
the lighting control sub-system, such as the lighting control sub-system 100 of Figure 1.
Generally, the purpose of the lighting control system is to control illumination so that the
appropriate illumination is provided only when and where it is needed within a building
or structure in which the lighting system is located. Ideally, the lighting control system
operates at the lowest cost over the lifetime of the lighting control system. The costs
include both the installation (generally referred to as the CAPEX (capital expenditure))
and the ongoing operational cost (generally referred to as the OPEX (operational
expenditure)), which includes the energy costs and the maintenance costs (such as bulb
replacement, inspection), and operation of a central controller. The actual illumination
needs generally changes over the lifetime of the lighting control system due to changing
building occupancy levels and usage, and by changes in occupant needs. A building that
is expected to see changes in illumination needs, requires a lighting control system that
provides low cost changes to reduce the total cost and to extend its lifetime.
Additionally, as the technology of luminaires changes over time, the ideal lighting control
system supports replacement of the luminaires without the need to replace components of
                                               6

the lighting control system. While lowering the costs, the ideal lighting control system
should enhance occupant productivity, well-being, and security. Also, the ideal system
should gather operational status and statistics so that the actual operation can be
compared with the desired operation, and the design assumptions (such as occupancy
patterns) can be validated, and the configuration changed, if needed, when the design is
changed to match the actual use.
         At least some embodiments of the lighting control system include a plurality of
the lighting control sub-system. Each of the lighting control sub-systems can operate
independently, in coordination with other lighting control sub-systems (for example,
existing hard-wired systems), and/or in coordination with a central controller. As such,
each of the lighting control sub-systems can be independently installed, and adapt their
operation accordingly.
         As previously stated, an embodiment of the lighting control sub-system includes a
communication interface, a controller (listed in discussion as a single controller, but as
previously described, at least some embodiment include multiple controllers, such as, the
high-voltage manager 104 and the smart sensor CPU 135), a luminaire, a light sensor,
and a motion sensor. For an embodiment, the luminaire is a lighting unit consisting of
one or more lamps, socket(s) and parts that hold the lamp(s) in place and protect them,
wiring that connects the lamp(s) to a power source, and reflector(s) to help direct and
distribute the light. Various embodiments of luminaires include bulb technologies, such
as incandescent, florescent, and LED (light emitting diode). Further, various
embodiments of the luminaires are controllably turned on and off, and further, are
controllably dimmable.
     For at least some embodiments, the controller makes decisions as to turning on,
turning off, and dimming the luminaires. The controller does this, for example, either due
to command from an external device (such as, the central controller), or by processing
decision rules using inputs from the sensors, a saved configuration, time of day, passage
of time from past sensor inputs, and/or from state or sensor values from other sub
systems. Additionally or alternatively, learned behavior can influence the decisions.
                                              7

        In its most basic configuration, the controller only controls turning at least one
luminaire on or off (no dimming) using simple rules and only inputs from a motion and
light sensor and passage of time. For an embodiment, the controller is split into two
physical modules as shown in Figure 1. The first module is called the powerpack
(referred to as the high-voltage manager 104), and contains the following sub-modules:
power transformer (AC to DC voltage), relay to disrupt power to the luminaire, power
meter, one model sends dimming control signal (and other model passes a dimming
control signal) to the luminaire, and "watch dog" support to restart the other module of
the controller if it becomes unresponsive. The second module (referred to as the smart
sensor system 102) houses the motion, and temperature sensors, a processor, persistent
storage for configuration, and the wireless interface. The processor in this module
executes the rules for controlling the light level of the luminaire.
        For an embodiment, the controller is co-located with the luminaire. Also, at least
some embodiments of the luminaire have chambers wherein the controller can be housed,
or are designed for an external chamber to be attached that can house the controller.
        For at least some embodiments, the controller intercepts power sources going to
the luminaire and provides on/off controlled power. An embodiment of the controller
also provides a 0 to l0v control signal to the luminaire, and if supported by the luminaire,
for dimming.
        For at least some embodiments, the sensors sense (or measures) some physical
quantity and converts it into a digital value. For an embodiment, the sensors are
packaged together with the controller. More specifically, for various embodiments of the
lighting control sub-system, multiple sensors of the lighting control sub-system include a
motion sensor, a light sensor, and temperature sensors located in the same physical
module, which is connected to the other physical modules with a cable. For an
embodiment, the sensor(s) are physically located beside the luminaire, and the motion
and light sensors are directed towards the floor of a structure in which the lighting control
                                               8

sub-system is located. For an embodiment, the sensor(s) are directly connected to the
controller.
         For an embodiment, the controller is further operative to receive information from
an external device, wherein the received information influences a current state of the
lighting control sub-system, or the received information includes parameters that
influence a future state of the lighting control sub-system. For an embodiment, the
received information influences a lighting control sub-system profile. For an
embodiment, the lighting sub-system profile includes a set of values (parameters) that
affect the operation of the controller in determining how it controls the light output of the
luminaire based on current and past sensor inputs, time of day or passage of time. For at
least some embodiments, the parameters are adaptively updated.
         For at least some embodiments, the controller is operative to receive a plurality of
lighting control sub-system profiles. That is, there can be more than one lighting control
sub-system profile, and the lighting control sub-system profiles can be adaptively
updated. More specifically, an active profile or present profile of the plurality of lighting
control sub-system profiles can be adaptively updated. Further, for at least some
embodiments, the external device can add, replace or delete one or more profiles of the
plurality of lighting control sub-system profiles.
         As previously stated, the external device can be a central controller or another
lighting control sub-system. Further, the external device can include a logical group
controller, or a terminal. For at least some embodiments, a terminal is a device that
allows interaction with the lighting control sub-system in a form that can be done by
humans in a language that is human readable.
         An embodiment of a logical group controller provides control over a plurality of
lighting control sub-systems, wherein the plurality of lighting control sub-systems are all
a member of the logical group. The size of a logical group is dynamic. Further, any one
of the lighting control sub-systems can be member of any number of logical groups,
                                               9

wherein each logical group can include a different set of members. For an embodiment,
the external device looks like a traditional light wall switch but with several buttons or
controls. The external device is used to affect all lighting control sub-systems in the
logical group to turn them on or off, and/or to set them to configured light levels that are
appropriate for the use of the space in which the logical group of lighting control sub
systems is located. For example, such as viewing output from a projector on a screen, or
listening to a formal presentation.
         At least some embodiments include a plurality of sensors, wherein the controller
is operative to control the light output based on a combination of sensed inputs of the
plurality of sensors. The sensors can include, for example, ambient light sensors and
occupancy sensors. Additionally, timing and scheduling controls can be provided by
clocks and/or timers. At least some embodiments further include the controller operative
to control the light output based on the combination of one or more of the sensed inputs
and a lighting schedule. For example, during a work time (known occupancy of, for
example, an office building) a light in a work area may be restricted from turning off.
However, during non-work times, the light can be turned off if no one is present. If
utilizing a lighting schedule, clearly the lighting control sub-system includes and/or has
access to a clock and/or a timer.
         For at least some embodiments, the controller is operative to receive a lighting
control configuration. For an embodiment, the lighting control configuration includes the
above-described lighting sub-system profile. For an embodiment, the controller receives
the lighting control configuration from a system operator. This includes (but is not
limited to), for example, a situation where an operator sets the configuration using dip
switches that are physically located on the sub-system. For an embodiment, the
controller receives the lighting control configuration from a central controller, thereby
allowing a system user to manage the lighting control configuration.
         For an embodiment, the controller is operative to collect sensor values over time
based on at least the sensed input. Again, the controller has access to a clock and/or a
                                               10

timer. For an embodiment, the controller is operative to communicate the collected
sensor values to the external device. For example, a value of occupancy can be
determined every X seconds, saved for the last Y minutes, and then reported to the
external device or central controller. For an embodiment, the controller is operative to
identify problems of operation of the lighting control sub-system based on the collected
sensor values, and to report the identified problems of operation to the external device.
For example, the controller can report that the temperature is too high or too low. The
controller can report that a light has burned out, or report a loss of coupling with the
luminaire. For at least some embodiments, the controller is operative to report past
operating characteristics of the sub-system. For example, the controller can report light
level changes.
         For at least some embodiments, the sensor includes a power monitoring unit (such
as, the energy meter 122) operative to measure power usage of the lighting control sub
system. Further, for at least some embodiments, the controller is operative to
communicate the measured power usage of the sub-system to the external device.
         As will be described in detail, for at least some embodiments, the controller is
operative to communicate with other sub-systems, and identify logical groups of two or
more sub-systems. For at least some embodiments, identifying logical groups comprises
at least the controller and at least one of the other sub-systems auto-determining the
logical group. For an embodiment, at least one of the logical groups includes a motion
sensing group. For an embodiment, at least one of the logical groups includes an ambient
light group. For an embodiment, at least one of the logical groups includes a logical
switch group. For an embodiment, at least one of the logical groups includes a logical
temperature group.
         For an embodiment, the controller is operative to control the light output based on
a sensor signal of a sensor of another sub-system of a common logical group. For an
embodiment, sub-systems of a common logical group communicate to each other when a
sensor of one of the sub-systems of the logical group has failed.
                                                11

         For an embodiment, the controller is operative to identify an emergency
condition, and initiate an emergency mode. For a specific embodiment, the controller is
operative to confirm the identification of the emergency mode, including the controller
initiating communication with a non-emergency device, and confirming the identified
emergency condition if the initiated communication is not successful.
         Figure 2 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes a plurality of
sub-systems 100, 101, 102, according to an embodiment. As shown, each (or at least
some) of the sub-systems 100, 101, 102 include the previously described luminaire 110,
controller 120, communication interface 130, and sensor 140.
         Figure 3 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes plurality of sub
systems 100, 101, 102 and a central controller 310, according to an embodiment. For at
least some embodiments, each sub-system is capable of independent action. Each sub
system 100, 101, 102 is further capable of acting responsive to the central controller 310.
Further each, sub-system 100, 101, 102 includes a luminaire 110, a controller 120
coupled to the luminaire, at least one sensor 140 coupled to the controller, and a
communication interface 130. The at least one sensor 140 generates a sensed input, and
the communication interface 130 couples the controller 120 to at least one of the central
controller 310 or another sub-system. For at least some embodiments, the controller is
operative to control a light output of the luminaire 110, and communicate at least one of
state or sensed information to at least one of the central controller 310 or another sub
system.
         For an embodiment, central controller 310 configures all sub-systems 100, 101,
102 (so that they can operate autonomously), gathers and stores periodic reports of status
and statistics from all sub-systems 100, 101, 102, gathers asynchronous event reports
from sub-systemsl00, 101, 102, replaces the software running in any sub-system 100,
101, 102, and on operator command, can control the light level on any sub-system 100,
101, 102. Further, for an embodiment, on operator command, the central controller 310
can return a sub-system to run in autonomous mode on operator command. An
embodiment of the central controller 310 also provides a management user interface to
                                              12

the lighting control system 100, 101, 102 so that operators of the system 100, 101, 102
can perform management operations including viewing the status, upgrading the software
running on the sub-systems 100, 101, 102, changing the configuration of the sub-systems,
upgrade software on selected sub-systems, upgrading software on the central controller
310, backing up configurations and saving status and statistics, etc. An embodiment of
the central controller 310 sets configurations and gathers periodic reports of status from
all the sub-systems 100, 101, 102.
         For an embodiment, the central controller 310 includes an Ethernet interface that
it uses to connect to one or more gateways via an IP network. For an embodiment, the
gateways use a wireless communication interface to connect to one or more sub-systems
100, 101, 102. At least some embodiments of the lighting control system are designed so
that the lighting control system is agnostic to the networking type or topology that is used
to provide communications between the central controller and sub-systems. For an
embodiment, the central controller 310 uses the HTTPS protocol, which is used to
support secure connection with a Web browser that runs on a computer and provides a
graphical user interface. For an embodiment, the central controller is powered by a 100
to 240V power supply. Embodiments of the central controller can be located anywhere
there is power, an Ethernet connection, and an environment that doesn't exceed the
environmental constraints of the hardware.
         At least some embodiments include an apparatus and/or method for retrofitting a
lighting control sub-system. The retrofit kit allows for upgrading of presently existing
minimal intelligent lighting control sub-systems without having to modify existing power
line and power control wiring. The retrofitted lighting control sub-system allows for
intelligent control of the light of the lighting control sub-system. The retrofitted lighting
control sub-system can be networked with other retrofitted lighting control sub-systems
allowing for distributed control of multiple lighting control sub-systems. Additionally,
embodiments of the retrofitted light include network interfaces for additional or
alternative light control.
                                                13

         For an embodiment, a retrofit controller is interfaced with a dimming ballast of an
existing light, which includes breaking an existing power supply and dimming control
connections of the dimming ballast, inserting the retrofit controller, and connecting the
power supply and dimming connections of the dimming ballast to the retrofit controller.
Additionally, the retrofit controller is connected to at least one sensor by attaching an
external electrically conductive line between at least one external sensor and the retrofit
controller. Existing external electrical wiring and switches can be left alone and not
modified.
         For an embodiment, the at least one external sensor is affixed proximate to the
light fixture. For example, if the light fixture is attached to the ceiling of a room, the at
least external sensor is affixed to the ceiling proximate to the light fixture.
         An external electrically conductive line is connected between the retrofit
controller and the at least one external sensor. For an embodiment, the external
electrically conductive line provides power to the at least one external sensor from the
retrofit controller. For an embodiment, the external electrically conductive line provides
control information from the at least one external sensor to the retrofit controller.
         The at least one external sensor can merely provide sensed signals, or the at least
one external sensor can include a controller, and the at least one external sensor is
wirelessly connected to a network. Additionally, embodiments include the at least one
external sensor providing dimming control information to the retrofit controller based on
at least one of sensed information and control information received from the network.
         For another embodiment, the retrofit controller receives sensed information from
the at least one sensor, and adaptively controls the dimming ballast based on the sensed
information. The sensed information can include, for example, sensed light, sensed
motion, or sensed temperature, in which intelligent lighting control decisions can be
made.
         If many of retrofitted intelligent light controllers are operating in conjunction, the
light controllers can all be interfaced with a central controller. For this embodiment, the
                                                 14

retrofit controller can receive control information through the network to manage, reduce
or control power consumption of the light controller. Alternatively, the light controllers
can include decentralized control, and each retrofit controller can receive control
information from other retrofit controllers over the network.
         For an embodiment, the central controller is operative to provide a system
management of the lighting control system. For at least some embodiments, the system
management provides a user interface, allowing a user to configure operation of one or
more of the plurality of sub-systems.
         For at least some embodiments, the central controller is further operative to
receive sensed values and sub-system state information for one or more of the plurality of
sub-systems. For at least some embodiments, the central controller is further operative to
aggregate and display the received sensed values of the one or more of the plurality of
sub-systems. For at least some embodiments, the central controller is further operative
display summary statistics of the received sensed values over variable periods of time.
The display summary statistics can include roll-ups that includes display statistics
(averages) over periods of time, such as, minutes, hours, days, week, months and/or
years.
         For at least some embodiments, the central controller is operative to identify a
failure of emergency sub-systems, and to identify and communicate to other sub-systems
operation to operate in an emergency mode. For at least some embodiments, the central
controller operative to receive a demand response from an external power company, and
adaptively communicate to the plurality of sub-systems to operate in a reduced power
mode.
         Figure 4 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes a logical group
410 of sub-systems, according to an embodiment. That is, for example, the logical group
410 includes lighting control sub-systems 100, 101. Once a logical group has been
defined, state and sense information of lighting control sub-systems of the logical groups
can be share among the member lighting control sub-systems of the group, thereby
                                              15

providing each member with additional intelligence. Additionally, member lighting
control sub-systems of the logical group can be commonly controlled.
        Based on the ability of the lighting control sub-systems to communicate with each
other, an embodiment includes the sub-systems of a logical group providing each other
with their sensor readings and providing each other with their decisions for setting light
levels. Therefore, the lighting control sub-systems can coordinate their control of lights.
For example, a group of the lighting control sub-systems can be set up that consists of all
fixtures (sub-systems) in a conference room. Therefore, when any of the sub-systems
senses motion (due to an occupant entering through any of the doors to the conference
room) and the lights are off, the sub-system communicates the turning on the lights due to
motion with the other members in the group so that all of them turn on their light. Also,
while motion is detected by any sub-subsystem, this can be communicated with the
members of the group so that the lights are kept on, even by the sub-systems that have not
recently detected motion. Another example is lights in a corridor being in a group. When
they are, they can communicate their detection of motion and physical location to the
other lights in the group, so they can react in such a way that only the nearby lights "in
front of' a moving person in a deserted corridor turn on (or brighten up if they are on at a
low level). Yet another example is an external device that acts like a sophisticated light
switch. When a user selects a lighting scene on it, it sends the scene to all sub-systems
that are members of a "switch group".
        For an embodiment, the controller of each lighting sub-system is operative to
communicate with other sub-systems, and identify logical groups of two or more sub
systems. For an embodiment, the controller is operative to control the light output based
on a sensor signal of a sensor of another sub-system. For an embodiment, identifying
logical groups includes at least the controller and at least one of the other sub-systems
auto-determining the logical group.
                                               16

        Embodiments include various types of logical groups. Exemplary logic groups
include a motion sensing group, an ambient light group, a logical switch group, and/or a
logical temperature group. It is to be understood that this is not an exhaustive list.
        For at least some embodiments of a building control system that include the
distributed lighting control system includes a logical group 410 of sub-systems , the sub
systems are independently operable. That is, each of the sub-systems can operate
completely independently, and the controller within each sub-system is operable without
receiving any commands from a central controller. For other embodiments, the sub
systems operate in conjunction with other sub-systems, such as, other sub-systems within
a common logical group. For this embodiment, decisions regarding building control can
involve a collaborative interaction between multiple sub-systems. For other
embodiments, one or more sub-systems are interfaced with a system controller.
        For an embodiment, each controller 120, of each lighting control sub-system 100,
101, 102 independently control an environmental load or a security device. More
specifically, the controller controls at least one of a lighting intensity, an environmental
control, or a building security control. As will be described, the building control sub
systems can include lighting (that is, a light in included with the sub-system), and the
controller of the sub-system controls the intensity of light emitted from the light.
Alternatively or additionally, the sub-system can include environment control, such as,
temperature or humidity. For this embodiment, the sub-system can be interface or be a
part of an HVAC system. Alternatively or additionally, the sub-system can interface with
or be a part of a building security system.
        For at least some embodiments, the controller of each sub-system is operative to
independently control the environmental load and/or the security device based on at least
one of shared sensor or shared state information received from at least one other of the
plurality of sub-systems within the logical group. For embodiments, the environmental
control includes light, temperature and/or humidity. For embodiments, the shared sensor
information includes sense light, motion, temperature, humidity, and other possible
                                                17

sensors. For embodiments, the state information includes, for example, occupancy
information, clear state timer, light sub-system emitted light intensity.
        A sub-system may control, for example, an intensity of light emitted from the
sub-system based at least in part on a sensed parameter from another sub-system of the
logical group. A sub-system may control heat or humidity based on temperature or
humidity sensing of other sub-systems within the logical group. A sub-system may make
security decisions based on parameters sensed by other sub-systems of the logical group.
        A factor that greatly adds to the intelligence of the distributed building control
sub-systems is the designations of logical groups, wherein sub-systems of a logical group
control building parameters based on sensed input from other building control sub
systems of the logical group.
        For an embodiment, the controller within a building control sub-system is
operative to help designate one or more of the plurality of sub-systems as belonging to
the logical group. That is, the sub-systems operate in conjunction with other sub
systems, such as, other sub-systems within a common logical group. For this
embodiment, decisions regarding building control can involve a collaborative interaction
between multiple sub-systems. For another embodiment, at least a sub-plurality of the
plurality of sub-systems auto-determine which sub-systems are included within the
logical group.
        For an embodiment, sub-systems auto-designate logical groups based on location
and/or proximity. That is, for one example, each sub-system knows their location (for
example, x, y and z coordinates) and auto-designates based on a sensed input, and
proximity, or a location (for example, x, y and z coordinates) of the sensor that generated
the sensed input. Sub-systems which are classified into certain categories (e.g. corridor,
emergency) affiliate themselves with other sub-systems based on commonality of
category and proximity. For example, a sub-system in a corridor or emergency path will
receive motion sensing input from another sub-system in the corridor or emergency path
                                               18

and, based on the fact that they are both in the same category and that they are within a
distance threshold (proximity) determines that it is in the same motion group as the sub
system from which input (sensed) was received.
         Stated another way, for an embodiment, auto-determining includes at least one of
the sub-systems receiving a sensed input of a different sub-system, and the at least one
sub-system auto-designating itself into a logical group that includes the different sub
system based on a proximity of the at least one sub-system to the different sub-system.
For a specific embodiment, the at least one sub-system determines its proximity to the
different sub-system based on a three-dimensional x, y, z location of the at least one sub
system relative to a three-dimensional x, y, z location of the different sub-system.
         While described in the context of auto-designating groups, it is to be understood
that location or proximity information can be used by sub-systems to influence operation.
That is, for example, a sub-system may base its operation based on logical groupings, and
additionally, based on the proximity of a sensed input.
         For an embodiment, an administrator specifies which of the plurality of sub
systems belong to the logical group. Generally, the administrator specification occurs at
installation, and may remain static. For another embodiment, a manual operator specifies
which of the plurality of sub-systems belong to the logical group. This can include the
operator having a manual control (such as a switch or a set of switches) that allows the
manual operator to set and control logical groupings.
         An embodiment includes each of the sub-systems of the logical group additionally
being operative to receive an input from a device, wherein the sub-system responds to the
input if the input includes an identifier associating the input with the logical group. For
this embodiment an external controller can interface with particular logical groups based
on the unique identifier associated with the logical group. Associating the unique
identifiers with logical groups provides for ease of scaling of the number of sub-systems.
That is, for example, conventional centrally-controlled systems require either more
                                               19

messages or larger messages to control sub-systems, whereas including unique identifiers
with logical groups provides for an efficient system in which the transmitted data doesn't
grow or increase as the group grows. Additionally, the system is less reliant on and
requires less use of any one communication channel, and therefore, the likelihood of
failure due to communication channel use is less.
         An embodiment includes sub-systems within the logical group restarting a clear
state-timer upon sensing of motion and/or light by a sub-system within the logical group.
The clear-state time can be defined by an occupancy window that estimates, for example,
how long a space will be occupied after sensing an occupant. That is, for example, lights
can be turned on within a building or structure for a period of the clear-state-timer, which
can be estimated by an occupancy window. This embodiment allows members (sub
systems) of a logical group to transition states while maintaining synchronization with
each other.
         An exemplary method or sequence of events of a clear-state-timer operation
includes sub-system in motion group detecting motion. For operation of an exemplary
set of lighting sub-systems, all sub-systems in motion group brighten and set an
occupancy window of some configured time. At the expiration of the occupancy
window, the sub-systems should dim/turn off. However, if during the occupancy
window, some sub-systems in the motion group subsequently detects motion, all sub
systems in the motion group reset the occupancy window since the area covered by the
motion group is still occupied. After the occupancy window expires, all sub-systems dim
or turn off.
         For an embodiment, sensing of motion and/or light by sub-systems within the
logical group within a predetermined amount of time after restarting a lighting on-time is
ignored. That is, for example, sensing of light and/or motion is ignored just after lighting
of the lighting sub-systems. The period of time in which sensed inputs are ignored can be
defined a dead-time. The dead time can reduce "chatter" between lights of a logical
group. That is, multiple lights within a logical group can near-simultaneously sense a
                                              20

change in motion and/or light which can cause redundant or excess chatter among the
lighting sub-systems of the logical group.
         An embodiment includes a sub-system ignores its own sensing of light and/or
motion for a predetermined period of time if the sub-system receives an indication of
sensing of light and/or motion from another sub-system of the logical group. This
process can be defined as "anti-sensing". Anti-sensing can be useful, for example, for
preventing a light sub-system of an office or a conference room from turning on when
someone passes by outside the office or conference room.
         Various embodiments include different types of logical groups. Exemplary
logical group types include, for example, a motion sensing group (previously mentioned),
an ambient light group, a logical temperature group, and a logical switch group. Clearly,
additional types of logical groups can additionally or alternatively exist. Additionally, a
sub-system can belong to any number of different logical groups. Logically grouping of
sub-systems is useful for synchronizing members of logical groups, normalizing behavior
based on larger samples of data, and/or making better decision based on larger sample of
data. Additionally, a sub-system being able to belong to any number of different groups
is difficult and expensive in centrally controlled systems. As the membership list of sub
systems in a centrally controlled system grows, the data that the controller must manage
grows, which causes scaling problems.
         An exemplary motion sensing group can be utilized, for example, by lighting sub
systems located in a corridor. For an embodiment, sub-systems of a corridor determining
they are in a corridor, and auto-designate themselves to be included within a common
logical group (that is, the motion sensing group). Further, the motion sensing group
includes a corridor look-ahead behavior, wherein for the look-ahead behavior, a plurality
of overlapping logical groups of sub-systems provide propagation of light along a
corridor. It is to be understood that there are various embodiments for implementing this
motion group. The members of the group can be defined as desired to ensure user
friendly behavior of lighting produced by the member of the motion sensing group.
                                               21

        This propagation of light can be used in applications where objects are moving at
a high speed (that is, speed greater than a predetermined threshold) and the path of the
object's motion needs to be illuminated. Additionally, the corridor look-ahead behavior
provides for a safer environment in sparsely populated hallways during the night since
individuals moving through the corridor can see farther ahead. By using the corridor
look-ahead behavior, the motion sensing group can achieve an effective mix of safety and
energy efficiency because the appropriate level of light is provided without having to
illuminate the entire corridor (as is the case with many traditional lighting control
systems).
        For the ambient light group, an embodiment includes at least a subset of the
plurality sub-systems auto-designating themselves to be within the ambient light group.
The auto or self-designation of the light can be made, for example, by the at least a subset
of the plurality of light determining that they receive a change of light near
simultaneously (that is, for example, within a defined time slot).
        For an embodiment, if at least one of the sub-systems of the logical group sense a
motion and/or light sensing blindness condition, then the at least one sub-system
retrieving sensing information from other sub-systems within a common logical group to
determine motion and/or ambient light level, and the sub-system responds accordingly.
That is, a sub-system (such as a lighting sub-system) solicits information from others in
logical group if the lighting sub-system is blind. It is to be understood that the same
concept can be extended to other sensor as well, such as, motion sensors or temperature
sensors.
        For a logical switching group, an embodiment includes the logical group being
designated by a group id, and sub-systems that are members of the logical group having
the group id are controlled by a logical switch or a physical switch. For an embodiment,
the member sub-systems are controlled to provide predetermined scenes.
                                               22

         For example, a conference room might have predetermined scenes which dim the
sub-systems near a projector screen or group viewing monitor. Other scenes can include
optimizing light levels for specific tasks (for example, task tuning).
         An embodiment includes at least one sub-system of the logical group receiving a
reference or baseline value for at least one of motion and/or light sensor input from
another sub-system in the logical group. For example, a lighting sub-system solicits the
ambient light level from another lighting sub-system in the logical group to establish a
reference for the minimum light level in a particular building location. Further, the
lighting sub-system may receive the input from the other sub-system(s) in the group, and
then compare its own measured (sensed) values against the received values to make a
decision. For example, the received values could be a target (such as a heating or cooling
target, and further the sub-system adjusting its temperature until it reaches the target).
For another embodiment, the sub-system uses the received value to determine some
external factor. For example, the value received from a sub-system located outside can
be used to determine outside temperature which can be used to aid in adjustment of an
inside temperature. Clearly, these embodiments can be extended beyond just temperature
control.
         For the logical temperature group, an embodiment includes a sub-system
receiving at least one of an occupancy (motion) input and a temperature sensor input
from at least one of the other sub-systems in the logical group to control an
environmental load. For other embodiments, this can further include the sub-system
controlling the environmental load by averaging the temperatures of all the sub-systems
in the logical group. Additionally or alternatively, embodiments include the sub-system
controlling the environmental load, for example, using only the temperatures of sub
systems in the logical group which are reporting occupancy. For embodiments, the
environment is controlled only in places that matter, such as, occupied spaces. The
described embodiments allow from determination of whether a space is really occupied,
are whether one is merely passing through the spaces.
                                              23

         Figure 5 shows a distributed lighting control system that includes that includes a
logical group 510 of sub-systems and a central controller 310, according to an
embodiment. For an embodiment, the central controller 310 provides information to and
controls each of the sub-systems based at least in part on the logical group of the lighting
subsystem.
         For at least some embodiments, the central controller 310 is interfaced with a user
interface (UI) 520 that allows a user to control, or receive information from the central
controller.
         For at least some embodiments, the logical groups (such as logical group 510)
receive instructions, or provide information to an external device 530. As previously
described, the external device can be other lighting control system or the central
controller, but for at least some embodiments, the external controller 530 can be a switch
(that is, a lighting control device that looks like, for example, a lighting wall switch), an
array of sensor, or a user controlled handheld device (such as, a tablet computer or a
smart phone). Clearly, the external device 530 can be devices other than listed.
         For example, if the external device is a switch, the switch can provide operation
instructions to the logical group 510. The instructions can be provided using a unique
identifier, and the logical group that responds to the unique identifier can respond
accordingly.
         If the external device 530 includes an array of sensors, information obtained by
any one of the lighting control sub-systems, or logical groups of lighting control sub
systems can be used to learn more about the structure the lighting control sub-systems are
located in.
         If the external device 530 is a handheld device, the handheld device can be used
by a system operator to travel around a structure that includes one or more of the lighting
control sub-systems, and trouble shoot and/or learn about the operation of the lighting
                                                24

control sub-systems of the structure. For an embodiment, one or more of the lighting
control sub-systems include memory. Sensed and/or state information of one or more of
the lighting control sub-systems, or sensed and/or state information of one or more of the
logical groups is stored within the memory. A system operator can periodically stop by,
access the memory, and obtain the sensed and/or state information.
        Figure 6 is a flow chart that includes steps of a method of operating a lighting
control sub-system, according to an embodiment. A first step 610 includes a sensor of
the lighting control sub-system generating a sensed input. A second step 620 includes
controlling, by a controller of the lighting control sub-system, a light output of the
luminaire based at least in part on the sensed input. A third step 630 includes
communicating, by the controller of the lighting control sub-system, at least one of state
or sensed information to the external device.
        Figure 7 shows an example of a plurality of independently controlled lights
(embodiments of the previously described lighting control sub-systems) 721, 722, 723,
724, 725, 726 interfaced with a central controller 720 (for an embodiment, the central
controller includes a light and energy management system). As shown, data can be
exchanged between the central controller 720 and each of the independently controlled
lights 721, 722, 723, 724, 725, 726. The information from the central controller 720
typically includes a light profile. Additionally, information can be conveyed from the
central controller 720 to the independently controlled lights in, for example, an
emergency situation.
        As shown, the independently controlled lights can include any number of sensors.
The sensors can include, for example, a light sensor, a motion sensor, a temperature
sensor, a camera, and/or an air quality sensor. Information obtained from the sensors can
be used directly by the independently controlled light itself, or at least some of the
information can be fed back to the central controller 720. The central controller 720 can
interface with, for example, a utility server 710 which can provide utility information,
such as, real-time energy costs, and demand response. For an alternate embodiment, one
                                               25

or more of the independently controlled lights can communicate directly with the utility
server 710 through, for example, a Zigbee @ interface and a smart meter 740
          The central controller shown as Figure 7 is optional. That is, it is to be
understood that the independently controllable light are capable of operating without the
central controller
          Figure 8 shows an embodiment of an independently controllable light (unified
controller, actuator and sensors, which according to at least one embodiment includes the
previously described lighting control sub-system). The independently controllable light
includes a controller 820 that independently manages and controls the operation of a
lighting unit (luminaire) 840. As previously described, the independently controllable
light can include any combination of sensors, such as, a light sensor 831, a motion sensor
832, a temperature sensor 833, a camera 834, and/or an air quality sensor 834. Also, as
described, the independently controllable light can receive profiles from elsewhere over a
communications channel.
          In Figure 8 the independently controllable light includes the light unit (luminaire).
It is to be understood that the light unit could alternatively be external to the controller.
For this embodiment, the controller can include outputs to effect the light level changes.
For example, the outputs can control relays to turn lights on and off, and control 0-10 V
or PWM (pulse width modulation) outputs for dimming. The controller 820 can include
a standard chipset that integrates a microprocessor unit, and interface for communicating
different program instructions, and several ports for communicating with electronic
devices.
          Upon being powered up, a power on mode can be initiated in which a default
profile is used. Next, a discovery mode can be initiated in which the independently
controllable light associates with the central controller, or other neighboring lights. It
should be noted, that due to independent control, installation of the lights can be done one
light at a time without interfacing with a central controller. However, if association with
a central controller is established, the independently controllable light can start
                                               26

periodically communicating data with the central controller. The central controller can
then upload a different profile than the default profile.
         In one example, when motion has not been detected for a specific interval of time,
light produced by the light unit 840 is dimmed gradually or allowed to remain off. When
motion is detected, software executed on the microcontroller 820 compares a sensed level
of light with a target level of light. When the difference between the sensed level and the
target level is substantial, the intensity of produced light can be adaptively changed
depending upon a variety of factors including whether the measured light is higher or
lower than the target level and the extent of the discrepancy between these levels.
Additionally, other factors can be considered such as, sensor measurements of the recent
past, the time of day, and/or other observed patterns. Additionally, the previously
described light profile can influence the emitted light adjustments.
         An embodiment includes adjusting the light by adjusting a wavelength of light
emitted from the light. Embodiments include sensing the color temperature of the
ambient light with a light sensor and simulating natural day light cycle.
         Predetermined actions can be taken upon detected failure of sensors of the light.
For example, the light level of the light can increase if a failure of the light sensor is
detected. Occupancy can be assumed upon detection of a failure of the occupancy
sensor.
         Various methods can be used to adjust the light level of the light. For example, if
the light is within a sub-system, the light can be adjusted by powering off or powering on
one or more lights in the sub-system (such as a fluorescent light sub-system with several
bulbs). An alternate embodiment includes the target light intensity being established by a
coordinated configuration sequence across many lights in an area. For an embodiment,
according to the light profile the target light intensity is established at least in part by a
coordinated configuration sequence across many lights in an area. A specific
embodiment includes a pair of fluorescent light sub-systems with three bulbs each, in
which two of the six bulbs are controlled by one dimmable ballast, and four of the six
                                                27

bulbs are controlled by a separate dimmable ballast. The two-bulb ballast controls one
bulb in each sub-system, and the four-bulb ballast controls two bulbs in each sub-system.
Dimming is achieved by the dimmable ballasts by turning off two or four of the light
bulbs while the rest remain on.
         Particular configurations of lights include light ballasts that are inefficient below a
certain percentage of brightness. To accommodate these light ballasts adjusting the light
intensity below this percentage brightness includes dimming until off one or more lights
gradually simultaneously with brightening the remaining lights to achieve the desired
light level adjustment.
         Figure 9 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of timing events as an
independently controllable light is powered on. As shown, at tO, the independently
controllable light is powered on. At a later time tl, the independently controllable light
uses a default profile (as mentioned, the central controller can later upload a different
profile). At a time t2, the independently controllable light can perform sensor
calibrations. Thereafter, the independently controllable light can enter a steady state
mode in which particular sensed events can trigger adjustment of the independently
controllable light.
         Figure 10 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of timing events
during operation of an independently controllable light. As shown, a sensed event
triggers the light adjustment which initiates a fixed adjustment interval after an initial
stabilization time. Embodiments include the initial stabilization time when dimming the
level of the light, and is potentially set to zero (not included) when increasing the level of
the light. For this embodiment, a random time delay is initiated at the same time as the
fixed adjustment interval. The random time delay is very useful when more than one of
the independently controllable lights is located proximate to each other. The random
time delay ensures that the proximate lights adjust their light levels at different times,
preventing oscillations in which each light is adjusting for the other and also ensures
uniform distribution of lighting.
                                                 28

         After the random delay time, the light level is controllably adjusted. The
adjustments continue until the target level of light has been reached. This can include
any number of fixed adjustment cycles. Thereafter, the changed damping interval is
included to damp or filter the changes in the light level. The damping interval can be
skipped if the lights are not at an acceptable level and need to be increased. Light levels
below a level can create safety issues. Therefore, the logic errs on the side of safety.
After the duration of the change damping interval, a next sensed triggering causes the
entire cycle to repeat.
         The fixed adjustment interval introduces gradual changes in light levels and also
allows proximate lights to effect gradual changes in a fair fashion. Multiple lights
reacting to the same condition (for example, opening a blind and allowing sunlight to
reach multiple lights) react at different times (due to the random delay) and have similar
chances (Steps) to affect the desired target light change. The gradual changes in light
levels do not distract occupants in neighboring areas.
         The fixed change damping interval is introduced to prevent occupants within, for
example, a room being lighted by the lights, from being irritated by continuous changes
in condition that affect the lights. For example, on a partially cloudy day as the sun goes
behind clouds and the light intensity sensed by the lights changes frequently, the
occupant may be irritated with continuous brightening and dimming of lights. In this
example, the logic would keep the lights at the brighter level to keep productivity high
(that is, less irritating).
         The initial stabilization time is used to filter transient increases in perceived light
levels. This might happen, for example, if a person with white clothing is close to the
light sensor, or for example, if external car headlights are received by the sensor causing
an increase in its perceived light level.
         Figure 11 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of events while an
independently controllable light is increasing its light level. As shown, the light level of
the light is at an initial level at the point a triggering event is sensed or detected. The
light level is then adjusted to a target level. The adjustment initially can include a level
                                                   29

adjustment step size (delta 1) that is larger if the actual lighting level is below an
acceptable level. Once the actual lighting level exceeds the acceptable level, the level
adjustment step size (delta 2) can be deceased. The effect being that the light level
changes more rapidly when increasing and the difference between the target and the
present light level is still large. That is delta 1 is greater than delta 2. Note that as
previously mentioned, the time between level changes is the fixed adjustment interval
plus the random time delay.
         Figure 12 is a flow chart that includes steps of an example of a method of
adjustably increasing a light level of a light sub-system. A step 1201 includes powering
on the light. A step 1202 includes detecting occupancy in the vicinity of the light. A step
1205 includes detecting occupancy by polling the motion sensor of the light at a regular
interval. A step 1203 includes detecting occupancy through an interrupt from a motion
sensor of the light. If occupancy is detected then a step 1206 includes checking if the
light level needs to be adjusted. If light level needs adjustment, then a step 1207 includes
determining if the light level is at least at an acceptable level. If acceptable, then a step
1209 includes selecting a small delta for adjustment to provide a gradual change. If not
at an acceptable level, then a step 1208 includes selecting a larger delta change for
adjustment to provide a more rapid change. A step 1210 includes introducing a random
delay time. A step 1211 increases the light level by selected delta. A step 1212 includes
checking if the light level change effected is realized. If effective, then a step 1213
includes initiating a sleep period until the next fixed adjustment interval. If not effective,
then a step 1214 includes re-evaluating the current light level and starting a new cycle.
         Figure 13 is a time-line that shows an example of a sequence of events while an
independently controllable light is decreasing its light level. As shown, the light level of
the light is at an initial level at the point a triggering event is sensed or detected. The
light level is then adjusted to a target level. The adjustment initially can include a level
adjustment step size (delta 3). Generally, delta 3 is less than delta 1, and therefore, the
lighting level increases at a greater rate than it increases.
                                                   30

         Figure 14 is a flow chart that includes steps of an example of a method of
adjustably decreasing a light level of a light sub-system. A step 1402 includes detecting
occupancy in the vicinity of the light. A step 1405 includes detecting occupancy by
polling the motion sensor at a regular interval. A step 1401 includes detecting occupancy
through an interrupt from a motion sensor. If occupancy is detected then a step 1403
includes checking if the light level needs to be adjusted. A step 1404 includes resetting
the change damping interval. A step 1406 includes checking if the light level adjustment
falls within the change damping interval. If so, then a step 1405 includes initiating a
sleep poll interval. If not, then a step 1407 includes selecting a small delta to ensure a
gradual change. A step 1408 includes decreasing the light level by the delta. A step
1409 includes checking if the light level change effected is realized. If effective, a step
1410 includes initiating a sleep cycle until the next fixed adjustment interval. If not
effective, then a step 1411 includes re-evaluating the current light level and starting a
new cycle.
         Figure 15 is a flow chart that includes an example of a method of controlling a
light. A first step 1510 includes detecting a light adjusting trigger event. A second step
1520 includes selecting a random delay time. A third step 1530 includes adjusting the
light, wherein the light adjustment occurs the random delay time after detecting the light
adjusting trigger event.
         For an embodiment, detecting a light adjusting trigger event includes sensing a
light level change greater than a change threshold. That is, for example, sensing a light
level different from a target light level by an amount that is greater than a difference
threshold. Additionally or alternatively, the light adjusting trigger event can include
sensing a change in room occupancy state, user input, or a state of emergency. For other
embodiments, detecting a light adjusting trigger event includes detecting at least one of a
change in time of day, a day of a week, a day of a year, a change in weather. For other
embodiments, detecting a light adjusting trigger event includes receiving a demand
response request or a real-time pricing request from, for example, the central controller.
                                               31

         An embodiment includes adjusting the light only once per a fixed adjustment
interval. Further, the light is adjusted the random delay time after the start of the fixed
adjustment interval. This can further include periodically polling throughout the fixed
adjustment interval to confirm that a state change that caused the light adjusting trigger
event persists. If the state change that caused the trigger no longer persists, then a new
light triggering event can be initiated.
         As previously described, a light profile can be received that includes at least one
light parameter. The at least one lighting parameter can influence the change threshold
(either a percentage or an absolute value), the target light level, and/or the difference
threshold (as either a percentage of an absolute value).Additionally, embodiments include
the at least one light parameter influencing the fixed adjustment interval and/or the
change damping interval.
         Embodiments include factors influencing the light profile. For example, the light
profile can be based at least in part on the type of room or area. The light profile can be
adaptively updated based at least in part on at least one of a productivity versus efficiency
(PVE) scale, a daylight likelihood assessment, time of day, day of week/holidays,
weather, emergency, demand response requests, real-time-pricing events.
         An embodiment includes the light parameters being configured such that a light
level higher than the target light level is handled differently than a light level that is lower
than the target light level. Adjusting the light includes adjusting a light intensity of the
light by an increment step, wherein the incremental step is a fraction of a difference
between a present light intensity and a target light intensity.
         For an embodiment, if the target is greater than the present light intensity, then the
light intensity is adjusted at a faster rate if the present light intensity is below an
acceptable level, and at a slower rate if the present light intensity is greater than the
acceptable level. If the target is less than the present light intensity, then the light
intensity is adjusted at a slower rate.
                                                  32

        More specific embodiment includes after one incremental adjustment, checking if
the measured light level remains such that further adjustment is necessary and, if so,
adjusting the light a new random delay time after the remainder of the fixed adjustment
interval and repeating this process until the measured light level is no longer such that
further adjustment is necessary.
        Although specific embodiments have been described and illustrated, the described
embodiments are not to be limited to the specific forms or arrangements of parts so
described and illustrated. The embodiments are limited only by the appended claims.
                                              33

                                                  34
CLAIMS
1.     A lighting control system, comprising:
       a plurality of lighting devices;
       a central server, wherein the central server communicates with each of the plurality of
lighting devices, and controls an operating configuration of each of the lighting devices; and
       a switch, wherein the switch communicates with at least some of the plurality of lighting
devices, wherein the communication includes information, and wherein the at least some of the
plurality of lighting devices respond to the information of the communication based on the
operating configuration of the at least some of the plurality of lighting devices, wherein the
switch includes a wireless switch; wherein
       the wireless switch toggles through N states as controlled by physical activation of the
wireless switch, and wherein each of the plurality of lighting devices includes M scenes, wherein
M is less than N, wherein M is greater than one, and wherein the plurality of lighting devices are
synchronized to each other by selecting a present state of each of the plurality of lighting devices
to be J mod M, wherein J is one of the N possible states of the wireless switch.
2.     The system of claim 1, wherein the communication includes a wireless broadcast, and the
information includes a switch identification, and button activate information.
3.     The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one of the plurality of lighting devices
receiving the information and re-broadcasting the information to the central server or another
lighting device.
4.     The system of claim 2, wherein the wireless switch further comprises a temperature sensor,
and wherein the wireless broadcast further includes temperature information at the wireless
switch.
5.     The system of claim 4, wherein the at least some of the plurality of lighting devices each
receive the temperature information, and calibrate themselves based on the received temperature
information of the wireless switch, and temperature information at the lighting device.
6.     The system of claim 1, wherein the wireless switch includes a scene unaware operation,
thereby allowing the wireless switch to deep-sleep and wakeup upon physical activation.

                                                  35
7.     The system of claim 1, wherein the central server receives an input control from a system
operator that provides adaptive control of the operating configuration of each of the lighting
devices.
8.     The system of claim 1, further comprising the central server monitoring or the central
server receiving monitoring information of occupancy behavior, wherein the operating
configuration of each of the lighting devices is adaptively controllable based on the occupancy
behavior.
9.     The system of claim 1, wherein the operating configurations determine which of the
lighting devices respond to the information and how each lighting device responds to the
information.
10.    A method of controlling lighting of a structure, comprising:
       communicating, by a central server, with each of a plurality of lighting devices, wherein
the communication provides control of an operating configuration of each of the lighting
devices; and
       communicating, by a switch, with at least some of the plurality of lighting devices, wherein
the communication includes information, and wherein the at least some of the plurality of
lighting devices respond to the information based on the operating configuration of the at least
some of the plurality of lighting devices, wherein the switch includes a wireless switch; wherein
       the wireless switch toggles through N states as controlled by physical activation of the
wireless switch, and wherein each of the plurality of lighting devices includes M scenes wherein
M is less than N wherein M is greater than one, and wherein the plurality of lighting devices are
synchronized to each other by selecting a present state of each of the plurality of lighting devices
to be J mod M, wherein J is a one of the N possible states of the wireless switch.
11.    The method of claim 10, wherein the communication includes a wireless broadcast, and the
information includes a switch identification, and button activate information.
12.    The method of claim 10, further comprising sensing a temperature at the wireless switch,
wherein the wireless broadcast further includes temperature information at the wireless switch,
the at least some of the plurality of lighting devices each receiving the temperature information,
and calibrating themselves based on the received temperature information of the wireless switch,
and temperature information at the lighting device.

                                                  36
13.    The method of claim 10, further comprising the central server receiving an input control
from a system operator that provides adaptive control of the operating configuration of each of
the lighting devices.
14.    The method of claim 10, further comprising the central server monitoring or receiving
monitoring information of occupancy behavior, wherein the operating configuration of each of
the lighting devices is adaptively controllable based on the occupancy behavior.
15.    The method of claim 10, wherein the operating configurations determine which of the
lighting devices respond to the information and how each lighting device responds to the
information.
16.    An environmental control system, comprising:
       a plurality of environmental control devices;
       a central server, wherein the central server communicates with each of the plurality of
environmental control devices, and controls an operating configuration of each of the
environmental control devices; and
       a wireless switch, wherein the wireless switch communicates with at least some of the
plurality of environmental control devices through a wireless broadcast, wherein the wireless
broadcast includes information, and wherein the at least some of the plurality of environmental
control devices respond to the information of the wireless broadcast based on the operating
configuration of the at least some of the plurality of environmental control devices; wherein
       the wireless switch toggles through N states as controlled by physical activation of the
wireless switch, and wherein each of the plurality of lighting devices includes M scenes, wherein
M is less than N, wherein M is greater than one, and wherein the plurality of lighting devices are
synchronized to each other by selecting a present state of each of the plurality of lighting devices
to be J mod M, wherein J is a one of the N possible states of the wireless switch.
17.    The system of claim 16, wherein the wireless switch further comprises a temperature
sensor, wherein the wireless broadcast further includes temperature information at the wireless
switch, and wherein the at least some of the plurality of lighting devices each receive the
temperature information, and calibrate themselves based on the received temperature information
of the wireless switch, and temperature information at the lighting device.

                                                 37
18.    The system of claim 16, wherein the environmental control devices comprise at least one
of a light fixture, ASC (air system control), HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning),
and a fan.
19.    The system of claim 16, wherein the central server receives an input control from a system
operator that provides adaptive control of the operating configuration of each of the
environmental control devices.
20.    The system of claim 16, further comprising the central server monitoring or the central
server receiving monitoring information of occupancy behavior, wherein the operating
configuration of each of the environmental control devices is adaptively controllable based on
the occupancy behavior.
21.    The system of claim 16, wherein the operating configurations determine which of the
environmental control devices respond to the information and how each environmental control
device responds to the information.
                                          Enlighted, Inc.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-date>
                                                <U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>       <U+260E>       <U+2706>       <U+271D>           <U+271E>       <U+2702>           <U+271F>       <U+2720>       <U+2706>       <U+2701>           <U+260E>       <U+2721>       <U+261B>       <U+261E>       <U+2706>           <U+2704>       <U+2706>       <U+260E>           <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>        <U+270F>   <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+2711>       <U+2712>       <U+2712>   <U+2712>       <U+2713>   <U+2714>   <U+271F>    <U+2701>
                                                            <U+2701>       <U+270D>       <U+2701>       <U+270C>       <U+2706>   <U+2715>       <U+271E>       <U+270D>   <U+2716>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+270D>       <U+261E>   <U+2721>       <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>       <U+2701>       <U+270D>   <U+260E>       <U+270E>            <U+271F>           <U+2702>       <U+260E>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+2702>           <U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2749> <U+2701><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704>
                               <U+274D><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764><U+2732><U+2771><U+2666><U+2767>t<U+275B><U+2763><U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+271E><U+2706><U+271F>
                                 <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2763><U+2761>r                                                                                <U+25BC><U+275B><U+2665><U+275B><U+2763><U+2761>r
                                                                                <U+2748>P<U+276F> <U+275B><U+2665><U+275E> <U+275B>ss<U+2666><U+275D><U+2710><U+275B>t<U+2761><U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>
                                                                                                                            <U+275D><U+2710>r<U+275D><U+2709><U+2710>tr<U+2461>
                                    <U+2736><U+2735><U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2722><U+2706><U+2707><U+2723><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>
                                                            <U+274A><U+2702><U+2723><U+271E><U+2704><U+2724>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>
                                                                    <U+2725><U+2723><U+271D><U+2723><U+271E>
                                                                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2727>
                              <U+274D><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764> P<U+2666><U+2605><U+2761>r
                           <U+272D><U+2729><U+2460>t<U+2761>r<U+2665><U+275B><U+2767><U+2734><U+2747><U+275B>tt<U+2761>r<U+2461><U+272E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+272C><U+272F><U+2756>                                             <U+2722><U+2706><U+2707><U+2723><U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718><U+270C><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271B><U+271C><U+271C>
              <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2713><U+271A><U+272A><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711>
                                          <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>                                                                                                                                                     <U+2759><U+2660><U+275B>rt <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                 <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2665><U+2761><U+2767>
                                             <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2748>P<U+276F>                                                                                          <U+2713><U+2717><U+2718><U+270C><U+2719><U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271B><U+271C><U+272B>
                                                    <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2736><U+2738><U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>
                                      <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t                                             <U+25BC><U+2666>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>                                                                          <U+275A><U+2761><U+2660><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+275B>t<U+2709>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                      <U+2748><U+275B><U+2660><U+2761>r<U+275B>                           <U+2746><U+2710>r <U+25D7><U+2709><U+275B><U+2767><U+2710>t<U+2461>
                                     <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                             <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                          <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                                             <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                                       <U+2736><U+2739><U+2736>                                                      <U+2736><U+2739><U+2737>                                                                                                     <U+2736><U+2739><U+2738>                                                                                                          <U+2736><U+2739><U+2739>                     <U+2736><U+2739><U+273A>

<removed-date>
                                         <U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>           <U+260E>       <U+2706>       <U+271D>           <U+271E>       <U+2702>           <U+271F>       <U+2720>       <U+2706>       <U+2701>           <U+260E>       <U+2721>       <U+261B>       <U+261E>       <U+2706>           <U+2704>       <U+2706>       <U+260E>           <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>   <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+2711>       <U+2712>       <U+2712>   <U+2712>       <U+2713>   <U+2714>   <U+271F>   <U+2701>
                                                     <U+2701>           <U+270D>       <U+2701>       <U+270C>       <U+2706>   <U+2715>       <U+271E>       <U+270D>   <U+2716>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+270D>       <U+261E>   <U+2721>       <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>       <U+2701>       <U+270D>   <U+260E>       <U+270E>           <U+271F>           <U+2702>       <U+260E>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+2702>           <U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                    <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                                 <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                        <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>
                                      <U+2759><U+2709> <U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                        <U+275C>                                                                                                              <U+2759><U+2709> <U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                <U+275C>                                                                                                                                             <U+2759><U+2709> <U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+275C>
                                           <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>                                                                                                              <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2736><U+2735><U+2737>
                                       <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                                    <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                                          <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                                        <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                             <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>
                <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                    <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2665><U+2761><U+2767>
              <U+272D><U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2605><U+2710>t<U+2764>      <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660>                  <U+2733>                                                                                                            <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660>                                       <U+2733>                                                                                                           <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660>  <U+2733>
                <U+2729><U+2460>t<U+2761>r<U+2665><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2761> <U+2710><U+275D><U+2761><U+272E>
                        <U+2749> <U+2708>           <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                          <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                                              <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>
                                         <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                    <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>
                                     <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                      <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                                                <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r
                                       <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                             <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>
                                     <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                       <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                                                 <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>
                                       <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                             <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>

<removed-date>
                            <U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>       <U+260E>       <U+2706>       <U+271D>           <U+271E>       <U+2702>           <U+271F>       <U+2720>       <U+2706>       <U+2701>           <U+260E>       <U+2721>       <U+261B>       <U+261E>       <U+2706>           <U+2704>       <U+2706>       <U+260E>           <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>   <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+2711>       <U+2712>       <U+2712>   <U+2712>       <U+2713>   <U+2714>   <U+271F>   <U+2701>
                                        <U+2701>       <U+270D>       <U+2701>       <U+270C>       <U+2706>   <U+2715>       <U+271E>       <U+270D>   <U+2716>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+270D>       <U+261E>   <U+2721>       <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>       <U+2701>       <U+270D>   <U+260E>       <U+270E>           <U+271F>           <U+2702>       <U+260E>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+2702>           <U+270C>
<removed-apn>                                                                                                                                  <U+270E><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+272A><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2719><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2738><U+271B><U+271C>
                                                                                                    <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                                                                                        <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2665><U+2761><U+2767>
              <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                      <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                        <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>
               <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                                                                                                           <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                    <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>                                                                                                                                     <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2735><U+2737>
                 <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                         <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                   <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                      <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>
                 <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>                                                                                                                          <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>
                <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                   <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>
                   <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                      <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>
               <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                               <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                                                            <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r
                   <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                                      <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>
               <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                                                             <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>
                   <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                                      <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>

<removed-date>
                                        <U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>       <U+260E>       <U+2706>       <U+271D>           <U+271E>       <U+2702>           <U+271F>       <U+2720>       <U+2706>       <U+2701>           <U+260E>       <U+2721>       <U+261B>       <U+261E>       <U+2706>           <U+2704>       <U+2706>       <U+260E>           <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>   <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+2711>       <U+2712>       <U+2712>   <U+2712>       <U+2713>   <U+2714>   <U+271F>   <U+2701>
                                                    <U+2701>       <U+270D>       <U+2701>       <U+270C>       <U+2706>   <U+2715>       <U+271E>       <U+270D>   <U+2716>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+270D>       <U+261E>   <U+2721>       <U+2701>       <U+2706>       <U+271E>       <U+270C>       <U+270D>   <U+270E>       <U+270F>       <U+2701>       <U+270D>   <U+260E>       <U+270E>           <U+271F>           <U+2702>       <U+260E>       <U+2701>       <U+2704>       <U+2702>           <U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>
                                                                                                    <U+25CF><U+271E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2663>
                                                                                                     <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                                    <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                                <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                    <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>
                                      <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                                                                                                      <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                                                                                                                                                          <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                                          <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>                                                                                                             <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2736><U+2735><U+2737>
                                       <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                               <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                                          <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                                        <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                  <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                             <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>
                <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                    <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2665><U+2761><U+2767>
              <U+272D><U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2707><U+2710>t<U+2764>      <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>                                                                                                                             <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>                                                                                                                                              <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>
                <U+274A><U+2460>t<U+2761>r<U+2665><U+275B><U+2767> <U+2749><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761><U+272E>      <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                         <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>
                                         <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                               <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>
                                     <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                     <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                                            <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r
                                       <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                            <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>
                                     <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                      <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                                             <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>
                                       <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                            <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>

<removed-date>
                                           <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>        <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                            <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+276F>s<U+2761>r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>
              <U+2746><U+2767>t<U+2761>r<U+2665><U+275B>t<U+2761> <U+2729><U+2460>t<U+2761>r<U+2665><U+275B><U+2767>                                                            <U+270E><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+272A><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2719><U+2711>
                    <U+2749><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+275D><U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+273A><U+2737><U+2735>
                     <U+273A><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                <U+2738><U+271B><U+271C>
                                                           <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                                                             <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2665><U+2761><U+2767>
                      <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                  <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t<U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>
                        <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                                        <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2759><U+2461>st<U+2761><U+2660>
                             <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>                                               <U+2736><U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2736><U+2735><U+2737>
                           <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                   <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                            <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                      <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>
                         <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>                                                               <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2733>
                        <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                           <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2762><U+275B><U+275D><U+2761>
                           <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                 <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2736><U+2738><U+2735>
                       <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                           <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r
                         <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                  <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>
                       <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                            <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25B2><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761>
                         <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                  <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2736><U+2736><U+2735>
                                         <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B><U+2721><U+275D><U+272A><U+2712>
                                         <U+25CF><U+2711><U+270F><U+2714><U+2663>
                                          <U+273A><U+271B><U+271C>

<removed-date>
                                <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>       <U+2722>       <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>           <U+2729>   <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>           <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+2746> <U+2725><U+2761><U+2665><U+2725><U+2666>r <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2701><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2702><U+2666><U+2665> r<U+2666><U+2701> <U+2725><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2725><U+2461><U+2725> <U+2761><U+2660> <U+2763><U+2761><U+2665><U+2761>r<U+275B> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+275B> <U+2725><U+2761><U+2665><U+2725><U+2761><U+275E> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2663><U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+273B>       <U+271B><U+271C>
              <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665> r<U+2666><U+2701><U+2701><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763><U+2704> <U+275C><U+2461> <U+275B> <U+2702><U+2666><U+2665> r<U+2666><U+2701><U+2701><U+2761>r <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2701><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2702><U+2666><U+2665> r<U+2666><U+2701> <U+2725><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2725><U+2461><U+2725> <U+2761><U+2660><U+2704> <U+275B> <U+2701><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764> <U+2666><U+2709> <U+2663><U+2709> <U+2666><U+2762>
                           <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2701><U+2709><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665><U+275B><U+2710>r<U+2761> <U+275C><U+275B><U+2725><U+2761><U+275E> <U+275B> <U+2701><U+2761><U+275B><U+2725> <U+2710><U+2665> <U+2663><U+275B>r <U+2666><U+2665> <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2725><U+2761><U+2665><U+2725><U+2761><U+275E> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2663><U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+273B>           <U+272B><U+271C>
              <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+2702><U+275B> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2763><U+2704> <U+275C><U+2461> <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2702><U+2666><U+2665> r<U+2666><U+2701><U+2701><U+2761>r <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2701><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2702><U+2666><U+2665> r<U+2666><U+2701> <U+2725><U+2709><U+275C><U+2732><U+2725><U+2461><U+2725> <U+2761><U+2660><U+2704> <U+275B> <U+2701><U+2761><U+275B><U+2725> <U+2666><U+2665><U+2761>
                           <U+2666><U+2762> <U+2725> <U+275B> <U+2761> <U+2666>r <U+2725><U+2761><U+2665><U+2725><U+2761><U+275E> <U+2710><U+2665><U+2762><U+2666>r<U+2660><U+275B> <U+2710><U+2666><U+2665> <U+2666> <U+2764><U+2761> <U+2761><U+2460> <U+2761>r<U+2665><U+275B><U+2701> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+2702><U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+273B>           <U+2738><U+271C>

<removed-date>
                           <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>    <U+2718>
                                           <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
                 <U+270C><U+2721><U+2712><U+2721><U+270C><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
                <U+276F>
                                                                   <U+2713><U+271A><U+272A><U+2711><U+270C>
                 <U+273C>   <U+271B><U+271C>                                            <U+25BC><U+2719><U+270C><U+2719><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2772>           <U+2721><U+2711><U+2719><U+2712><U+2719><U+2718><U+2718> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2711><U+2762><U+272A><U+275D><U+2719>
                                                                               <U+273C><U+2739>                  <U+271C>
                                                               <U+2720><U+271B>                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720><U+272B>                                                                                      <U+2720><U+2738>
                                                               <U+273C>   <U+272B><U+271B>                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>               <U+272B><U+2738>                                                                         <U+273C>   <U+272B><U+273A>
               <U+270E><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+272A><U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2746>   <U+2721><U+2711> <U+25D7><U+2714><U+272A><U+2712><U+2721><U+270C><U+2717>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2719><U+2711>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711>
                 <U+273C>   <U+272B><U+271C>
                                                               <U+2720><U+2739>                                                                                                                                                  <U+2720><U+2739>                                                                                      <U+2720><U+273B>
                                                               <U+273C>   <U+272B><U+272B>                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>               <U+272B><U+2739>                                                                         <U+273C>   <U+272B><U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+25BC><U+270F><U+270C><U+2721><U+270F><U+270D> <U+275A><U+2719><U+271A><U+2663><U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+270E><U+272A><U+271A><U+2719><U+2711><U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711>

<removed-date>
                                <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                        <U+276F> <U+2762>         <U+270D><U+2721> <U+2721><U+2719><U+275E> <U+270E><U+270F><U+270D><U+270C><U+2711><U+270F><U+2712><U+2712><U+2719><U+2711><U+2731> <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+272A><U+270D><U+275E>                                     <U+2746><U+275D>              <U+270C><U+2714><U+272A><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711>
              <U+2748><U+2666><U+2660><U+2660><U+2709><U+2665><U+2710><U+275D><U+275B>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>
                 <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2665><U+2761><U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767>
                                                                                            <U+2748><U+2666><U+2665>tr<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767><U+2761>r                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+276F><U+2665><U+2710>t
                                                                                                                <U+273D><U+2737><U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273D><U+2739><U+2735>
                              <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t                                                         <U+25BC><U+2666>t<U+2710><U+2666><U+2665>                                                                          <U+275A><U+2761><U+2660><U+2663><U+2761>r<U+275B>t<U+2709>r<U+2761>                                                                                                             <U+2748><U+275B><U+2660><U+2761>r<U+275B>                <U+2746><U+2710>r <U+25D7><U+2709><U+275B><U+2767><U+2710>t<U+2461>
                              <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                        <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                              <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r                                                                                                                     <U+2759><U+2761><U+2665>s<U+2666>r
                               <U+273D><U+2738><U+2736>                                                                          <U+273D><U+2738><U+2737>                                                                                             <U+273D><U+2738><U+2738>                                                                                             <U+273D><U+2738><U+2739>              <U+273D><U+2738><U+2739>

<removed-date>
                                    <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                    <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                                                        <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2711><U+272D><U+2718><U+272E>
                                                                        <U+270E><U+272A><U+2712><U+2721><U+2715><U+2711><U+272A><U+270C><U+2721><U+270F><U+270D>
                   <U+2749><U+2719>      <U+2762>
                           <U+272A><U+2714><U+2712><U+270C>   P<U+2711><U+270F>   <U+2762>   <U+2721><U+2712><U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+275A>               <U+2711><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2719><U+2711><U+2719>                                                 <U+275E> <U+275A>                             <U+2711><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2719><U+2711><U+2719>                 <U+275E>   <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2711><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2719><U+2711><U+2719>   <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>                                                                                         <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>                     <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>
                      <U+270C><U+271B>            <U+270C><U+272B>                                                              <U+270C>       <U+2738>
              P<U+270F><U+2707><U+2719><U+2711>    <U+276F><U+2663>
                <U+272D><U+270C><U+271C><U+272E>

<removed-date>
                                         <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                         <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                                                         <U+270E><U+261E><U+272A><U+270D><U+261B><U+2719> <U+2749><U+272A><U+271A><U+2663><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>
                                                             <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2711><U+2708><U+272A><U+2712>
                <U+275A><U+2711><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2719><U+2711><U+2719><U+275E>
                 <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>
                                      <U+274B><U+2721><U+2460><U+2719><U+275E> <U+2746><U+275E><U+2765><U+2714><U+2718><U+270C><U+271A><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C>
                                           <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2711><U+2708><U+272A><U+2712>                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                                  |<U+272A><U+270D><U+275E><U+270F><U+271A>                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712>
                                      <U+275A><U+2721><U+271A><U+2719>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2746><U+275E><U+2765><U+2714><U+2718><U+270C><U+271A><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C>
                                      <U+2749><U+2719><U+2712><U+272A><U+2717>
                                          <U+270E><U+2717><U+275D><U+2712><U+2719> <U+276F><U+270D><U+270C><U+2721><U+2712> <U+275A><U+272A><U+2711><U+261B><U+2719><U+270C>
                                       <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712> <U+261E><U+272A><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2719><U+2719><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2719><U+272A><U+275D><U+261E><U+2719><U+275E>
              <U+270D><U+2721><U+270C><U+2721><U+272A><U+2712> <U+2713><U+270C><U+272A><U+2715><U+2721><U+2712><U+2721><U+2462><U+272A><U+270C><U+2721><U+270F><U+270D>                      |<U+2719><U+2663><U+2719><U+272A><U+270C> <U+276F><U+2663><U+270F><U+270D> <U+25C6><U+2719><U+2460><U+270C>
                       <U+275A><U+2721><U+271A><U+2719>                                                              <U+275A><U+2711><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+2719><U+2711><U+2719><U+275E>
                                                                                             <U+2713><U+2719><U+270D><U+2718><U+2721><U+270D><U+261B>

<removed-date>
                                        <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>       <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                        <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>   <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+275A><U+272A><U+2711><U+261B><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+2767><U+2761>
              <U+2708><U+2761>   <U+2746><U+275D><U+275D><U+2719><U+2663><U+270C><U+272A><U+2715><U+2712><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712>
              <U+25B2>t
              <U+2764><U+2763>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2749><U+2719><U+2712><U+270C><U+272A> <U+272B>
              <U+2710><U+25B2>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2749><U+2719><U+2712><U+270C><U+272A> <U+271B>
                     <U+270D><U+2721><U+270C><U+2721><U+272A><U+2712>
                    <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712>
                               <U+274B><U+2721><U+2460><U+2719><U+275E> <U+2746><U+275E><U+2765><U+2714><U+2718><U+270C><U+271A><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2711><U+2708><U+272A><U+2712>
                                          <U+2730>
                                  |<U+272A><U+270D><U+275E><U+270F><U+271A> <U+275A><U+2721><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2749><U+2719><U+2712><U+272A><U+2717>

<removed-date>
                                    <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>            <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                    <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>    <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
                                                                                                                                            P<U+2666><U+2605><U+2761>r <U+2665>                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+2736>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2709><U+2663>t                                                                                                                <U+2756><U+275D><U+275D><U+2709><U+2663><U+275B><U+2665><U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2759><U+2767><U+2761><U+2761><U+2663> P<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767>
                      <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+2738>                                                                                                                  <U+2749><U+2761>t<U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2761><U+275E>                                             <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+273A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+2739>                                                                                                                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                            <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>
                                                                                                                                            <U+275B>t <U+275A><U+275B>r<U+2763><U+2761>t                                                <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                               <U+273B>                                                                                                           <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                 <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                     <U+25B2><U+275B>r<U+2763><U+2761> <U+2749><U+2761><U+2767>t<U+275B> <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761>
                                                                                                                                <U+2746><U+275D><U+275D><U+2761><U+2663>t<U+275B><U+275C><U+2767><U+2761>                                                                   <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735><U+273D>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                          <U+273C>                                                                                                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2768>
                                                                                                        <U+2759><U+2660><U+275B><U+2767><U+2767> <U+2749><U+2761><U+2767>t<U+275B> <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761>
                                                                                                               <U+2736><U+2737><U+2735>                                                               <U+273E>
                                                                                                                        |           <U+275B><U+2665><U+275E><U+2666><U+2660> <U+2749><U+2761><U+2767><U+275B><U+2461>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735>
                                                                                                                    <U+2665><U+275D>r<U+2761><U+275B>s<U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+275C><U+2461>
                                                                                                                          <U+2749><U+2761><U+2767>t<U+275B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2736>
               <U+2759><U+2767><U+2761><U+2761><U+2663> <U+276F><U+2665>t<U+2710><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2460><U+2761><U+275E><U+274B>                                                                               <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2746><U+275C><U+2666>rt <U+2761><U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2663><U+2709>t<U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2731> |
              <U+2746><U+275E> <U+2709>st<U+2660><U+2761><U+2665>t <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B><U+2767>
                <U+2765>                                                                                           <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761> <U+2729><U+2762><U+2762><U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2710><U+2708><U+2761>                                                                                                         <U+2744>                                                                               <U+275A><U+275B>r<U+2763><U+2761>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>
                    <U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2738>                        <U+2768>
                                                                                                                  <U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2737>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+25C6>              <U+2736><U+2737><U+2736><U+2739>

<removed-date>
                                    <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>       <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                    <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>   <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2767><U+2761>
              <U+2708><U+2761>
              <U+25B2>t                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2749><U+2719><U+2712><U+270C><U+272A> <U+2738>
              <U+2764><U+2763>
              <U+2710><U+25B2>   <U+270D><U+2721><U+270C><U+2721><U+272A><U+2712>
                   <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+275A><U+272A><U+2711><U+261B><U+2719><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2719><U+2708><U+2719><U+2712>
                        <U+274B><U+2721><U+2460><U+2719><U+275E> <U+2746><U+275E><U+2765><U+2714><U+2718><U+270C><U+271A><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2711><U+2708><U+272A><U+2712>
                                   <U+2730>
                           |<U+272A><U+270D><U+275E><U+270F><U+271A> <U+275A><U+2721><U+271A><U+2719> <U+2749><U+2719><U+2712><U+272A><U+2717>

<removed-date>
                                    <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>           <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>            <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                                    <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>       <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>    <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2709><U+2663>t                                                                                                                <U+2756><U+275D><U+275D><U+2709><U+2663><U+275B><U+2665><U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2759><U+2767><U+2761><U+2761><U+2663> P<U+2666><U+2767><U+2767>
                      <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735><U+2736>                                                                                                                  <U+2749><U+2761>t<U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2761><U+275E>                                             <U+2744>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735><U+273A>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735><U+2737>                                                                                                                                           <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                            <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                           |<U+2761>s<U+2761>t <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761>
                                                                                                                                            <U+275B>t <U+275A><U+275B>r<U+2763><U+2761>t                                                <U+2744>                                                                                                           <U+2749><U+275B><U+2660><U+2663><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B><U+2767>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735><U+2738>                                                                                                                                          <U+2768>                        <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735><U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+25C6>
                                                                                                <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761> <U+2605><U+2710>t<U+2764><U+2710><U+2665> <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761>
                                                                                                 <U+2749><U+275B><U+2660><U+2663><U+2710><U+2665><U+2763> <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B><U+2767>                                                                                                                    <U+2744>
                                                                                                       <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                                       <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2768>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+25C6>
                                                                                                        <U+2759><U+2660><U+275B><U+2767><U+2767> <U+2749><U+2761><U+2767>t<U+275B> <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761>
                                                                                                               <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                <U+2749><U+2761><U+275D>r<U+2761><U+275B>s<U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+275C><U+2461>
                                                                                                                     <U+2749><U+2761><U+2767>t<U+275B>
                                                                                                                     <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735><U+273D>
               <U+2759><U+2767><U+2761><U+2761><U+2663> <U+276F><U+2665>t<U+2710><U+2767> <U+2710><U+2460><U+2761><U+275E><U+274B>                                                                               <U+25B2><U+2710><U+2763><U+2764>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2746><U+275C><U+2666>rt <U+2761><U+275D><U+2666><U+2660><U+2663><U+2709>t<U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2731> |
              <U+2746><U+275E> <U+2709>st<U+2660><U+2761><U+2665>t <U+2665>t<U+2761>r<U+2708><U+275B><U+2767>
                <U+2765>                                                                                           <U+2748><U+2764><U+275B><U+2665><U+2763><U+2761> <U+2729><U+2762><U+2762><U+2761><U+275D>t<U+2710><U+2708><U+2761>                                                                                                         <U+2744>                                                                                    <U+275A><U+275B>r<U+2763><U+2761>t <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767>
                    <U+2736><U+2739><U+2736><U+2735>                        <U+2768>
                                                                                                                  <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>                                                            <U+273E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+25C6>                   <U+2736><U+2739><U+2736><U+2736>

<removed-date>
                       <U+2717>   <U+2718>   <U+2718>   <U+2719>       <U+271A>       <U+271B>   <U+271C>   <U+2722>           <U+2723>       <U+2719>           <U+2724>       <U+2725>       <U+271C>       <U+2718>           <U+271B>       <U+2726>       <U+2727>       <U+2605>       <U+271C>           <U+271A>       <U+271C>       <U+271B>           <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>   <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+272D>       <U+272E>   <U+272E>   <U+272E>       <U+272F>   <U+2730>   <U+2724>   <U+2718>
                                       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+2718>   <U+2729>       <U+271C>   <U+2731>       <U+2723>       <U+272A>   <U+2732>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+272A>       <U+2605>   <U+2726>       <U+2718>       <U+271C>       <U+2723>       <U+2729>       <U+272A>   <U+272B>       <U+272C>       <U+2718>       <U+272A>   <U+271B>       <U+272B>           <U+2724>           <U+2719>       <U+271B>       <U+2718>       <U+271A>       <U+2719>       <U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2749><U+274A><U+275A><U+274A><U+270E><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2746> <U+2720><U+25CF><U+274D><U+275A> <U+2746><U+2749><U+274F><U+276F><U+2713><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+275A>|<U+25CF><U+25CF><U+274A>| <U+274A><U+2771><U+274A><U+25C6><U+275A>
                                                                                                                                               <U+271B><U+273A><U+271B><U+271C>
                       <U+2713><U+274A><U+2720><U+274A><U+270E><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+2746> |<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2749><U+2756><U+25BC> <U+2749><U+274A><U+2720><U+2746><U+2768> <U+275A><U+25BC><U+274A>
                                                                                                                                               <U+271B><U+273A><U+272B><U+271C>
              <U+2746><U+2749><U+274F><U+276F><U+2713><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+275A><U+274D><U+274A> <U+2720><U+25CF><U+274D><U+275A><U+2731> <U+2772><U+274D><U+274A>|<U+274A><U+25C6> <U+275A><U+274D><U+274A> <U+2720><U+25CF><U+274D><U+275A> <U+2746><U+2749><U+274F><U+276F><U+2713><U+275A><U+25BC><U+274A><U+25C6><U+275A>
              <U+2756><U+270E><U+270E><U+276F>|<U+2713> <U+275A><U+274D><U+274A> |<U+2746><U+25C6><U+2749><U+2756><U+25BC> <U+2749><U+274A><U+2720><U+2746><U+2768> <U+275A><U+25BC><U+274A> <U+2746><U+274B><U+275A><U+274A>| <U+2749><U+274A><U+275A><U+274A><U+270E><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+275A><U+274D><U+274A>
                        <U+2720><U+25CF><U+274D><U+275A> <U+2746><U+2749><U+274F><U+276F><U+2713><U+275A><U+25C6><U+25CF> <U+275A>|<U+25CF><U+25CF><U+274A>| <U+274A><U+2771><U+274A><U+25C6><U+275A>
                                                                                                                                               <U+271B><U+273A><U+2738><U+271C>

