                                                  16
                                             ABSTRACT
           The present invention is a quality controlled artificial eyelashes extension system
  having two main features. One is the method and materials for the application of artificial lash
  hairs onto existing natural eyelashes of a human subject to extend the length of the natural
5 eyelash. This feature provides the training and materials to attach the eyelash extensions on a
  hair-by-hair basis to a subject's existing natural eyelash. The second is the quality control of
  feature of the present lash extension system which provides for assuring that practitioners of the
  system are appropriately trained, and the consumable materials utilized by the system are safe for
  human use. Quality control assurance of practitioners and consumable materials is accomplished
0 by having programs for practitioner training and certification, and for materials quality assurance
  which controls the quality of the system's consumable materials made available to practitioners.

                                    1/5
                      Practitioners
                  Training Program                      Prtiiers
Administration &
Oversight Program                 Certification Program
                Materials Production &                   Certified
                Quality Control Program                  Materials
                     Raw Material
                                 Fig. I

                                                     1
         QUALITY CONTROLLED ARTIFICIAL EYELASHES EXTENSION SYSTEM
   Continuity Data
   The present application claims the benefit of prior filed US Provisional Patent Application Serial
   Nos. 60/712,757 filed 30 August 2005 and 60/743,948 filed 30 March 2006, and US Utility
 5 Application Serial No. 11/380,277 filed 26 April 2006.
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention is in the field of cosmetic materials and the education and demonstration
   of their proper use.    More specifically, the present invention relates personal grooming and
   artificial eyelashes adapted for attachment on hair growing from an eyelid, and the education and
 0 demonstration of how to properly practice the invention.
   Background of the Invention
   Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such background art is prior art, nor that such background art is
   widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field in Australia or
 5 worldwide.
   All references, including any patents or patent applications, cited in this specification are hereby
   incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any reference constitutes prior art. The
   discussion of the references states what their authors assert, and the Applicants reserve the right
   to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of the cited documents. It will be clearly understood
20 that, although a number of prior art publications are referred to herein, this reference does not
   constitute an admission that any of these documents forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the art, in Australia or in any other country.
   The cosmetic use of artificial eyelashes by persons in the making of their toilet is old in the art.
   Because cosmetic compositions and materials are typically intended for use by persons, it is
25 important that the cosmetic materials and composition be clearly suitable for human use, and that
   the materials and methods used be very simple to practice, or that they be designated and
   controlled for practice by individuals trained in their safe application, especially adhesive
   compositions and solvents. This is particularly important for cosmetic products intended for use
   in the area of a subject's eyes because of the sensitive and delicate nature of the organs and
30 tissues involved.     So, it is important in the field to provide materials and compositions

                                                        2
    appropriate for human use, and also important to provide education and training in the proper use
    of such materials and compositions.
    Typically, artificial eyelashes are applied as a group or cluster to the skin of a wearer's lower
    and/or upper eyelid. Some examples include US Patent Publication No. 2005/0061341 to Choe,
 5  US Patent Publication No. 2002/0056465 to Shin and US Patent No. 6,029,674 to Han. The field
    has even been motivated to combine the cosmetic effect of artificial eyelashes and eyeliner, as in
    US Patent No. 4.029, 111 to Barton. In addition to adhering other decorative cosmetic devices
    such as glitter flakes, costume gems, etc. to the skin of the wearer's eyelids is also known in the
    field to adhere decorative devices to a subject's eyelashes, as illustrated in US Patent Publication
 o  No. 2003/0005941 to Josilevich.         However, these references do not teach or disclose the
    application of artificial eyelashes to the existing natural eyelashes of a subject wearer.
    The cosmetics field has recognized the importance of training and training aids to the skills of
    well qualified practitioners, and has been motivated to develop such training aids. For example,
    see US Patent No. 5,971,763 to Yau for a teaching method and a teaching aid. The field has also
 5  embraced the principle of training and certifying practitioners of certain of the cosmetic arts to
    one degree or another as required under the authority of various local jurisdictions, or by the
    industry itself. Therefore, when a new cosmetic procedure becomes available that may represent
    some level of risk to a subject, it would be beneficial to have a means of controlling the quality
    of the practitioners involved with the new procedure and the quality of the materials and
 10 compositions used in the procedure.
    The preceding discussion of the background to the invention is intended only to facilitate an
    understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated that the discussion is not an
    acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to was part of the common
    general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
25  Summary of the Invention
    It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one or more of the
    disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
    Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words "comprise",
     "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated step or
30  element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or element or group
    of steps or elements.

                                                      3
    In the claims, as well as in the summary above and the description below, all transitional phrases
    such    as   "comprising", "including", "carrying", "having", "containing", "involving",
     "holding", "composed of", and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e. to mean
     "including but not limited to ". Only the transitional phrases "consisting of" and "consisting
 5  essentially of" alone shall be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively.
    Any one of the terms "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used herein is also
    an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
    excluding others. Thus, "including" is synonymous with and means "comprising".
    The present invention is in the field of cosmetics that serve to modify or improve the appearance
 0  of a physical feature of the human countenance, and the methods and materials for their safe use.
    Specifically, one aspect of the present invention is a quality controlled artificial eyelashes
    extension system. In part, the system provides for the application of the artificial lash hairs onto
    the existing natural eyelashes of a human subject to extend the length of the natural eyelash. By
    this feature, the present eyelash extensions differ from typical false eyelashes, in that the present
 5  lash hairs correspond (are attached to) an existing natural eyelash.
    The quality control feature of the present lash extension system resides in its assurance that the
    practitioners of the system are appropriately trained, and the consumable materials utilized by
    the system safe for use on humans.         The system provides for quality control assurance of
    practitioners and of consumable materials by having programs for practitioner training and
 .0 certification, and a program for materials quality assurance which controls the quality of the
    system's consumable materials and makes such materials available to practitioners.
    The present eyelash extensions are a fun and safe alternative to mascara or false lashes, but
    consumers and professionals should follow some basic guidelines when choosing both the
    product and a practitioner to install the product, a care that may not be obvious to the ordinary
25  consumer when choosing a lash extension product. The present system alleviates this need for
    such care.
    Generally, the present quality controlled artificial eyelashes extension system comprises a
    system administrator, practitioner training and certification programs, and a materials quality
    control program. The system administrator component provides the oversight to implement the
30  quality control assurance of the system's practitioners and consumable material according to a
    quality assurance criteria. The training program provides for the education of a practitioner of
    the system. Practitioners of the system are individuals trained in proper practice of the method

                                                      4
   of the system for applying artificial lash hairs on a hair-by-hair basis to a human subject's
   individual eyelashes, and in the proper use of approved artificial eyelashes materials.         The
   training program provides for the quality control assurance that appropriate training to practice
   the method and to use the approved artificial eyelashes materials in a manner safe on the human
 5 subject is available to a participant.     The certification program provides for several quality
   assurance features of the present system, including certifying that a participant has successfully
   completed a training program in the method of the present artificial eyelashes system; whether
   the participant's training status is current; and that the participant is authorized to utilize the
   system's approved artificial eyelashes materials. The materials quality control program assures
 0 the system's consumable artificial eyelashes materials comply with a materials and composition
   quality criteria, and makes the quality assured consumable materials available to practitioners.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals in
   different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
 5 Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention, a
   preferred embodiment/preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
   Fig. 1 is a flow chart illustrating the quality controlled artificial eyelashes extension system of
   the present invention system;
20 Fig. 2 is a process flow chart illustrating an overview of the method of the present invention;
   Figs. 3A and 3B respectively are photographic images illustrating a live workshop component of
   the training program and an instructional video media component of the training program;
   Figs. 4A and 4B respectively a top plan view of a lash patch stored on a backing sheet, and a
   photographic image illustrating positioning and use of the lash patch on a subject;
25 Fig. 5A is a photographic image illustrating a training kit and its contents;
   Fig. 5B is a photographic image of a subject undergoing the application of lash extensions to
   existing natural eyelashes;
   Fig. 5C is a photographic image of the present quality assured safe adhesive and containers of
   the present lash extension hairs;

                                                      5
  Fig. 6 is a top plan drawing of an exemplary layout for a kit container of the present invention;
  and
  Fig. 7 is a perspective drawing of an exemplary single use foil/film packet for containing and
  dispensing either the glue or the solvent of the present invention.
5 Detailed Description of the Invention
  Referring now to the drawings, the details of preferred embodiments of the present invention are
  graphically and schematically illustrated. Like elements in the drawings are represented by like
  numbers, and any similar elements are represented by like numbers with a different lower case
  letter suffix.
0 As illustrated in Fig. 1, the present invention is an artificial eyelashes extension system 10
  providing certified practitioners 34 and consumable materials 40 quality assured for human use.
  Because the system 10 is intended for human use, the health and safety aspects of the system 10
  and its component parts are a feature of the present invention.          In the preferred embodiment
  illustrated, the quality controlled artificial eyelashes extension system 10 comprises a number of
5 program components and inputs and outputs of people and materials. The present system 10
  includes a number of program components, and has inputs of people (trainee-practitioner) 32 and
  raw materials 38 and outputs of certified practitioners 34 and quality assured materials 40 (see
  Table 1).
                                                  TABLE 1
0                                     System Program Components
                Administration Program                  Provides oversight of System operations and
                                                            implementation of System Programs.
                                                             Provides education and training to
                   Training Program                    participants in the proper use of the System's
                                                                   methods and materials.
                                                        Provides for certifying that participants and
          Practitioner Certification Program                 materials meet the System's quality
                                                                      assurance criteria.
                                                              Provides quality assurance of the
                 Materials QC Program                    consumable materials used to practice the
                                                                      System's methods.
              Practitioner/Trainee (input)                Persons entering the Training Program.

                                                      6
              Certified Practitioner (output)          Persons successfully completing the Training
                                                                          Program.
                  Raw Materials (input)                    Raw materials entering Material QC
                                                                          Program.
                  QC Materials (output)                     Quality assured materials for use by
                                                                        Practitioner.
   The system administrator/administration program 16 provides management and oversight of the
   other programs of the system 10 and functions to implement the quality control assurances of the
   system's certified practitioners 34 and consumable material 40 according to a quality assurance
   criteria (ISO 9000). In the preferred embodiment illustrated, the present system 10 also includes
 5 a training program 20, a certification program 24, and a materials quality control program 28.
   Quality assured consumable materials 40 are accomplished by processing raw materials 38 at a
   facility that has met National Quality Assurance (NQA) certification under ISO 9000 standards.
   The inputs to the system 10 comprise "untrained" persons 32 and raw materials 38. Outputs
   from the system include persons who are certified practitioners 34 and certified consumable
 0 materials 40.
   The training program 20 provides instructions and training to persons 32 who desire to enter the
   system 10 and become a certified practitioner 34 of the present lashes extension system 10. Such
    "untrained" persons 32 may be cosmetologists or other beauty/cosmetics professionals, or
   existing practitioners seeking to upgrade their education in the field or to update their
 5 certification. The training program 20 provides trainees with instructions in the proper practice
   systems lash extension method 100 (see Fig. 2). The training program 20 can be implemented
   by using instructional materials selected from any one or more of a number of educational
   means. Such instructional materials include video media 88 (see Fig. 3B) having participant
   training material included therein, live workshop training sessions 44 (see Fig. 3A),
20 video-conferencing training sessions, multi-media training courses, and self-training kits.
   In the preferred embodiment illustrated, the training program 20 was implemented not only using
   live workshop training sessions 44, but also with self-starter/self-training kits 90 (see Fig. 5). A
   starter training kit 90 contains all the items required for a professional in the field to get started.
   Each kit 90 serviced approximately 200 client subjects when used properly.                  A typical
25 self-training kit 90 contained an instructional DVD 88; containers 61 of three different lengths of
   lash Extension hairs 60, 8mm, 10mm, 12mm; surgical quality stainless steel fine point forceps
   straight and curved; double-sided glue dipping trays/dishes; a lash comb and brush;

                                                      7
   pharmaceutical grade, non-fume adhesive 68; adhesive remover; air blower for accelerating
   curing of the adhesive; shaped lower lash protectors 74; medical tape for sensitive skin; aftercare
   instructions; and explanatory product brochures for subjects.
   Also, the preferred embodiment utilizing workshop training sessions 44 and self-training kits 90
 5 further comprises a testing means for assessing a participant's successful completion of the
   training program 20.       Additionally, in the preferred embodiment, the training program
   instructional materials included an artificial human countenance 46 on which to practice the
   method 100 of the present system 10 for applying artificial eyelash extensions 60.
   The workshop training sessions 44 comprised a 6-7 hour high intensity workshop. The course
 o included a theory section from a workbook, and discussed not only the basic extension method
   100, but also the science behind the method 100, health and safety issues and some advanced
   practices. At the completion of the lecture portion of the training workshop 44, trainees were
   required to take the theoretical part of the certification test. During the practicum portion of the
   workshop 44, trainees practiced the extension method 100 on an artificial human countenance 46
 5 (a mannequin head) as well as on live human models. Class size was kept small to ensure that
   each participant received personalized instruction and attention from the trainer.
   The artificial eyelash extension method 100 of the present system provides for applying artificial
   lash hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair basis to a human subject's individual eyelashes 64 in a manner
   safe for the human subject 70.         The present lash extensions system 10 is currently for
 o professional use only. At home use or use by non-professionals currently is not recommended,
   as it may result in damage to eyes or loss of vision. Generally, the steps of the method include:
   -         Cleansing 108 the area of the subject's eyes with mild cleanser prior to application.
             Note, use of eye makeup removers containing PEG (polyethylene glycol), propylene
             glycol, or any other glycol-based ingredients can result in failure of lash hairs 60 to
25           bond;
   -         Applying 114 artificial lash extension hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair basis to the human
             subject's individual eyelashes 64, using a low /non-blooming, oil and water resistant
             adhesive 68 consisting of 100% pure U.S. Pharmaceutical Grade ingredients. Note, a
             preferred adhesive/glue 68 of the present system 10 was high viscosity, low-blooming
30           and low-fuming, and contained a black pigment/colorant. The intended viscosity of the
             glue 68 is between about 800 and 2000 cP. In the preferred embodiment of the figures,
             the glue 68 was an ethoxyethyl cyanoacrylate based composition; and

                                                        8
    -          Repeating 118 the applying step 114 an appropriate number of times to have applied at
               least one artificial lash hair extension 60 to a desired number of the subject's existing
               natural eyelashes 64. Note, not every one of the subject's natural eyelashes 64 may
               need to have an extension lash hair 60 adhered to it, and more than one extension lash
 5             hair 60 may be attached to the same existing natural eyelash 64. The desired density of
               artificial lash extension hairs 60 in a particular subject's case is a personal preference
               and is determinable by one of ordinary skill in the art.
    In the preferred embodiment illustrated in Fig. 5B, after the cleansing step 108, a site preparation
    step was practiced. The site preparation step comprised positioning 122 an eyelid separating
 0  film or patch 74 over the eyelashes and adjacent eyelid rim of an (usually lower) eyelid (not
    being worked on) that is to be separated from the eyelashes of the eyelid being worked on. The
    eyelid separating patch 74 is a very easy and economical way to protect and separate, for
    example, the lower eyelid's lashes from the upper eyelids lashes while the latter are being
    worked on (see Fig. 4B). The patch/film 74 has a hypo-allergenic adhesive film (not shown) that
 5  adheres lightly to the delicate skin of the eye area, and is removable without pulling the skin or
    dislodging healthy eyelashes.
    A subject 70 must take care to not rub or scratch the eyes after application of the artificial lash
    extensions 60. Also, after the extensions 60 are adhered to the subject's natural eyelashes 64,
    only NON-waterproof mascara may be used. Use of waterproof mascara can cause lashes to
 1o loosen. Repeated use of even water soluble mascara may shorten the life of the lash extensions
    60. Use of eye makeup removers containing PEG (polyethylene glycol), propylene glycol or any
    other glycol-based ingredients can result in failure of lash hairs bonds. Eye creams, eye makeup
    remover and facial moisturizers containing oils or solvents can cause the lash extensions 60 to
    loosen. Therefore, it is recommended that eye creams be used sparingly and to avoid the lash
25  line area.
    The present artificial eyelashes extension system 10 provides for the lengthening and thickening
    of a subject's eyelashes 64. Applying the individual artificial lash hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair
    basis to the subject's own lashes 64 provides a totally natural look. When properly applied the
    present eyelash extensions 60 can last up to two months or more. Touch-ups are recommended
30  after initial full set application to replace any lash extension hairs 60 that might may be
    dislodged or fall off because they were attached to a "beyond maturity natural" existing natural
    eyelash 64. An important object of the present system 10 s to provide safe lash extensions that

                                                      9
   when properly applied will last for the length of the natural growth cycle of each eyelash of the
   subject to which the extensions are attached.
   The certification program 24 provides for the certification of persons 32 that successfully
   complete a training program 20 of the system 10, and provides 1 hardcopy certificate 34a to such
 5 participant.   The certificate 34a evidences to the public and to interested subjects that the
   certified practitioner 34 has successfully completed a system training program and is authorized
   to utilize the system's approved artificial eyelashes materials.      The certificate 34a can also
   evidence the level of training of the certified participant 34 and whether the participant's training
   is current. The certification program 24 is also responsible for certifying that the consumable
 0 artificial eyelashes materials 40 provided under the egis of the system 10 meet the appropriate
   quality assurance criteria.
   The materials quality control program 28 provides that the system's products are produced from
   the raw materials in a manner consistent with the system's ISO 9000 quality assurance criteria.
   This is accomplished as noted above, by having critical compositions formulated using USP
 5 grade materials in a National Quality Assurance (NQA) certified facility.
   The adhesive 68 of the present invention is surgical quality and approved for use in the eye area
   of humans. To the contrary, most lash adhesives currently produced and imported from Asia are
   industrial quality adhesives that are not FDA approved for cosmetic or medical applications. For
   example, many black pigmented cyanoacrylate adhesives were originally formulated with the
 o automotive industry in mind, and can contain impurities that are not safe for use on humans. It is
   a feature of the adhesive 68 of the present invention that its ingredients are "USP" or
    "U.S. PharmaceuticalGrade-Class IV". This means that the adhesive is pure, medical quality
   surgical glue, and is safe for use on the eye area. Generally, a patch test is not required to check
   for skin reaction, because the lashes and glue are intended to not come in contact with skin the
25 subject's skin.
   The adhesive/glue 68 of the present invention is high viscosity, low blooming and low fuming
   and contains a black pigment/colorant. The intended viscosity of the glue is between about 800
   and 2000 cP.      In a preferred embodiment, the glue was an ethoxyethyl cyanoacrylate based
   composition, having the physical characteristics noted above.          An example of base glue
30 composition practicable in the present invention is Apollo 51 OOTM (Cyberbond, Ltd,
   www.cyberbond.com).

                                                      10
    It is intended that the practice of the present system 10 be carried out by a licensed
    cosmetologist, esthetician, permanent makeup technician or beautician. Further, it is intended in
    the present system 10, the such practitioner be specifically certified to provide lash extension
    services using system 10. An instructional video is provided with the kit of the present invention
 5  as well as instructional material in the kit itself. Additionally, as part of the certification to
    practice the present system, it is intended that 5-10 practice sessions are required before
    certifying practitioners to use the present system 10.
    In a preferred embodiment of the kit 90 of the present system, one kit will provide approximately
    200 subject applications when used properly. Only one drop of glue is required per client, and
 0  30 to 40 lashes. To provide this many applications for different subjects and to create a more
    natural, feathery, thick look, the preferred embodiment of the kit includes three lengths of
    individual artificial eyelashes. Longer lashes can be used towards the center or at the corner of
    the eye, depending on a subject's style preference.
    As shown in Fig. 6, an artificial eyelashes kit for use on humans with the present artificial
 5  eyelash extension system 10 includes a lidded housing 92 for holding all of the other components
    of the kit. In a preferred embodiment of the kit, the lidded housing 92 was compartmented to
    hold similar components together, but separate from other different components and was
    closeable by means of the lid. The kit contained a plurality of single artificial eyelashes such as
    are known in the field. A supply of a specific length of single artificial eyelashes was stored in
 10 an eyelash container. A plurality of eyelash containers were included in the kit for storing a
    selection of different length individual eyelashes.
    At least one implement 82 such as forceps or tweezers for grasping and manipulating an
    individual artificial eyelash in included in the kit. Preferably, more than one such implement is
    included. Such implements are known in the field and selectable by one of ordinary skill for use
25  in the present kit. At least one dispensing container of a fast-drying glue for adhering the
    individual eyelashes to a subject's existing eyelashes is included in the kit. In a preferred
    embodiment, a plurality of single use dispensing containers 94 are supplied with the kit (see
    Fig. 7).
    The preferred kit further included a grooming tool 84 useful for manipulating the subject's
30  existing eyelashes to facilitate proper application of the individual eyelash, and a plurality of
    eyelid contour patches. The eyelid contour patches had an adhesive on one side and were useful
    to provide a surface for separating the upper eyelid lashes from the bottom eyelid lashes during

                                                    11
  application of individual lashes to one or the other eyelids, but especially when applying
  individual lashes to the upper eyelid. As noted above, the kit also included instructions on the
  proper practice of the invention to apply the artificial eyelashes on humans.
  In the preferred embodiment, the artificial eyelashes kit further included at least one dispensing
5 container of eyelash remover to dissolve the glue adhering the artificial eyelashes to the subject's
  eyelashes. Such solvent are known in the art and in view of the present disclosure are selectable
  by the ordinary skilled artisan for practice in the present invention.      An example of such a
  remover solvent is UNDO 6020TM (Cyberbond, Ltd, www.cyberbond.com).                The instructions
  included the proper practice of the invention to remove the artificial eyelashes on humans.
0 Optionally, the kit may contain other components as desired to further facilitate practice of the
  invention on humans. These include a number of components useful for their ordinary purposes
  in the field of cosmetology, such as make-up brushes, a suction bulb useful for providing a
  gentle stream of air to enhance drying time of the glue as well as its other ordinary uses in
  cosmetology, and cotton swabs. A roll of plastic medical adhesive tape can be included as an
5 alternative to the eyelid contour patches, and a number of petri dish type vessels can be included
  as secondary holders for smaller more manageable number of individual artificial eyelashes.
  Additionally, in a preferred embodiment, a mirror was mounted on the inside of the lid of the
  lidded housing.
  While the above description contains many specifics, these should not be construed as
o limitations on the scope of the invention, but rather as exemplifications of one or another
  preferred embodiment thereof. Many other variations are possible, which would be obvious to
  one skilled in the art. Accordingly, the scope of the invention should be determined by the scope
  of the appended claims and their equivalents, and not just by the embodiments.

                                                       12
    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1.         A quality controlled artificial eyelashes system 10 assured for safe use on humans, the
    system providing quality control assurance of practitioners 32 and of consumable materials 38,
    the system comprising:
 5             a system administrator 16 providing oversight to implement the quality control
    assurance of the system's practitioners and consumable material according to a quality assurance
    criteria;
               a training program 20 instructing a practitioner 32 of the system in proper practice of a
    method of the system 10 for applying artificial lash hairs 60 oil a hair-by-hair basis to a human
 0  subject's individual eyelashes 64, and in the proper use of approved artificial eyelashes materials
    40, the training program 20 providing for the quality control assurance of the .raining of the
    participant 32 to practice the method and to use the approved artificial eyelashes extension
    materials in a manner safe on the human subject;
               a certification 24 program providing a certificate 34a to the participant 32, the certificate
 5  34a evidencing to the subject that the practitioner 32 has successfully completed the training
    program 20 and has current appropriate training in the method of the system and is authorized to
    utilize the system's approved artificial eyelashes materials 40; and
               a materials quality control program 28 to quality assure the system's consumable
    artificial eyelashes materials and to provide the quality assured consumable materials 40;
 .O            wherein further, the system includes materials adapted to facilitate an eyelash extension
    process in which the practitioner 32 extends the length and thickness of a subject's eyelashes by
    applying artificial lash hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair basis to the subject's individual eyelashes 64,
    and adhering a single artificial lash hair 60 to a subject's individual eyelash 64.
    2.         The quality controlled artificial eyelashes system 10 of Claim 1, wherein the training
25  program 20 comprises instructional materials including at least one training means selected from
    the group consisting of:
               a video medium 88 having participant training material included therein;
               a live workshop training session 44 a video-conferencing training session; and
               a multi-media training course, or a training kit 90, and further comprises:
30                       a testing means for assessing the participant's successful completion of the
               training program 20; and
                         the date of the successful completion.

                                                         13
    3.         The training program 20 of Claim 3, wherein the instructional materials include an
    artificial human countenance 46 on which to practice the method for applying artificial lash
    hairs.
    4.         A quality controlled artificial eyelashes system 10 assured for sate use on humans, the
 5  system providing quality control assurance of practitioners 32 and of consumable materials 38,
    the system comprising:
               a system administrator 16 providing oversight to implement the quality control
    assurance of the system's practitioners and consumable material according to a quality assurance
    criteria;
 0             a training program 20 instructing a practitioner 32 of the system in proper practice of a
    method of the system 10 for applying artificial lash hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair basis to a human
    subject's individual eyelashes 64, and in the proper use of approved artificial eyelashes materials
    40, the training program 70 providing for the quality control assurance of the training of the
    participant 32 to practice the method and to use the approved artificial eyelashes extension
 5  materials in a manner safe on the human subject;
               a certification 24 program providing a certificate 34a to the participant 32, the certificate
    34a evidencing to the subject that the practitioner 32 has successfully completed the training
    program 20 and has current appropriate (raining in the method of the system and is authorized to
    utilize the system's approved artificial eyelashes materials 40; and
 .0            a materials quality control program 28 to quality assure the system's consumable
    artificial eyelashes materials and to provide the quality assured consumable materials 40;
               wherein further the quality control assured consumable artificial eyelashes materials 40
    includes at least one dispensing container of glue 68 for adhering the artificial lash hairs 60 to the
    subject's eyelashes 64, the glue 68 consisting of USP grade ingredients and being high viscosity,
25  low blooming and low fuming ethoxyethyl cyanoacrylate based composition and containing a
    black pigment, and having a viscosity between about 800 and 2000 cP.
    5.         The quality controlled artificial eyelashes system 10 of Claim 1, wherein the
    certification program 24 includes:
               a hard copy certificate 34a duly executed by the system administrator 16;
30             the certificate 34a identifying the certified practitioner 34;
               a level of training successfully completed by the certified practitioner 34;
               a training completion date; and
               any validity period of the certified practitioner's certification.

                                                       14
    6.        A method of applying lash extension hairs 60 to the existing eyelashes 64 of a human
    subject comprising the steps of:
              cleansing an area around the subject's eyes with a mild cleanser free of polyethylene
    glycol, propylene glycol, and other glycol-based ingredients;
  5           positioning an eyelid separating film patch 74 to cover a set of existing natural
    eyelashes and skin adjacent an eyelid rim of an eyelid not being worked on to separate the
    covered set of existing natural eyelashes from the eyelashes of an eyelid being worked on and to
    assure that adhesive docs not contact the subject's skin;
              applying and attaching artificial lash extension hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair basis to the
  0 human subject's existing eyelashes 64 of the eyelid being worked on, using a low/non-blooming,
    low-fuming, oil and water resistant adhesive 68 consisting of 100% pure U.S. Pharmaceutical
    Grade ingredients, the adhesive being an ethoxyethyl cyanoacrylate based composition
    containing a black pigment and having a viscosity between about 800 and 2000 cP; and
              repeating the applying and attaching step an appropriate number of times to have
  5 applied at least one artificial lash hair extension 60 to a desired number of the subject's existing
    natural eyelashes 64 to accomplish applying lash, extension hairs 60 to the existing eyelashes 64
    of a human subject.
    7.        A quality controlled artificial eyelashes system 10 assured for safe use on humans, the
    system providing quality control assurance of practitioners 32 and of consumable materials 38,
 .o the system comprising:
              a system administrator 16 providing oversight to implement the quality control
    assurance of the system's practitioners and consumable material according to a quality assurance
    criteria;
              a training program 20 instructing a practitioner 32 of the system in proper practice of a
25  method of the system 10 for applying artificial lash hairs 60 on a hair-by-hair basis to a human
    subject's individual eyelashes 64, and in the proper use of approved artificial eyelashes materials
    40, the training program 20 providing for the quality control assurance of the training of the
    participant 32 to practice the method and to use the approved artificial eyelashes extension
    materials in a manner safe on the human subject;
30            a certification 24 program providing a certificate 34a to the participant 32, the certificate
    34a evidencing to the subject that the practitioner 32 has .successfully completed the training
    program 20 and has current appropriate training in the method of the system and is authorized to
    utilize the system's approved artificial eyelashes materials 40; and

                                                          15
               a materials quality control program 28 to quality assure the system's consumable
    artificial eyelashes materials and to provide the quality assured consumable materials 40;
               wherein further the quality control assured consumable artificial eyelashes materials arc
    provided as a kit 90 , the kit 90 comprising:
 5                        a lidded housing 92 for holding all of the other components of the kit, the
               housing 92 being compartmented to hold similar components separate from other
               different components and closeable by means of the Hd;
                          a plurality of single artificial lash hairs 60 of a specific length stored in an
               eyelash container 61;
 0                        a plurality of eyelash containers 61 storing a selection of different length
               artificial lashes hairs;
                          at least one implement 82 for grasping and manipulating a single artificial lash
               hair 60;
                          at least one dispensing container of a fast-drying glue 68 for adhering the
 5             single lash hair 60 to an individual eyelash 64 of the subject, the glue 68 additionally
               being high viscosity, low blooming and low fuming and containing a black pigment;
                          a grooming tool 84 useful for manipulating the subject's existing eyelashes to
               facilitate proper application of the individual lash hairs;
                          a plurality of eyelid contour patches 74 having an adhesive on one side and
 .0            useful to provide a surface for separating the subject's upper eyelid eyelashes from the
               bottom eyelid eyelashes during application of individual lash hairs to one of the other
               eyelids; and
                          instructions 88 on the proper practice of the invention to apply the artificial
               lash hairs 60 on human subjects.
25  8.         The quality control assured consumable artificial eyelashes materials kit 90 of Claim 6,
    wherein the kit further includes:
               at least one dispensing container of artificial lash hair remover 66 to dissolve the glue
    68 adhering the artificial lash hairs 60 to the subject's eyelashes 64; and
               the instructions 88 that include the proper practice of the invention to remove the
30  system's artificial lash hairs 60 from the human subject's eyelashes 64.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
