                                         ABSTRACT
        There has been exponential growth in the capture and retention of immense
quantities of information in a globally distributed manner. A closed-loop unified metadata
architecture includes a universal metadata repository and implements data quality and
data lineage analyses. The architecture solves significant technical challenges to provide
a meaningful, consistent and normalized view of the metadata that describes the
information, as well as to determine data lineage and meaningful data quality metrics.

                   1/12
                              MI   0--
                 a)         S
        -c
         -
          a)        0
              0
                              ca.-~
                                 0     ~       ca.
             0                a)i  0.=          a  /
                                   00         0    M.
                                          cni
                      CC,4
       0     a()
   a)       LL              f
                       C/)U
                         00
C>
                               a)m       -Fo  a)      -m  a)
                 0            -w Mw 0                    0
    L)           0            x
                              a)u~66                   a
                uj
                C/)           w

                                              1
        CLOSED-LOOP UNIFIED METADATA ARCHITECTURE WITH
                     UNIVERSAL METADATA REPOSITORY
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[1]        The present application is entitled to a right of priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C.
§119 from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/424,199 filed November 18, 2016,
which is herein entirely incorporated by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[2]        This disclosure relates to complex processing of metadata from diverse data
sources to provide a unified metadata view, and to use the metadata to drive data
analytics, including data quality and data lineage analyses.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[3]        The processing power, network bandwidth, available storage space, and other
resources available to computing systems have increased exponentially in recent
decades. Advances in computing systems, both local and cloud-based, have led to the
capture, storage, and retention of immense quantities of information content in a globally
distributed manner. It is a significant technical challenge to obtain a meaningful,
consistent and normalized view of the metadata that describes the information content,
as well as to perform meaningful analytics on the information content.

                                              2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[4]         In one aspect, the present invention provides a method including in a network
connected hardware system identifying a pre-defined workflow for analysis, selecting
data sources that provide input data to the pre-defined workflow, with communication
circuitry retrieving source metadata from the data sources that characterizes the input
data to the pre-defined workflow, providing the source metadata to repository processing
circuitry, and with the repository processing circuitry integrating the source metadata into
a universal metadata repository, performing data analytics on the input data driven by the
universal metadata repository, and executing a feedback loop responsive to the data
analytics to deliver a source data feedback message to at least one of the data sources.
[5]         In another aspect, the present invention provides a closed-loop unified
metadata processing system including a processor, universal metadata circuitry
executable by the processor to retrieve source metadata from each of a plurality of
different data sources that provide input data to a pre-defined workflow, the source
metadata characterizing the input data, metadata ingestion circuitry executable by the
processor to normalize the source metadata into a universal metadata repository,
metadata analytics circuitry executable by the processor to perform data analytics on the
input data driven by the universal metadata repository, and event manager circuitry
executable by the processor to execute a feedback loop responsive to the data analytics
to deliver a source data feedback message to at least one of the data sources.
[6]         In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium including instructions executable by a processor, the instructions
including instructions executable by the processor to select a plurality of data sources
that provide input data to a pre-defined workflow, instructions executable by the processor
to ingest a dataset of metadata from each of the data sources, the dataset of metadata
characterizing the input data to the pre-defined workflow, instructions executable by the
processor normalize the ingested dataset of metadata to a uniform schema, instructions
executable by the processor to identify a key data frame in each of the ingested datasets,
instructions executable by the processor to store the key data frame in a universal
metadata repository in association with a timestamp to be representative of the ingested
data set, instructions executable by the processor to generate an incidence schema graph
including a technical context graph and a business context graph based on the universal

                                             3
metadata repository, instructions executable by the processor to perform data quality
analysis and data lineage analysis according to the incidence schema graph, and
instructions executable by the processor to generate a feedback message for
transmission to one of the plurality of data sources, the feedback message including a
data quality alert or a data lineage alert.

                                             4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[7]        Figure 1 shows a closed-loop universal metadata architecture that implements
a universal metadata repository.
[8]        Figure 2 shows another example implementation of the architecture.
[9]        Figure 3 shows an example of logic that the architecture may implement for
analyzing data quality.
[10]       Figure 4 shows an example of logic that the architecture may implement for
analyzing data lineage.
[11]       Figure 5 shows an example of logic that the architecture may implement for
performing data discovery.
[12]       Figure 6 shows an example of logic that the architecture may implement for
performing mapping of business metadata to technical metadata objects.
[13]       Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating an example of the functionality of the
architecture.
[14]       Figure 8 is a block diagram of an example of logic layers included within the
architecture.
[15]       Figure 9 is an example of a incidence graph schema for the architecture.
[16]       Figure 10 is an example depicting a lineage data structure.
[17]       Figure 11 is an operational flow diagram illustrating example operation of the
architecture.
[18]       Figure 12 is second part of the operational flow diagram of Figure 11 illustrating
example operation of the architecture.

                                                5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[19]       A closed-loop universal metadata architecture ("architecture") implements a
universal metadata       repository ("UMR")       and   performs data      analytics, including
determining and maintaining data lineage, and determining meaningful data quality
metrics. The architecture automatically scans and captures metadata characterizing input
data driven into any pre-defined enterprise workflows from any number and type of data
sources, whether internal to an enterprise or external to the enterprise that hosts the
workflows. The architecture        may be programmatically         used for data tracking,
management, review, reporting and many other purposes.
[20]       The UMR is universal in the sense that it provides a single logical user interface
view of input data to the workflows, including business and technical data in the form of,
for example, a graph schema. The programmatic capabilities of the architecture
implement flexible data lineage tracking, data quality determination, data gap filling, and
discovery of additional data via, e.g., similarity detection. The UMR integrates any desired
data profiles and similarity profiles across an entire enterprise platform. The architecture
includes a feedback loop that, e.g., enforces business rules, re-scans the data sources,
and updates the UMR on any scheduled or directed basis.
[21]       Figures 1 and 2 provide an example context for the discussion below of the
technical solutions in the architecture, including the UMR, data quality metrics, data
lineage and reporting. The examples in Figures 1 and 2 show possible implementations.
In that respect, the technical solutions in the architecture are not limited in their application
or implementation to the systems shown in Figures 1 and 2, or any of the other Figures.
Instead, the technical solutions may be implemented                via many other system
implementations, architectures, and connectivities. For example, additional hardware and
software implementations of the architecture, additional logic flows implemented in the
architecture, and additional GUI interfaces defined and delivered by the architecture are
described herein.
[22]       Figure 1 shows network connected entities 100, including the architecture 110,
and (with respect to the architecture 110) both internal data sources 102 and external
data sources 104.      The architecture 110 receives source metadata, e.g., the source
metadata 112, from the data sources, and returns feedback messages, e.g., the feedback

                                             6
message 114, to the data sources via any           number or type of public and private
communication networks, e.g., the communication network 116.
[23]        As described herein, the architecture 110 receives the source metadata, and
on behalf of any given enterprise running any pre-defined workflows, analyzes and
processes the source metadata, builds and maintains a UMR, determines data quality
metrics, scores data quality metrics, builds and maintains data lineage, performs data
lineage scoring, sends feedback to the data sources and provides a holistic view of the
UMR in a graphical user interface (GUI). To that end, the architecture 110 includes
communication interface circuitry 120 that is connect to the data sources 102 and 104,
as well as repository processing circuitry 122, reporting circuitry 124, and display circuitry
126. The architecture 110 performs its analysis of input data directed into pre-defined
workflow on the basis of metadata elements, e.g., the metadata elements 128 and 130,
received from any data source.
[24]        With regard to the obtaining the source metadata, the architecture 110 may
facilitate metadata collection by implementing a vendor agnostic communication layer,
with an exposed application programming interface (API) for import and export of data.
The architecture 110 includes a repository of enrichment algorithms, including data quality
and data lineage generation and analysis to enrich the metadata beyond what is available
via vendor tools. Moreover, a computer based feedback loop may be present as part of
the enrichment algorithms to automatically and dynamically obtain additional metadata
from the data sources as deficiencies in the metadata are identified by the architecture
110.
[25]        Expressed another way, the communication interface circuitry 120 retrieves
source metadata from data sources 102. The data sources 102 provide input data in
various schemas to pre-defined workflows for any given enterprise, and the source
metadata characterizes that input data to create a uniform schema in a universal
metadata repository. The communication interface circuitry 120 provides the source
metadata to the repository processing circuitry 122. In turn, the repository processing
circuitry 122 integrates the source metadata into the schema of the universal metadata
repository. As part of the source metadata integration process, the repository processing
circuitry 122 may identify key data frames within the source metadata from each data
source 102. The key data frames may be stored in the universal metadata repository to

                                              7
be representative of the entirety of the extracted source metadata.         The repository
processing circuitry 122 may also perform data analytics on the input data represented in
the universal metadata repository, and execute a feedback loop responsive to the data
analytics to deliver the feedback messages 114 to the data sources 102 to update and/or
enrich the metadata present in the universal metadata repository.
[26]       The architecture 110 may perform a wide variety of data analytics, including
static data analysis and dynamic data analysis. Static data analysis may include computer
based review and analysis of the normalized metadata information ingested from the data
sources. For example, static data analysis may include analysis of a data lineage schema
or structure, the data sources from which the metadata is extracted, and/or the collected
metadata. In another example, static data analysis may involve comparison of newly
obtain metadata with previously obtained metadata for completeness, trends, omissions
and significant changes. In still another example, static analysis may be an analysis for
gaps or omissions in the normalized metadata obtained from the data sources. The static
data analysis may be performed by the computer based on computer based historical
data    comparison,     rules, relationships,   predetermined  setpoints,   predetermined
thresholds, and/or any other mechanisms or process to identify shortfalls, omissions, or
undesirable variations.
[27]        Dynamic data analysis may involve rules based data analysis, generation of
data metrics and/or analysis of generated data metrics.        As just one example, the
architecture 110 may dynamically determine a data quality metric for the input data based
on the source metadata. Data quality metrics generated by the architecture 110 may
include 1)computer based data quality source completeness analysis, 2)computer based
data accuracy analysis, 3)computer based data precision analysis, 4)computer based
timeliness analysis, and 5)computer based reasonableness analysis may be performed.
In addition, duplication, veracity/integrity, data coverage, data variation, and other
parameter analysis may be included in the computer based accuracy analysis.
[28]       Such computer based dynamic analysis may be based on predetermined
values, predetermined thresholds, comparison with third party information, comparison
with collateral information, consideration of service level agreements, historical data
comparison or any other analysis capable of identifying possible issues. For example,
data accuracy, precision, and veracity/precision analysis may be based on data source

                                               8
analysis, attribute analysis and the like. Timeliness analysis may be involve a time based
analysis in which data from a certain time period or time value is compared, contrasted
and otherwise analyzed with respect to data from another certain time period or time
value. Reasonableness, duplication, data coverage and data variation analysis may be
based on historical data analysis, corresponding data analysis, predetermined values or
thresholds and other such considerations. Such computer based analysis may be rules
based, based on statistical analysis, based on modeling, based on machine learning,
based on artificial intelligence (AI), based on third party information, and/or based on any
other parameters or conditions. Also, consideration and comparison of technical context
and business context information, such as via an incidence graph may also be included
as part of the dynamic data analysis.
[29]        As a result of the dynamic data analysis, a feedback message 114 may specify
a data quality alert responsive to the data quality metric, with the data quality alert
responsive to a data quality rule executed on the data quality metric (e.g., 'send an alert
when the last data value does not fit the current trend'). In another example, a gap in
metadata may be identified and included in a feedback message 114.
[30]        The architecture 110 may also provide various reporting using the reporting
circuitry 124 based on the data analytics performed.        Reporting may be in the form of
exportable files, viewable graphs, lists, tables and the like, and/or generation of databases
or other data repositories.    Reporting may be via the user interface circuitry 126.
[31]        The user interface circuitry 126 may include one or more graphical user
interfaces, displays, touch sensitive displays, voice or facial recognition inputs, buttons,
switches, speakers, printers, and other peripheral elements or devices that allow human
sensory perception of system operation. Additional examples include microphones, video
and still image cameras, and any other input output devices. The user interface circuitry
126 may include hardware displays such as liquid crystal displays (LCD), Light Emitting
Diode (LED) displays or any other form of image rendering hardware. In addition or
alternatively, the user interface circuitry 126 may include transmission and/or image
rendering hardware to enable image rendering and display on any hardware device or
system whether local or remote from the architecture. For example, the user interface
circuitry 126 may support web based interaction and display via a browser or other form
of communication interface.

                                              9
[32]        The user interface circuitry 126 may also provide sensory perception to a user
of operation, functionality and control of the architecture 110.      For example, the user
interface circuitry 126 may include the capability to provide a holistic view of the extracted
source metadata represented in the universal metadata repository on a user interface,
such as a display. The holistic view may be provided based on the key data frames. In
an example, the holistic view may be depicted in an incidence schema or graph user
interface view depicting relational aspects of the metadata represented in the universal
metadata repository in a technical context.       In addition, a business context may be
extrapolated from the technical context. For example, the incidence schema view may
illustrate relation of the key data frames to the data sources and to various attributes of
the key data frames.         In addition, relationships and context such as reference,
relatedness, inheritance and hierarchy may be identified between data sources, technical
context of the metadata, and business focus of a particular business or industry. For
example, in an incidence graph user interface, attributes of the key data frames in the
technical context may be depicted in a relationship, and/or in context to, nodes in a
business context that is specific to a particular business or industry segment.           The
technical context may also be used in relationships to more than one business or industry
by re-focusing extrapolation of the technical context into additional business context
scenarios.
[33]        As another example, the static data analytics may include creating or updating
a data lineage structure for the input data. The data lineage structure captures the
lifecycle of input data and its consumption, which may be implemented and described in
many different ways. In one respect the data lineage structure provides an incidence
schema, incidence graph, or line of descent map, of the input data. The incidence graph
may include lineage data fields that specify any combination of the following, as just a
few examples: who affected the input data, what affected the input data, where the input
data was affected, when the input data was affected, why the input data was affected,
and how the input data was affected. In the case of data lineage, the feedback message
may specify or include a data lineage alert responsive to the data lineage structure, with
the data lineage alert responsive to a data lineage rule executed on the incidence
schema, or line of descent map (e.g., 'send an alert when user X has modified the input
data.').

                                               10
[34]         Figure 2 shows another example implementation 200 of the architecture 110.
The example implementation 200 includes communication interfaces 202 of the
communication interface circuitry 120; system circuitry 204 of the repository processing
circuitry 122; input/output (I/O) interfaces 206 and display circuitry 208 of the user
interface circuitry 126. The display circuitry 208 may generate machine interfaces 210
locally or for remote display, such as in a web browser running on a local or remote
machine. The machine interfaces 210 and the 1/O interfaces 206 may include GUIs, touch
sensitive displays, voice or facial recognition inputs, buttons, switches, speakers and any
other user interface elements.
[35]        The communication interfaces 202 may include wireless transmitters and
receivers ("transceivers") 212 and any antennas 214 used by the transmit and receive
circuitry of the transceivers 212. The transceivers 212 and antennas 214 may support
WiFi network communications, for instance, under any version of IEEE 802.11, e.g.,
802.11b, g, n, or ac. The communication interfaces 202 may also include physical
transceivers 216. The physical transceivers 216 may provide physical layer interfaces for
any of a wide range of communication protocols, such as any type of Ethernet, data over
cable    service    interface specification   (DOCSIS),     digital subscriber  line  (DSL),
Synchronous Optical Network (SONET), or other protocol.
[36]        The system circuitry 204 may include hardware, software, firmware, or other
circuitry in any combination. The system circuitry 204 may be implemented, for example,
with one or more systems on a chip (SoC), application specific integrated circuits (ASIC),
microprocessors, discrete analog and digital circuits, and other circuitry. The system
circuitry 204 is part of the implementation of any desired functionality in the architecture
110.     For example, the system circuitry 204 may include one or more instruction
processors 218 and memories 220. The memory 220 stores, for example, control
instructions 222 and an operating system 224. In one implementation, the processor 218
executes the control instructions 222 and the operating system 224 to carry out any
desired functionality for the architecture 110. The control parameters 226 provide and
specify configuration and operating options for the control instructions 222, operating
system 224, and other functionality of the architecture.
[37]        The architecture 110 may also include the enterprise data stores 250. The
enterprise data stores 250 may represent any number of data sources 104 and may

                                               11
include a UMR 254, or any other enterprise data. The enterprise data stores 250 may be
hosted on volume storage devices, e.g., hard disk drives (HDDs) and solid state disk
drives (SDDs) and may adhere to a very wide range of data structures and data types.
As examples, the data structures may include: SQL, no-SQL, object-oriented, and
relational databases; unordered and ordered storage mechanisms; structured files; hash
buckets; trees; and other structures. The data sources 104 may provide any type of input
data to any number and type of enterprise workflows 236 defined within the enterprise.
As just a few examples, the enterprise workflows 236 may include: human resources (HR)
workflows that govern HR procedures such as hiring, reviews, and firing; banking
workflows that create new client accounts, approve loans, or issue mortgages;
manufacturing workflows that execute quality assurance procedures, process failure
reports, and execute preventative maintenance; and customer service workflows that
assign tasks to agents, processing claims, and resolve customer incident reports. Such
enterprise workflows 236 may form the basis for the business context that is extrapolated
from the technical context of the metadata as part of the holistic view of the universal
metadata repository.
[38]        All of the workflows are driven by input data. The data sources 102 and 104
supply the input data to drive the workflows, and the source metadata characterizes the
input data. Example input data includes, as just a few examples: database tables,
columns, and fields; keyboard and mouse input; documents; graphs; metrics; files, such
as Word, Excel, PowerPoint, PDF, Visio, CAD, Prezi files; application data objects, e.g.,
calendar entries, task lists, and email file folders; and other data types. Other examples
of input data include attributes of the metadata such as, time stamps, data source ID,
extraction tool used, and any other information that may be useful in characterizing the
metadata in the holistic view.
[39]        The control instructions 222 include repository processing logic 230, data
analytics logic 232, and machine interface generation logic 234. The repository
processing logic 230 integrates source metadata into the UMR 254, and provides closed
loop feedback to the data sources responsive to data analyses driven by the UMR 254.
The data analytics logic 232 performs the data analyses, including determining data
quality metrics, and building and maintaining the data lineage structure. The machine
interface generation logic 234 may create and deliver a holistic view such as an incidence
schema in the form of a linked interactive set of GUIs that facilitate interaction within the

                                              12
architecture 110. The control instructions 222 may also, for example, be executed to
identify workflows for analysis, determine data sources for those workflows, obtain source
metadata from the data sources, obtain selections of data analyses to run, define closed
loop feedback rules, identify relations and inheritance among the source metadata, and
allow operators to set configuration and preference parameters for the overall operation
of the architecture 110.
[40]        Among other aspects, the enterprise data stores 104, repository processing
logic 230, data analytics logic 232, machine interface generation logic 240 improve the
functioning of the underlying computer hardware itself. That is, these features (among
others described below) are specific improvements in the way that the underlying
computer system operates. The improvements facilitate the generation of a universal
holistic view of metadata across disparate data sources by integrating various different
schemas within which the metadata is transformed to a single universal schema. Due to
the universal schema present in the universal metadata repository, improvements in, for
example, discovery of missing data (gap detection), and/or enrichment of the metadata
by execution of data analytics across disparate data sources, may be performed to
provide, among other things, closed-loop feedback that helps improve the execution of
any defined workflow in the enterprise. The improved functioning of the underlying
computer hardware       itself achieves further technical benefits. For example, the
architecture 110 automatically performs the complex processing needed to improve
workflow performance, and thereby reduces manual intervention and reduces the
possibility for human error. Still further, the architecture 110 facilitates a reduction in
resource expenditure, including reduced storage volume accesses and processor-driven
analytics due to, for example, data management using key data frames.             Also, the
architecture 110 operates with the key data frames in a distributed network environment
to efficiently avoid duplicative data storage and large data transmission events among
data sources distributed throughout a communication            network.    In addition, the
architecture 110 may reduce or eliminates cumbersome and inexact manual tuning and
analysis of the data sources and workflows, in favor of the centralized uniform schema
metadata repository architecture stored in a distributed data storage system.
[41]        Figure 3 shows an example of logic 300 that the architecture 110 may
implement for analyzing data quality, e.g., as part of the data analytics logic 232. The
architecture 110 defines an enterprise rule definition framework (302), in which the

                                               13
architecture 110 creates enterprise rules (304) for its data. The architecture 110 maps
enterprise rules to data quality rules (306). The data quality rules define quality metrics
for the input data to the workflows. The enterprise rules may be specific to a business or
industry.
[42]       The architecture 110 executes data profilers or data mappers to run profile
scans on the data sources (308) to obtain the dataset of source metadata, such as
technical metadata objects. The data profilers may be metadata scraping tools such as,
for example, ATTIVIO, EMCIEN, CLOUDERA NAVIGATOR, SINEQUA or UNIFI, which
include functionality to extract metadata from data sources. The scan results are parsed
for data elements such as codes and scripts, and the scan profiles are captured (e.g.
stored) in the UMR 254 (310). Next, the architecture 110 performs dynamic data analysis
by executing the data quality rules, e.g., by traversing the structure of the UMR 254 and
applying each data quality rule to the applicable field, table, column or other data element
(312). As part of execution of the data quality rules, the architecture may dynamically
perform data quality scoring (314) to obtain data quality metrics. The data quality scores
generated by the data quality scoring may be stored as part of the data quality metrics in
the UMR 224 in association with the respective data. Once all the data quality rules are
applied and the data quality scoring is complete (316), the architecture 110 may conduct
computer based acceptance testing (318). Acceptance testing may include issuing, as
appropriate, feedback messages to the data sources. Acceptance testing may include
consideration of data quality metrics and data lineage scores, as well as consideration of
relations, inheritance, reference or any other data reconciliation, authentication and
completeness parameters.        Otherwise, if there are more, different, or new data quality
rules to apply, the architecture 110 re-runs the profile scans using the same or different
mappers to continue to test the data quality (320). In an example, the data quality scores
may be used in the acceptance testing and to determine if more, different, or new data
quality rules should be applied. The architecture 110 may alternatively, or in addition,
conduct acceptance testing of the workflow, or take other actions once the scan profiles
are parsed.
[43]        Figure 4 shows an example of logic 400 that the architecture may implement
for handling data lineage. The architecture 110 defines data lineage integration points in
a business glossary (402) as key data frames and configures data lineage views in the
business glossary (404) by integration of the technical context into the business context.

                                               14
The business glossary may be descriptive of the business related data used in one or
more enterprises or organizations and may include business metadata. The business
glossary may be maintained and provided with a data governance platform, such as
COLLIBRA.
[44]        For unconfirmed relationships within the metadata in the universal metadata
repository, the architecture 110 may configure lineage scanners, or mappers, to proceed
with proposed relationships (406) based on the metadata, attributes and related
information, and use a review tool to confirm the relationships to verify the dataflow (408).
The lineage scanners may tools such as, for example, ALATION and CLOUDERA
NAVIGATOR. The architecture 110 tags confirmed relationships in the UMR 254 (410).
For confirmed relationships, the architecture 110 configures the lineage scanners to track
the known lineage (408). In either case, the architecture 110 programmatically stores the
data lineage in the UMR 254 (410).
[45]        The architecture 110 determines whether there are any exceptions (412), and
if so, those exceptions are reviewed and the UMR 254 is updates to resolve the
exceptions (414). When there are no exceptions, the architecture 110 conducts
acceptance testing (416). In any case, the architecture 110 may selectively expand the
data lineage, e.g., for troubleshooting purposes (418). When all the data is accounted for
(420), the architecture 110 may conclude troubleshooting and mark the issue as resolved
(422).
[46]        As mentioned above, the architecture 110 performs discovery of additional data
via, e.g., similarity detection. Figure 5 shows an example of logic 500 that the architecture
110 may implement for performing data discovery. The architecture 110 defines a data
discovery scanner integration point in a business glossary (502), and configures data
discovery scanners to infer similarity (504), using, e.g., pre-defined similarity rulesets. The
architecture 110 runs data scanners on the data sources (506) and determine
relationships between data sets based on the inferred similarities, which are
recommended          to  data    stewards    (508).  The    determined     relationships     are
programmatically stored in the UMR 254 (510).
[47]        The determined relationships may also be parsed for duplicates as part of the
quality analysis (512). Where there are duplicates in the relationships, a snapshot of a
dataset of source metadata from a data source in which the duplicates exist in relation to

                                              15
other datasets of source metadata may be generated to identify preferred data sources
and a route of the relationships by walking through other use cases and the dataset (514).
The architecture 110 may sample the data set of identified preferred data sources to
determine if the data in the preferred data set is ok (516). If the data in the data set of
the identified preferred data source is ok, access to the preferred data source may be
requested (518), and the architecture 110 checks for whether the recommended
relationships meets pre-defined acceptability criteria (520). If the relationship to the
identified preferred data source is not acceptable, the architecture 110 may expand the
search for relationships to other data sets, by, for example, identifying similar data in other
data sets, or by identifying data sets that are connected by data flow to the identified
preferred data source (522).
[48]        If the recommended relationships are not acceptable, then the architecture 110
modifies or drops the recommended relationships and re-runs the data scanners (524).
When the recommended relationships are accepted (526), the architecture 110 may save
those relationships, and continue to review the data sources into the future for new data
relationships (528).
[49]        The architecture 110 addresses the technical challenges with managing data
sources and summarizing their content. Many of these challenges arise due to the wide
range of data sources, varying interfaces, varying accessibility standards, disparate data
sources both internal and external to the enterprise, and/or variations in schemas of the
extracted content. The architecture 100 provides a unified schema that provides a view
of metadata, data lineage, and data quality for a system or set of systems, leading to
much improved ability to track and maintain the information, while reducing errors. The
architecture 100 understands the dichotomy of documents, data sources, source clusters,
and source composition and defines a holistic model of metadata describing system state.
[50]        The architecture 100 also monitors and improves data quality. In that regard,
the architecture 100 may define data quality metrics in terms of completeness, accuracy,
precision, timeliness, reasonableness, or other factors. Additional data quality metrics
include whether there is data duplication, the veracity/integrity of the data, and the
coverage of the data. With regard to data lineage, the architecture 110 tracks aspects of
data lineage including the 'who', 'what', 'when', 'where', 'why', and 'how' characteristics of
the data. The data lineage may be discrete, probabilistic or both.

                                               16
[51]        Figure 6 shows an example of logic 600 that the architecture 110 may
implement for performing mapping of business metadata to technical metadata objects.
Business context descriptive of an organization may be included in business metadata,
such as data usage and ownership, stored in a business glossary. The architecture 110
executes data profilers or data mappers to run profile scans on the data sources to obtain
a profile of respective input data in the form of a dataset of source metadata, such as
technical metadata objects (602). The technical metadata objects may be mapped to
business terms included in the business glossary (604) using, for example, data analytics
and automated inferences. In an example, data analytics may be performed by a scanner
tool such as CAMBRIDGE SEMANTICS to create computer based inferences that may
be used to map business terms to technical metadata objects by, for example, discovering
semantic similarities and syntactic similarities between the business terms and selected
technical metadata objects. The architecture may run a profile scan of the data source
to obtain a recommendation for business metadata and similarities, such as semantic
similarities and syntactic similarities (606). The technical metadata objects may be
labeled with the mapping to the business metadata (608).
[52]        The architecture 110 may determine the accuracy of the mapping, such as
using quality control functions (610).      If the mapping is not accurate, such as not
exceeding a predetermined threshold of accuracy, the architecture 110 may re-assess
the mappings (614) and then accept and label the new recommendations (608). If the
mapping is accurate, the architecture may determine if a predetermined amount of data
is labeled with mappings (616) If not, a manual process may be initiated by the
architecture 110 to examine and assess the data (618). Otherwise, the process may end.
[53]        Figure 7 is a block diagram illustrating an example of the functionality of the
architecture 110. The architecture 110 may include a front end layer 702, an integration
layer 704, a back end layer 706, a data processing circuitry 708 and a data storage
circuitry 710. In other examples, additional or fewer layers may be included to depict the
described functionality.    The front end layer may include a dashboard 714 for user
interaction with the architecture 110 and an administrative user interface 716 to manage
and maintain the architecture 110.
[54]        The integration layer 704 of the architecture 110 may be a form of middleware
providing an interface between the front end layer 702 and the back end layer 706. The

                                              17
middleware     may    operate   as  a   stateless, client-server, cacheable    web-based
communication protocol for networking. In an example implementation, the middleware
may include an application program interface (API), such as a RESTful API.
[55]       The back end layer 706 of the architecture 110 may be included in the
repository processing circuitry 122 (Figure 1). The back end layer 706 may perform
computer implemented metadata collection and normalization across a data supply chain
in a number of distinct phases, which may be described as selection, ingestion, data
management, and data preparation. In addition, the architecture 110 may use the back
end layer 706 to perform computer implemented conflict resolution during distinct phases
of quality and reconciliation, and actionable management.
[56]       The selection phase may be performed with a universal metadata selection
circuitry 720. The universal metadata selection circuitry 720 may consume metadata
information from the data sources, and determine where to get additional metadata
information from among the various available data sources. Thus, the universal metadata
selection circuitry 720 may consume workflow information or job tasks, from vendor
solutions and resolve the data sources of interest. In addition, the universal metadata
selection circuitry 720 may perform communication with the different data sources, such
as by enabling querying of the data sources and/or the various profiling tools or data
mappers used to scrape data from the different data sources.          Functionality of the
universal metadata selection circuitry 720 may include source profiling, parsing, archiving
and retention. The universal metadata selection circuitry 720 may perform exploration of
existing data sources resulting in simplified onboarding of data sources. Onboarding of
data sources may include cataloging and indexing trusted data sources, as well as
onboarding new data sources and configure transformation rules for metadata extracted
from such new data sources.
[57]       The ingestion phase may be performed by a metadata ingestion circuitry 122.
The metadata ingestion circuitry 122 may normalize different metadata schemas from the
data sources into a target format and object schema that is common across the universal
metadata repository. For example, the metadata ingestion circuitry 122 may provide
normalization of metadata through a series of connectors to an ingestible formation, such
from a non JSON data to JSON data across the different schemas.

                                               18
[58]       Since the format of the raw metadata in the different schemas may vary
significantly, the metadata ingestion circuitry 122 may reconcile the various disparate
formats into a common schema format in the universal metadata repository. Further,
extracted source data may be archive loaded for auditability by the metadata ingestion
circuitry 122.
[59]       The back end layer 706 may also include a metadata conflict resolution circuitry
724 and a metadata schema enforcement circuitry 726. The metadata conflict resolution
circuitry 724 may perform metadata object matching and conflict resolution among data
from different data sources. Accordingly, the metadata conflict resolution circuitry 724
may resolve any duplicated information by identification and deletion of repeated
metadata within the universal metadata repository once the metadata from the different
data sources has been normalized and duplication can be recognized.               Thus, the
metadata conflict resolution circuitry 724 may "clean" the data received in the universal
metadata repository.
[60]       The metadata       schema     enforcement circuitry 726 may provide/handle
harmonization of technical metadata across diverse metadata stores included in a data
storage layer of the architecture 110 and/or data sources. For example, the metadata
schema enforcement circuitry 726 may maintain metadata and schema alignment and
perform computational work, such as last minute normalization, canonization check/data
resolution and the like. In addition, the metadata schema enforcement circuitry 726 may
perform storage and processing of data in structured and un-structured data formats in a
UMR data store 738 included in the data storage layer of the architecture 110. Also, the
metadata schema enforcement circuitry 726 may catalog the data sources and perform
mapping of the origin of the metadata within the attributes of the metadata. Also, the
metadata schema enforcement circuitry 726 may detect specific datatypes, assign
metadata tags, and route the metadata to predetermined queues resulting in accelerated
data management        with type-based       patterns. Routing of the metadata      to the
predetermined queues may include routing the key data frames and mapping of the
destination in which the metadata is stored by including such information in attributes
associated with the metadata.
[61]       The metadata analytics circuitry 728 represents a repository of algorithms, links
to algorithms, and links to tools that perform analytical operations on the UMR and source

                                               19
data to provide a more holistic view of the underlying data.       The metadata analytics
circuitry 728 may include a descriptive module 730 and a predictive module 732 to
perform data quality metric analysis and data lineage development and analysis. Based
on the data quality metrics analysis and the data lineage analysis, the metadata analytics
circuitry 728 may identify key data frames among the dataset of source metadata from a
data source.
[62]        The key data frames may be representative of a larger body of metadata such
that the key data frames provided a sampled version of the metadata.       In other words,
instead of the architecture 110 duplicative storing the entirety of the metadata received
from a data source, only the key data frames are stored. The key data frames may include
attributes that point to the location (e.g. the data source) of the metadata being
represented by a respective key data frame.        Using the key data frames, data quality
metrics and data lineage measurements may be developed to provide a holistic view of
the entirety of the metadata represented in the universal metadata repository.
[63]         The metadata analytics circuitry 728 may mine the normalized data from the
various data sources for data probabilistic lineage metadata. In addition, the metadata
analytics circuitry 728 may leverage the normalized data that has been quality reviewed
through the metadata conflict resolution circuitry 724 and the metadata schema
enforcement circuitry 726. Through analysis of the collected and normalized metadata,
the data quality metrics and the probabilistic lineage metadata, the key data frames may
be identified in the dataset of source metadata from each respective data source.
[64]        The metadata       analytics circuitry 728 may also review the metadata
represented in the universal metadata repository for gaps or missing parts of the
metadata. Such gaps may be identified from computer based performance of data quality
and data lineage using the descriptive module 730 and the predictive module 732. When
gaps in the metadata are discovered, the metadata analytics circuitry 728 may perform
enrichment of the universal metadata repository by identifying a data source capable of
at least partially filling the gap, extracting metadata information, and normalizing such
metadata in order to add the newly extracted metadata to the universal metadata
repository.
[65]        The event manager 736 may determines what jobs to schedule based on
predefined and curated rules of interest. The event manager 736 may detect changes

                                               20
and acts as a scheduler for processing future tasks based on events of interest. The
event manager 736 may monitor for triggering events using rules based logic. In addition,
the event manager 736 may perform management of business rules to assign metadata
tags and route loaded source data. Actionable management by the event manager 736
may include centralize management of data use and rules to provide role based user
access and permissions, and centralized management of business rules and workflows.
[66]        Accordingly, the architecture 110 may be used to integrate all data profiles and
similarity profiles across the entire platform. This approach also includes a feedback loop
that enforces the business rules and re-runs the scans automatically to update the
universal metadata repository. The architecture 110 may apply the rules defined on
specific columns or fields. The event manager 736 may check to ensure the rules are
applied and specifies any additional rules using a check rules match function. The
architecture 110 may re-run the profiles and similarity scans to update the data quality
metrics as per the newly applied rules.
[67]        Figure 8 is a block diagram of an example of logic layers included within the
architecture 110.     The various circuitry or engines present in the back end 706 may
operate within these logic layers to perform the described functionality. The architecture
110 may include a data flow layer 802, a data source layer 804, a data lineage layer 806,
and a data field layer 808. In other examples, fewer or greater numbers of layers may be
used to illustrate the functionality described herein.
[68]        With reference to Figures 7 and 8, the universal metadata selection circuitry
720 may operate in the data flow layer 802 to capture transaction data 816 from data
sources 818 in the data source layer 804. The transaction data 816 may also be referred
to as a dataset of source metadata from a data source. Capture of transaction flow data
816 may be performed with a tool, such as CLOUDERA NAVIGATOR. The transactions
816 are represented as a graphical flow as data moves through system (can be used to
show prescriptive lineage for known processes).          The universal metadata selection
circuitry 720 may also map transaction source data sources and transaction destinations
within the dataflow layer 802.
[69]        The metadata ingestion circuitry 722 may operate in the data source layer 804.
The metadata ingestion circuitry 722 may also map transactions to the data sources 818
(push and pull) and catalog all of the data sources 818 in the data source layer 804. Data

                                               21
sources 818 may be discovered from the transaction/process flow graph by the metadata
ingestion circuitry 722 in the data source layer 804. Also, metadata information may be
represented in the data source layer 804 to a "table" or "document" level of data
granularity.
[70]         Within the data lineage layer 806, the metadata analytics circuitry 728 may
determine a data lineage timeline 820 that consists of key data frames 822. Using the key
data frames 822, the architecture 110 may track lineage at key points in time. In addition,
the architecture 110 may provide historic, prescriptive, and probabilistic lineage. The key
data frames 822 may be pointers to profiles containing the dataset of the source metadata
of each respective data source 818. In an example, the data set of source metadata from
each data source (e.g. transaction) may be represented with one key data frame.
However, in other examples, a data set may be represented by multiple key data frames
822. The key data frames 822 are updated by time, event, signification change or other
operational attributes, which are associated with the respective key data frames 822. In
an example, updates may be constrained by: desired granularity, space, or triggers from
the event management 736.
[71]         In Figure 8, a timeline flow of key data frames 822 are depicted by the data
lineage timeline 820. The depicted data lineage time line 820 illustrates a flow where
each key data frame 822 points to at least one data profile, to indicate timing of when a
dataset of source metadata was obtained from a respective data source 818. The lineage
timeline 820 may be created by, for example, time sampling to create a data profile at
consistent predetermined time intervals. Alternatively, or in addition, the lineage timeline
820 may be based on an event being triggered. In the event trigger scenario the data
profile transaction may be extracted based upon a rule (e.g. data upload, etc.) triggered
by the event manager 706. Alternatively, or in addition, the lineage timeline 820 may be
generated based on, for example, change monitoring. For example, data profiling may
occur when there is a significant change in data from a previous profile time (e.g. value
drift, significant data upload, etc.) Occurrence of a significant change may be based on
a predetermined set point or threshold which is compared at the respective data source
818 to previously received metadata parameters.          The comparison may occur at a
predetermined time, or frequency, or in response to an event.

                                                22
[72]        The data field layer 808 may include field information within data source fields
828 of the key data frames 822. The metadata analytics circuitry 728 may operate in the
data field layer 808 to generate the data source fields 828 for the key data fields 822. The
data source fields 828 may include information such as: i. What fields are composed of
and inter database relationships, ii. Field composition metrics (e.g. distribution, data
types, and other attributes related to generation of a respective key data field) and/or iii.
Field    data     quality   metrics     such   as    value   composition,   value  coverage,
heterogeneity/distinctness and the like. The data source fields 828 may be generated
with a predetermined structure. In an example, each of the data source fields 828 may
be generated in a basic JSON structure such as:
                                                 {
                                              Profile:
                                             Metadata:
                                         ColumnStatistics:
                                   DataQuality: { Fields, Rules}
                                                 }
[73]        The metadata analytics circuitry 728 may also generate a data field
composition in the form of a graph schema 832 of the lineage data to model the relational
composition of the metadata represented by the key data frames 822. The relational
composition may be abstractly modeled with an object oriented approach to provide a
visual illustration of the traits or aspects of the data sources, metadata, key data frames
and the operational aspects of metadata collection and the relationships therebetween.
In addition, time stamping, logic rules, attributes, definitions and the like may be used for
inferencing of relatedness of the technical context to the business context. The depiction
of the relational composition of the graph schema 832 may be based on data field
statistics 834 and allow the architecture to traverse the graph schema 832 from top to
bottom.
[74]        Referring again to Figure 7, the data processing circuitry 708 may perform real
time processing of data.       In addition to handling payload passing, the data processing

                                              23
circuitry 708 also defines the data workflow of the entire UMR system in that it handles
all job executions and the passing of data between circuitry, jobs, engines, and modules.
[75]       The data storage circuitry 710 provides an interface to the universal metadata
repository, which is a UMR data store 738 included in the architecture 110, which includes
both a graph store 740 and a document store 742. The interfacing with the document
store 742 may include interface with, for example, HADOOP, cloud storage, and NoSQL
storage facilities, such as MONGO.      Interfacing with the graph store 740 may include
interfacing with, for example, NEO4i.
[76]       The graph store 740 holds information with regard to the relationship linkages
between pieces of data that is ingested and the document store 742 contains the detailed
information of data. The graph store 740 itself is included of a technical context and a
business context which are two graphs that are loosely connected. The technical graph
contains all information and relationships with regard to data, infrastructure, and
transactions that occur on the data. The business context graph contains concepts, rules,
reports, etc. that are used to understand and make business decisions. The two graphs
are separated to serve the purpose of a strong technical underpinning where traversal is
well known and a business graph that is specific to a use case, domain, client, or
industry. The business graph serves as a knowledge piece that is exportable and
reusable.    For example, key aspects of a business graph may reused for differing
domains, businesses, industries and the like. In addition, the business graph may be
exportable and reusable by being bootstrapped with existing ontologies to kick start an
engagement       of   the  architecture   110    with  a   different business   entity  or
industry. Conversely the business graph may be removed without effecting the
underlying infrastructure representation in the technical manifestation (e.g. technical
context) of the collected metadata.
[77]       Figure 9 is an example of a incidence graph schema 900 for the architecture
110.    The incidence graph schema may represent the UMR by consolidating and
presenting a shared view of all metadata across data sources, data types, data stores,
and application uses of the data. The incidence graph schema 900 includes an example
of a technical context graph 902 and a business context graph 904 which can depict
normalized metadata from different data sources and information related thereto. The
technical context graph 902 may depict Information about the applications, tools, and

                                              24
systems supporting a data management solution. The business context graph 904 may
depict Information that describes the process, context and meaning about the data. The
business context graph depiction may place emphasis on significance of data from a
business point of view.
[78]        In Figure 9, the incidence graphs visually depict inheritance 906 as
interconnecting dot-dash-dot lines, relations 908 as interconnecting solid lines, and
reference 910 as dotted lines. The technical context graph 902 and the business context
graph 904 may include representations of time stamps (A), nodes (B), Tools (C),
Containers (D), Operation (E), Field (F), Data Source (G), Key Data Frame (H), Profile
(I), Collection (J), Attribute (K), Data Rule (L), Definition (M), Role (N), User (0), and
Report (P). In other examples, additional or fewer representations may be included in
the incidence graph schema 900.
[79]        In Figure 9, inheritance and relationships are only illustrated under one
example, and one link for brevity. In addition, all vertices are of type Node (B) and inherit
all the properties. Further, the user (0) inherits the Role (N), and key data frames inherit
Timestamps (A). In general, the inheritance 906 included in the incidence graph schema
900 may indicate where various attributes and/or information is provided from (origin or
source). The incidence graph schema 900 also illustrates relations 908, such as "is a,"
"derived from," "instance of," and "consists of."
[80]        For example, a tool (C), such as EMCIEM or CLOUDERA NAVIGATOR MCM,
may be represented and added data such as a timestamp (A) may be a relation 908
shown as an "instance of" the tool (C). In addition, the tool (C) may have one or more
relations 908 to containers (D) which "is a" container of the tool, and an operation (E),
which "is a" operation of the tool. The container (D) and the operation (E) may include
relations 908 to fields (F) which "is a" field of the respective container (D) and the
operation (E), and may be identified with a relation 908 to other fields (F) which are an
"instance of" another field (F). In another example, a Collection (J), such as a table, may
have a relation indicating the table "consists of" a number of different attributes (K), some
of which may have a relation of being "derived from" a data rule (L).
[81]        In this way, the incidence graph may be used in different analysis scenarios to
present information that would not otherwise be available due to the normalization of
metadata received from different data sources, and due to the inheritance 906, relation

                                               25
908 and reference 910 represented therein. For example, the graph schema may be
used to search for data received, for example, from a certain tool (C), and this same type
of framework may be used to develop data lineage scores. For example, if the meta data
includes a combination of manually entered data and tool obtained data, a data lineage
score may be determined.        The data lineage score may be based on "derived from"
relations 908. For example, if the incidence graph included ten nodes (B), and nine out
of ten of the nodes (B) have a derived from link, than the data lineage score would be 90.
In another example, in a search for reliability of relationships between collections (J) of
key data frames (H), a number of attributes (K) having a relation 908 of "instance of' may
be used to determine a data lineage score. Thus, two collections (J) with a large number
of attributes that are "instances of" each other will have a higher data lineage score.
[82]        The reference 910 may indicate that elements of one of the technical context
graph or the business context graph is used in elements of the other of the technical
context graph or the business context graph. The reference 910 may be created by
providing reference to information that is technical context information or business context
information. For example, as illustrated in Figure 9 the collection (J) in the technical
context graph 902 may include an indication that an origin of information included therein
is an attribute (K) included in the business context graph 904.
[83]        Figure 10 is an example depicting a lineage data structure 1000. The lineage
data structure 1000 illustrates different collections 1002 that depict relations 908 between
different fields 1004. Also illustrated are calculators 1006 to indicate whether the relations
908 between the fields include a computer based transformation, calculation or
aggregation. In addition, illustrated are transformers 1008, which are representative of
predetermined constants, formulas or mathematical functions.
[84]        Figure 11 is an operational flow diagram illustrating example operation of the
architecture. Referring to Figures 7, 8 and 11, the universal metadata selection circuitry
720 may identify and select data sources 818 to be sources of metadata and provide
transaction flow data 816 (1102). The metadata ingestion circuitry 722 may ingest the
metadata information (1104) and reconcile the data by normalizing the information (1106).
The metadata conflict resolution circuitry 724 may review the normalized information for
conflicting information (1108) using, for example, machine learning and artificial
intelligence (AI). The metadata conflict resolution circuitry 724 may also catalog all of the

                                             26
data sources from which metadata is obtained (1110). User input regarding identification
of additional data sources to add to the catalog may be received (1111), and the operation
may return to selecting metadata sources (1102).         In addition, the metadata conflict
resolution circuitry 724 may map the transactions to the data sources (1112) and map the
transactions to the data destinations (1114) as part of creating information for the lineage
group structure.    The catalog of data sources and the source and destination mapping
may be stored in the universal metadata repository.
[85]        The metadata schema enforcement circuitry 726 may also perform schema
reconciliation by matching mappers to different schemas to determine which pieces of
data bind different schemas together (1116).      Schema reconciliation may also include
mining data sources for probabilistic values and discrete values for completion of lineage
relationships (1118) within the incidence schema. In addition, schema reconciliation may
include mining different data sources for data quality related information (1120).
[86]        The metadata analytics circuitry 728 may identify the key data frames among
the transactions for each data source to establish a timeline data flow (1122). It is then
determined if all the schemas received from the different data sources are properly
identified to allow normalization of the metadata (1126). If not, the metadata analytics
circuitry 728 may choose a different mapper (1128) and return to matching the different
mapper the schema identified as not being properly identified (1112).
[87]        Referring now to Figure 12, if all the schemas are properly identified the
metadata analytics circuitry 728 may generate a timeline flow of the key data frames
(1132). The key data frames may be stored in the graph store and the document store
with time stamps (1134). The data source fields may be associated with the key data
frames (1136) by the metadata analytics circuitry 728. Data field statistics may be stored
in the graph store and document store (1138). Data attributes may also be stored in the
graph store and the document store (1140). The metadata analytics circuitry 728 may
generate the data lineage structure using the graph store and the document store (1142).
The metadata analytics circuitry 728 may leverage the descriptive module 730 and the
predictive module 732 to perform static data analysis (1146) of the normalized metadata
across the different data sources, such as lineage data structure analysis and scoring.
Based on the static analysis, the metadata analytics circuitry 728 may identify gaps in the
normalized meta data (1148). If there are gaps in the metadata, the metadata analytics

                                                27
circuitry 728 may locate a data source(s) that can fill the gap (1150).       The metadata
analytics circuitry 728 may select the metadata source(s) (1152). Metadata information
may be extracted from the selected metadata data source(s) (1154) and the operation
may return to add the selected metadata sources to the catalog (1110).
[88]        If no gaps in the data are identified, the metadata analytics circuitry 728 may
perform dynamic data analysis (1158), such as determining data quality metrics,
identifying data quality, and performing data quality scoring. The metadata analytics
circuitry 728 may determine if a holistic view of the incidence schema is present (1160).
In not, the metadata analytics circuitry 728 may find source(s) (1150) select metadata
source(s) (1152), extract information (1154), etc. If the holistic view is present, the event
manager 736 may apply predetermined rules and logic that may be triggered on events,
conditions, or happenings (1164).         The event manager 736 may monitor for a quality
threshold (1166).       If a quality threshold has not been crossed, processing by the data
processing circuitry 708 may be performed, data may be displayed (1170), and data may
be stored in the graph store 740 and the document store 742 as appropriate (1172).
[89]        If a quality threshold has been breached, the event manager 736 may generate
an alert (1176), such as a data quality alert or a data lineage alert. The event manager
736 may identify one or more of the data sources that caused the quality threshold
crossing (1178). The event manager may generate a feedback message (1180) and
transmit the feedback message to the identified one or more data sources (1182). The
operation may then return to mapping the transaction sources (1112).
[90]       The architecture 110 may perform computer based selection of data sources
of interest from a myriad of workflows that might be of interest. Data is ingested from
each of the data source(s) that align with a workflow.          The ingested data may be
normalized and stored in a universal metadata repository. If there is data missing (e.g.
gaps) in the normalized information, selection of additional data may be performed. In
addition, the architecture may prepare and enrich the normalized data. For example, data
may be transformed, normalized, and selectively enriched.              Data transformation,
normalization and enrichment may be based on rules, machine learning, logic, artificial
intelligence, modeling and other computer based analysis and functionality.
[91]       Analysis may be performed automatically, such as static analysis and dynamic
analysis to automatically create unified data view(s). Static analysis may include lineage

                                               28
data structure generation, analysis and scoring, for example. Data lineage analysis may
involve information surrounding what the composition of values can be performed. Data
lineage data quality may also be analyzed and automatically enriched using, for example,
artificial intelligence (AI) and/or machine learning (ML). Dynamic analysis may include
data quality metric identification, generation and analysis.       Data may be profiled and
information regarding statistics, coverage, data quality rules may be determined
automatically by the architecture using, for example, artificial intelligence (AI) and/or
machine learning (ML).
[92]         The architecture may also provide living reports that may be generated for all
aspects of the data represented in the universal metadata repository, including quality
and lineage. The universal metadata repository may represent a central location that
holds a holistic view that can be queried and automatically refreshes views, such as data
quality and data lineage views. Within the universal metadata repository, AI/ML may be
employed to resolve data conflicts and verify data integrity. The architecture may use the
dynamic analysis to automatically repeat the process, resulting in measuring and grading
on live data.
[93]         The methods, devices, architectures, processing, circuitry, circuitrys and logic
described above may be implemented in many different ways and in many different
combinations of hardware and software. For example, all or parts of the circuitrys and
other implementations may be circuitry that includes an instruction processor, such as a
Central Processing Unit (CPU), microcontroller, or a microprocessor; or as an Application
Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), Programmable Logic Device (PLD), or Field
Programmable Gate Array (FPGA); or as circuitry that includes discrete logic or other
circuit components, including analog circuit components, digital circuit components or
both; or any combination thereof. The circuitry may include discrete interconnected
hardware components or may be combined on a single integrated circuit die, distributed
among multiple integrated circuit dies, or implemented in a Multiple Chip Module (MCM)
of multiple integrated circuit dies in a common package, as examples.
[94]         Accordingly, the circuitry may store or access instructions for execution, or may
implement its functionality in hardware alone. The instructions may be stored in a tangible
storage medium that is other than a transitory signal, such as a flash memory, a Random
Access Memory (RAM), a Read Only Memory (ROM), an Erasable Programmable Read

                                              29
Only Memory (EPROM); or on a magnetic or optical disc, such as a Compact Disc Read
Only Memory (CDROM), Hard Disk Drive (HDD), or other magnetic or optical disk; or in
or on another machine-readable medium.           A product, such as a computer program
product, may include a storage medium and instructions stored in or on the medium, and
the instructions when executed by the circuitry in a device may cause the device to
implement any of the processing described above or illustrated in the drawings.
[95]        The implementations may be distributed.         For instance, the circuitry may
include multiple distinct system components, such as multiple processors and memories,
and may span multiple distributed processing systems.          Parameters, databases, and
other data structures may be separately stored and managed, may be incorporated into
a single memory or database, may be logically and physically organized in many different
ways, and may be implemented in many different ways.              Example implementations
include linked lists, program variables, hash tables, arrays, records (e.g., database
records), objects, and implicit storage mechanisms.       Instructions may form parts (e.g.,
subroutines or other code sections) of a single program, may form multiple separate
programs, may be distributed across multiple memories and processors, and may be
implemented in many different ways.        Example implementations include stand-alone
programs, and as part of a library, such as a shared library like a Dynamic Link Library
(DLL).    The library, for example, may contain shared data and one or more shared
programs that include instructions that perform any of the processing described above or
illustrated in the drawings, when executed by the circuitry.
[96]        Various implementations have been specifically described. However, many
other implementations are also possible.        For instance, any of the components and
functionality in the architecture 110 may be hosted in virtual machines managed by a
cloud services provider. That is, while some implementations may be completely localized
within a given enterprise, other implementations are completely migrated into the cloud,
or are hybrid implementations with mixed local and cloud implementation.
[97]        Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or step, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.

                                             30
[98]      Any reference to prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgment, or any suggestions that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                               31
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method including:
        in a network connected hardware system:
                identifying a pre-defined workflow for analysis;
               selecting data sources that provide input data to the pre-defined workflow;
               with communication circuitry:
                        retrieving source metadata from the data sources that characterizes
               the input data to the pre-defined workflow;
                        providing the source metadata to repository processing circuitry; and
               with the repository processing circuitry:
                        integrating the source metadata into a universal metadata repository;
                        performing data analytics on the input data driven by the universal
                metadata repository; and
                        executing a feedback loop responsive to the data analytics to deliver
               a source data feedback message to at least one of the data sources.
2.      A method according to claim 1, where:
        performing data analytics includes performing dynamic analysis to determine a
data quality metric for the input data.
3.      A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where:
        the feedback message specifies a data quality alert responsive to the data quality
metric.
4.      A method according to claim 2, where:
        the data quality alert is responsive to a data quality rule executed on the data
quality metric.
5.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, where:
        performing data analytics includes performing static data analysis to update a data
lineage structure for the source data.

                                             32
6.     A method according to claim 5, where:
       the data lineage structure includes a technical context graph and a business
context graph as two separate and independent graphs that each include relation
information and a reference from one of the technical context graph or the business
context graph to the other of the technical context graph or the business context graph.
7.     A method according to claim 6, where:
       at least one of the technical context graph or the business context graph includes
a lineage data field specifying:
              who affected the source data;
              what affected the source data;
              where the source data was affected;
              when the source data was affected;
              why the source data was affected;
               how the source data was affected,
              or any combination thereof.
8.     A method according to any one of claims 5 to 7, where:
       the feedback message specifies a data lineage alert responsive to the data lineage
structure.
9.     A method according to claim 8, where:
       the data lineage alert is responsive to a data lineage rule executed on the at least
one of the technical context graph or the business context graph.
10.    A closed-loop unified metadata processing system including:
       a processor;
       universal metadata circuitry executable by the processor to retrieve source
metadata from each of a plurality of different data sources that provide input data to a
pre-defined workflow, the source metadata characterizing the input data;
       metadata ingestion circuitry executable by the processor to normalize the source
metadata into a universal metadata repository;
       metadata analytics circuitry executable by the processor to perform data analytics
on the input data driven by the universal metadata repository; and

                                              33
        event manager circuitry executable by the processor to execute a feedback loop
responsive to the data analytics to deliver a source data feedback message to at least
one of the data sources.
11.     A system according to claim 10, where:
        each of the data sources provides a dataset of the source metadata, and the
metadata analytics circuitry is further executable by the processor to identify a key data
frame in the source metadata, the key data frame being stored in the universal metadata
repository to represent the dataset.
12.     A system according to either claim 10 or claim 11, where:
        the metadata analytics circuitry is further executable by the processor generate a
time line flow of metadata represented with the key data frame.
13.     A system according to any one of claims 10 to 12, where:
        the universal metadata repository includes a graph store and a document store.
14.     A system according to any one of claims 10 to 13, where:
        the source data feedback message includes one of a data quality message or a
data lineage message.
15.     A system according to any one of claims 10 to 14, further including a metadata
schema enforcement circuitry executable by the processor to identify a mapper tool to
extract metadata from a data source, the mapper tool configured to map the metadata to
a universal schema of the universal metadata repository.
16.     A system according to any one of claims 10 to 15, where the metadata analytics
circuitry is further executable by the processor to generate an incidence graph schema,
the incidence graph schema includes a graph representing a shared consolidated view
of metadata across disparate data sources, data types, data stores, and application uses
of the data.
17.     A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions executable by
a processor, the instructions including:

                                             34
        instructions executable by the processor to select a plurality of data sources that
provide input data to a pre-defined workflow;
        instructions executable by the processor to ingest a dataset of metadata from each
of the data sources, the dataset of metadata characterizing the input data to the pre
defined workflow;
        instructions executable by the processor normalize the ingested dataset of
metadata to a uniform schema;
        instructions executable by the processor to identify a key data frame in each of the
ingested datasets;
        instructions executable by the processor to store the key data frame in a universal
metadata repository in association with a timestamp to be representative of the ingested
data set;
        instructions executable by the processor to generate an incidence schema graph
including a technical context graph and a business context graph based on the universal
metadata repository;
        instructions executable by the processor to perform data quality analysis and data
lineage analysis according to the incidence schema graph; and
        instructions executable by the processor to generate a feedback message for
transmission to one of the plurality of data sources, the feedback message including a
data quality alert or a data lineage alert.
18.     A non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 17, further
including instructions executable with the processor to store the incidence schema graph
in a graph store, and store the key data frames in a data store.
19.     A non-transitory computer readable medium according to either claim 17 or claim
18, wherein the instructions executable by the processor to generate the incidence
schema graph include instructions executable by the processor to generate an indication
that elements of one of the technical context graph or the business context graph is used
in elements of the other of the technical context graph or the business context graph.
20.     A non-transitory computer readable medium according to any one of claims 17 to
19, further including instructions executable by the processor generate a time line flow of
metadata represented with the key data frame.

                                                                                     <removed-apn>                    <removed-date>
    100
External                    Source Metadata    112
                                                                 Closed-loop Universal Metadata Architecture     110
 Data                       Feedback Messages 114
Source                                                   Communication
                 Networks                                                      120
                                                         Interface Circuitry
                                                                                         Enterprise       Enterprise
External                                                 Repository Processing             Data             Data       1 / 12
           116                                                                 122
 Data                                                    Circuitry                        Source           Source
Source
                                                         Reporting Circuitry
                                                                               124    130
                                                         Display Circuitry
External                                                                       126
 Data
Source
                                              Figure 1

                                                                                                              <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                                                    200
                                                             Communication Interfaces          202
                                                              Transmit / Receive Circuitry
                                                                                              212
                                                              WLAN | Satellite | 4G                            Processor(s)              218
    Closed-loop Universal Metadata Architecture
                                                              Antenna(s)                      214              Memory                    220
    Communication                                             Tx / Rx Circuitry               216               Operating System        224
                           120
    Interface Circuitry              Enterprise               Ethernet | SONET / SDH
                                       Data                   DSL | Cable                                       Control Parameters      226
    Repository Processing
                          122         Sources
    Circuitry
                                                             System Circuitry                  204              Control Instructions    222
    Reporting Circuitry
                           124                                                                                   Repository Processing 230
                                                             I/O Interfaces                    206
                                              110
                                                                                                                 Data Analytics        232
                                                             Display Circuitry                 208                                             2 / 12
                                                                                                                 Machine Interface
                                                                                                                                       234
                                                               Machine Interfaces 210                            Generation
               Networks
                                                                Enterprise       Enterprise    Enterprise
External                  External      External                  Data             Data          Data             UMR
 Data                      Data          Data                    Sources          Sources       Sources
Source                    Source        Source
                                                                                     Enterprise Data Stores                250
                                                          Figure 2

                                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>                        <removed-date>
300
                                                                                                                                                                                        UMR
                                                                                                                           Run profile scans on            Programmatically parse
                            Define enterprise rule         Create enterprise               Map enterprise rules
<U+2701>   <U+2702>   <U+2704>       <U+2701>
                                                   302                         304                                  306    data sources using     308      results and capture the    310
                            definition framework.          rules.                          with data quality rules.
                                                                                                                           data profilers.                 profiles in the UMR
                                       Apply data quality                                                                                                              UMR
                                                                                                                                                                                     3 / 12
                                                                                                                                          Execute rule by
                                       rules and re-run profile          No
                                                                320             Applied?              Perform Data                        traversing UMR and
                                       scans to test data                                                                                                             312
                                                                                                      Quality Scoring     314             applying rule to specific
                                       quality.
                                                                                                                                          fields or tables.
                                                                 UMR                  Yes
                                                         224
                                                                       Conduct acceptance
            <U+260E>       <U+2706>   <U+271D>
                                                                       testing with project     318
                                                                       stakeholders.
                                                                                       Figure 3

                                                                                                                                       <removed-apn>                  <removed-date>
400
                                                                                                                                                                              UMR
                            Define data lineage           Configure data               Configure lineage          Confirm relationships              Tag confirmed
    <U+2701>   <U+2702>       <U+2704>       <U+2701>
                            integration point in   402    lineage views in   404       scanners to propose 406    within tool or kick off     408    relationship with      410
                            business glossary.            business glossary.           relationships.             process to verify dataflow.        Scanner+User in UMR.
                                                                                       Configure lineage
                                                                                                                  Programmatically store
                                                                                       recorders to track   408                              410
                                                                                                                  lineage in UMR.
                                                                                       lineage.
                                                                                                                                              UMR
                                                                                                                  Review exceptions and               Yes
                                                                                                                                             414            Exceptions?
                                                                                                                  update UMR accordingly.
                                                                                                                                                                          4 / 12
                                                                                                                                                              No
                                                         Conclude and                           Data                                                Conduct acceptance
                                                                                                                  Expand lineage for
<U+260E>           <U+2706>       <U+271D>
                                                         troubleshooting mark as 422          accounted                                    418      testing with data     416
                                                                                                                  troubleshooting.
                                                         resolved.                               for?                                               stewards.
                                                                                       Figure 4

                                                                                                                                   <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                    500
                                                                                                                                                                        UMR
                            Define data discovery           Configure data               Run data               Recommend relationships
                                                                                                                                            Programmatically store
<U+2701>       <U+2702>       <U+2704>   <U+2701>
                            scanner integration point 502   discovery scanners 504       scanners on 506        between datasets to data                           510
                                                                                                                                      508   recommendations in UMR
                            in business glossary            to infer similarity          data sources           stewards
                             Review relationships           No                                                                                No
                                                                 Relationships                                                                       Are there
                             with data stewards 524
                                                                 acceptable?                                                                        duplicates?
                             and re-run scanners
                                                                   Yes
                                                                                                                                                     Yes
                             Review data sources
                                                                                                                                                                        5 / 12
                                                            Accept
    <U+260E>       <U+2706>           <U+271D>
                             for new/alternate use 528                           526                   Request Access   518
                                                            recommendations.
                             cases
                                                                                                                                              Generate snapshot of
                                                                                                                                              dataset walking
                                                                                                                  Yes                         through the other use
                                                                                                                                              cases and datasets.
                                                                                                                                                                  514
                                                                         Expand original search
                                                                         to other datasets             No
                                                                                                               Ok?
                                                                         through similar data or 522
                                                                         connected by dataflow
                                                                                       Figure 5

<removed-date>
                                                                  6 / 12
<removed-apn>          UMR
                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                      608                               614
                                      <U+271E>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                    Mapping
                                                  <U+2706>
                                      <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2702>
                                      <U+271D>           <U+2702>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                    Accurate
                                                                               No
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                      <U+2706>
                                                                       ?
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+2721>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                      <U+2701>           <U+261B>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                <U+2706>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                        <U+271F>
                                      <U+271E>                                                         <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                      <U+2720>
                                                                   Yes
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                  <U+2720>
                                      <U+2720>
                                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                      <U+2711>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                <U+270D>
                          <U+2704>
                              <U+2706>
                              <U+2704>
                              <U+2706>
                                                      606
                          <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                              <U+2702>
                          <U+2706>
                              <U+271D>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                        Figure 6
                              <U+2706>
                          <U+2720>
                                                      <U+271D>
                              <U+271E>
                          <U+271F>
                                                      <U+2706>
                                          <U+271F>
                              <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                          <U+271F>
                          <U+271E>
                          <U+271D>
                          <U+2706>
                                          <U+271E>
                              <U+261B>                       <U+2702>
                          <U+260E>
                                                              <U+270C>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                              <U+2701>
                              <U+2704>
                                          <U+2706>
                          <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2702>
                          <U+2704>
                              <U+2720>
                                          <U+271F>                   <U+2704>
                                                      <U+271D>
                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+2701>                   <U+2702>
                              <U+271E>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2706>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2706>
                              <U+2701>
                                          <U+2704>           <U+271E>
                          <U+2701>                                   <U+261B>
                              <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2706>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                      <U+261B>       <U+271F>
                              <U+2721>           <U+260E>
                                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+2701>
                                                  604
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                        618
                                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+261B>
                                              <U+271D>
                                  <U+2704>
                                              <U+2702>
                                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+271E>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                    Data
                                              <U+261B>
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                              <U+271D>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+2706>
                                              <U+2720>
                                              <U+2706>
                                                                   Labeled          <U+2706>
                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2701>
                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                               No
                                  <U+271F>
                                                                      ?
                                              <U+2706>                                             <U+2704>       <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                            <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                              <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                              <U+2720>                                             <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                            <U+271F>
                                  <U+2702>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2714>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                            <U+2720>
                                                                                    <U+2713>
                                              <U+2704>
                                              <U+2701>           <U+2704>
                                  <U+270D>                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2720>       <U+2704>
                                                                   Yes
                                                                                    <U+2706>
                                                                                                    <U+2715>
                                                                                            <U+2704>
                                                                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                    <U+2712>               <U+271E>
                              <U+2704>
                                      602
                              <U+2701>
                                                      <U+271F>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+271D>
                              <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2720>
                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                      <U+271E>
                                          <U+2720>
                              <U+2720>
                                                      <U+270F>
                                          <U+2706>
                              <U+271F>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2704>
                                          <U+270E>
                              <U+271E>
                              <U+271D>
                              <U+2706>           <U+2720>
                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+260E>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                          <U+271E>
                              <U+2704>           <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+2704>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                          <U+2706>
                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+2706>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                          <U+2702>           <U+2701>
                              <U+2706>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271E>
                              <U+2701>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                         <U+2706>
                                          <U+2704>           <U+261B>
                                                                         <U+260E>
              600                         <U+2701>
                                          <U+2704>
                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+2701>

<removed-date>
                    702               704           706               7 / 12                                                                                                               708       710
                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
               716
                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                                 <U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                 736
                                                                                                                 <U+2717>
                                                                                                 <U+270C>
                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                              <U+2716>
                                                                                                                 <U+270C>
                                                                                                     <U+271A>
                              <U+2715>
                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                 <U+270E>
                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                     <U+271C>
                              <U+2714>
                          <U+261E>
                          <U+270F>
                              <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                             714
                                                                                                                                         <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
               714                                                                             732
                                                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                 <U+270F>
                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                               <U+271D>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271C>
                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                   <U+271B>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2726>
                                                                               <U+2702>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                               <U+270C>
                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                       728
                                                                                   <U+2713>
                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2711>
                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                               <U+271D>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                               <U+2702>
                                  <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                             <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                             <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+2702>                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                     <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271B>
                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                             <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                   <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                               730
                                                                                                                                     <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                     <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>             <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 7
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                          <U+270F>
                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                            <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                            <U+2701>
                                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                            <U+2717>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                  726
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                                         <U+261E>
                                            <U+271F>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                       <U+270F>                                                                                                         <U+2702>
                                            <U+271D>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>             <U+2720>
                                                          <U+2718>
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                         <U+260E>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                <U+2716>
                                                                                                                         <U+2701>
                                                                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                                                         <U+2723>
                                                                                                         <U+2706>
                                                                                           <U+271C>
                                                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 738
                                                                                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                             <U+2714>
                                                                                                         <U+2721>
                                                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                                             <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                  724
                                                                                                             <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                                         <U+2723>
                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                                                                             <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                         <U+271F>
                                                                                                         <U+2722>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+270C>
                                                                                                                         <U+2724>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                            742
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                       722
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2720>
                                                                              720
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2702>                                                                                        <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2717>
                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2716>
                                                                  <U+271C>
                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
              700
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2714>                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           740
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                  <U+2715>

                                                                             <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                  816           816               816          816
                                                                                                         802
                                                                                  Data Flow Layer
                                                                                                         804
                                                                                   Data Source Layer
            818                                                        818
                                                   818   818
                         818
            822                                                820                 Data Lineage Layer
                    Key            Key                                   Key                            8 / 12
                  Metadata       Metadata                              Metadata
                  Frame 1        Frame 2                               Frame N
                                        822                          822                                 806
      828
832                                                                                 Data Field Layer    808
                               834
                                              Figure 8

<removed-date>
                                                1004                                                                                                                               9 / 12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1004
                      1002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                    1002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                        <U+2711>
                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                        <U+270F>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                        <U+2701>
                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>                                                                                                                                          <U+271B>
                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2712>                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                   <U+270C>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>           <U+271F>
                                        <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                        <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>               <U+271F>
                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                        <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271B>                           <U+2701>
                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                   <U+2702>               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                               <U+2702>   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                       <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2725>
                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271F>
                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                        <U+2720>
                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>                               <U+2711>   <U+2711>           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                    1008
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>       <U+271D>       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                       <U+271A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270C>
                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>                               <U+270C>   <U+270C>           <U+270C>
                                        <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>       <U+2721>   <U+2721>   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2702>
                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>                               <U+2702>   <U+2702>           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>       <U+2721>   <U+2721>   <U+2721>
                                        <U+2702>                                              <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>
                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>                               <U+2701>               <U+2701>
                        1008
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701>               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>       <U+2702>   <U+2702>   <U+2702>                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>                               <U+271D>   <U+271D>           <U+271D>
                                        <U+271F>                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                   <U+260E>
                                            <U+271B>                  <U+270C>
                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                        <U+2712>                      <U+271F>
                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                               <U+2721>                                   <U+270F>
                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                       <U+271C>
                                        <U+2701>                      <U+2706>                                       <U+2713>
              1000
                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>                                                                                         <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>     <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                               1006
                                                                                                                                            <U+2721>                                                                                <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>                                                                          <U+2702>     <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2711>                                                                          <U+2711>     <U+2711>    <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>               <U+271D>                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                            <U+270C>                                                                          <U+270C>     <U+270C>    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>               <U+2721>           <U+2721>               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2702>                                                                          <U+2702>     <U+2702>    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>               <U+2721>           <U+2721>               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2701>                                                                          <U+2701>     <U+2701>    <U+2701>
                             1004
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>               <U+2702>           <U+2702>               <U+2702>                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                            <U+271D>                                                                          <U+271D>     <U+271D>    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Figure 9
                     1002
                                                                                                                    <U+271F>
                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2711>
                                    <U+270C>                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271B>
                                                                                                                    <U+270F>
                                                                                                           <U+2725>
                                    <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                    <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                <U+271F>
                                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271F>                  <U+2712>
                                                                                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                           <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                    <U+2721>
                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>                  <U+271F>
                                                                       <U+261E>                                            <U+271F>
                                    <U+2721>                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                            <U+261E>
                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                    <U+2702>                                                                                       <U+2702>   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2725>               <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+270C>                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                    <U+2711>                                                                                       <U+2711>   <U+2711>   <U+2711>
                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+271D>                   <U+271D>                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+270F>
                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                                                            <U+270C>   <U+270C>   <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+2721>                   <U+2721>               <U+2721>        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>
                                    <U+2702>                                                                                       <U+2702>   <U+2702>   <U+2702>
                                                                       <U+2721>                   <U+2721>               <U+2721>        <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                    <U+2701>                                                                                       <U+2701>   <U+2701>   <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2702>                   <U+2702>               <U+2702>        <U+2702>                                  <U+2721>
                                    <U+271D>                                                                                       <U+271D>   <U+271D>   <U+271D>
                1002
                    1006
                                                                                                                                                    1004                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                        <U+271F>                                                                                                                             <U+271B>
                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                           <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                        <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                               <U+270F>                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                        <U+270F>
                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                                <U+2725>                                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270C>
                                                       <U+270C>
                                                                                                                <U+271F>                                                                                                                                 <U+271F>
                                                                           <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                        <U+270C>                                                                                                                                         <U+2711>
                                                                                                                <U+2719>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                       <U+271D>                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2714>
                                                                           <U+271D>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                        <U+271F>                                                                                                                                         <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                       <U+2711>
                                <U+271D>                                                                               <U+271D>                                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                           <U+2711>                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                        <U+2704>
                                                       <U+2701>                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+270F>                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                <U+270C>                          <U+2714>                                                    <U+270C>
                                                                                               <U+2725>
                                                                           <U+2702>                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                       <U+2723>                       <U+271B>                                        <U+271E>                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2723>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                <U+261B>                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2711>               <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>                                   <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                <U+271E>                                                                               <U+271E>
                                                       <U+271D>                   <U+271D>                   <U+271D>                        <U+271D>                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+270C>                                   <U+270C>
                                <U+2721>                      <U+2721>                   <U+2721>                   <U+2721>                <U+2721>       <U+2721>                                                                      <U+2721>                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>                                               <U+2702>               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>                                   <U+2702>                                                          <U+270F>
                                <U+2721>                      <U+2721>                   <U+2721>                   <U+2721>                <U+2721>       <U+2721>                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701>                                   <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>       <U+2721>                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>                                               <U+271D>               <U+271D>
                                <U+2702>                      <U+2702>                   <U+2702>                   <U+2702>                <U+2702>       <U+2702>                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271D>                                   <U+271D>

                                                                                                                                           <removed-apn>                        <removed-date>
                                                                                                                                  904
                                                                                                                   902
                                           Technical Context                                                                                   Business Context
                              A            C
                                                                                                                                           B
                                           D                       D                                                 C
    B
                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                          K             K
                                   F           F           F           F                                       F          F                                                          
                                                                               F       F
                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                                                                 M
                                                                                                                                                                     L   P
                                                                                                                                           N   A
                                       G
                                                                                                                                                                   O         A
                                                                                                                                                                                      10 / 12
              A      A        H                        H                   
                      I
              C               J                J               J
                      K       K        K       K               K   K
                                           L                                                                                                                                         906
Node Information                                                                                                                                   Edge Information                        908
Container D Data Source       G   Operation        E   Profile             I   Attribute   K   Node        B       Definition M   User     O       Is: Inheritance
Field     F       Key Frame   H   Timestamp        A   Collection J            Tool        C   Data Rule   L       Role       N   Report   P       Has: Relation
                                                                                                                                                    Reference
                                                                                           Figure 10                                                                                  910

                                                       11 / 12
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D>                               <U+272A>
                                                     <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701><U+261B>
                                                                       1102
                 1111                         <U+2715><U+270D><U+271A><U+2701><U+261B><U+260E> <U+2715><U+270D><U+270F><U+271F><U+2721><U+2722><U+271D><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D>
                                                                       1104
                        <U+272B><U+261B><U+2701><U+2721> <U+2715><U+270D><U+261E><U+2720><U+260E>
                                            <U+2726><U+271F><U+2721><U+2722><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+2729><U+2701> <U+2715><U+270D><U+270F><U+271F><U+2721><U+2722><U+271D><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D>
<removed-apn>
                                                                       1106
                                              <U+272A><U+271F><U+270D><U+270F><U+2702><U+270E><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2714><U+2701><U+261B><U+271F><U+2702><U+2720><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D>
                                                                       1108
                                             <U+272A><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D><U+2702><U+271F><U+271A> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701><U+261B>                              <U+272C>
                                                                        1110
                                               <U+2706><U+271D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2721><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2704><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D>                                    <U+2711>
                                                    <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701><U+261B>
                                                                        1112
                                               <U+2706><U+271D><U+261E> <U+270C><U+2721><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2704><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D>
                                                <U+2711><U+2701><U+261B><U+260E><U+270E><U+270D><U+271D><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B>
                                                                        1114
                                                   <U+2706><U+271D><U+260E><U+2704><U+2724><U+270E><U+270D><U+271A>
                                                                          1116
                             1118                                                      1120
                                 <U+2706><U+270E><U+270D><U+2701> <U+2711><U+270E><U+261B><U+2704><U+2721><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2716>            <U+2706><U+270E><U+270D><U+2701> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701><U+261B> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2721> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D>
                               <U+2717><U+2721><U+271F><U+2718><U+271D><U+2718><U+270E><U+2702><U+270E><U+261B><U+260E><U+270E><U+2704> <U+2719><U+270E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271D><U+271A><U+2701>         <U+2712><U+2720><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+260E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2701><U+2702><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+2715><U+270D><U+270F><U+271F>
              1128                         <U+2715><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2713> <U+271B><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271C><U+2721><U+271D><U+2722><U+2701><U+261B>            1122
                                            <U+2723><U+2722><U+271F><U+270D><U+271A> <U+270C><U+2721><U+271D><U+270D><U+261B><U+271D><U+2704><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D><U+261B> <U+270F><U+271F><U+2721>
                  <U+2711><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701><U+2721><U+2722><U+270E><U+270D><U+2701>                       <U+2701><U+271D><U+2704><U+2724> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270E><U+270F><U+270F><U+2701><U+2721><U+2701><U+270D><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+261E><U+261E><U+2701><U+2721>
                                                                1126
                            <U+2726><U+2727>                   <U+2723><U+2702><U+2702> <U+2704><U+2724><U+2701><U+2722><U+271D><U+261B>                      <U+2605><U+2701><U+261B>          <U+2723>
                                                  <U+2715><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2701><U+271E><U+2725>
                                                       Figure 11

                                                       12 / 12
<removed-date>
                                                                                     1132
              <U+2723>                                    <U+260E>   <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2721><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701> <U+270C><U+270E><U+2722><U+2701><U+2702><U+270E><U+270D><U+2701> <U+271C><U+2702><U+271F><U+2706>
                                                       <U+271F><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271C><U+2721><U+271D><U+2722><U+2701><U+261B>
                                                                                        1134
                                                   <U+260E><U+271F><U+2721><U+2701> <U+271B><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271C><U+2721><U+271D><U+2722><U+2701><U+261B> <U+2706><U+270E><U+260E><U+2724>
                                                     <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724><U+2701><U+2721><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+271E> <U+260E><U+270E><U+2722><U+2701><U+261B><U+260E><U+271D><U+2722><U+261E><U+261B>
                                                                                        1136
                             738                 <U+2723><U+261B><U+261B><U+271F><U+2704><U+270E><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701> <U+271C><U+270E><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E><U+261B>
                                                    <U+2706><U+270E><U+260E><U+2724> <U+271B><U+2701><U+2713> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271C><U+2721><U+271D><U+2722><U+2701><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                            1138
                                                    <U+260E><U+271F><U+2721><U+2701> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+271C><U+270E><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E> <U+260E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270E><U+261B><U+260E><U+270E><U+2704><U+261B>
                                                                                            1140
              <U+260E><U+2721><U+271D><U+261E><U+2724><U+2721><U+2711><U+271F><U+2704><U+2720><U+2722><U+2701><U+270D><U+260E>
                    <U+260E><U+271F><U+2721><U+2701>                                                                                          1142
                                                        <U+260E><U+271F><U+2721><U+2701> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2721><U+270E><U+2718><U+2720><U+260E><U+2701><U+261B>
                                                                                               <U+260E><U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2721><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D>
                                                                                             <U+2719><U+270E><U+270D><U+2701><U+271D><U+271A><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2721><U+2720><U+2704><U+260E><U+2720><U+2721><U+2701>
                                                            <U+260E><U+271D><U+260E><U+270E><U+2704> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D>
                                                            <U+2723><U+270D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2713><U+261B><U+270E><U+261B>
                                                                              1146
                                                   1148
                                     <U+2605><U+2701><U+261B>                <U+260E>  <U+271D><U+261E> <U+270E><U+270D> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D><U+2725>              <U+2726><U+271F>                   1158
                      1150
                                                                                   <U+2711><U+2713><U+270D><U+271D><U+2722><U+270E><U+2704> <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2723><U+270D><U+271D><U+2702><U+2713><U+261B><U+270E><U+261B>
                             <U+271C><U+270E><U+270D><U+271E> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701> <U+261B><U+2701>                <U+2726><U+271F>
               1152
                                                                                     1158
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2701><U+260E><U+271D><U+271E><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D>                          <U+271D>   <U+271F><U+2702><U+270E><U+261B><U+260E><U+270E><U+2704>
                                <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701> <U+261B><U+2701>                                 <U+271E><U+270E><U+2701><U+2706>                        <U+2605><U+2701><U+261B>
              1154                                                                                                   1164
                                                                           <U+2725>
                        <U+2702><U+2704>   <U+260E><U+2721><U+271D><U+2704><U+260E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F><U+271F><U+2721><U+2722><U+271D><U+260E><U+270E><U+271F><U+270D>                                                               <U+2701><U+270D><U+260E>
                                                                                                             <U+2702><U+271F>
                                                                                                        <U+2706><U+271D><U+270D><U+271D><U+271A><U+2701><U+2722><U+2701><U+270D><U+260E>
                                                                 1166
                  <U+272C>                                                       <U+2712><U+2720><U+271D><U+2702><U+270E><U+260E><U+2713>
                                                   <U+2726><U+271F>                    <U+270C><U+2724><U+2721><U+2701><U+261B><U+2724><U+271F><U+2702><U+271E>                     <U+2605><U+2701><U+261B>
                                                          1168               <U+2725>                                     1176
                  <U+272A>
                                     <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2717><U+2721><U+271F><U+2704><U+2701><U+261B><U+261B><U+270E><U+270D><U+271A>                                               <U+260E> <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2721><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2723><U+2702><U+2701><U+2721><U+260E>
                      1170                                          1172                    1178
                              <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2711><U+270E><U+261B><U+261E><U+2702><U+271D><U+2713>          <U+2711><U+271D><U+260E><U+271D> <U+260E><U+271F><U+2721><U+271D><U+271A><U+2701>                                    <U+2715><U+271E><U+2701><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F><U+2713> <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2701><U+261B>
                                                                                        1180
                  <U+2711>                                                                            <U+260E>   <U+2701><U+270D><U+2701><U+2721><U+271D><U+260E><U+2701> <U+271C><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+2718><U+271D><U+2704><U+2720>
                                                                                                      <U+2706><U+2701><U+261B><U+261B><U+271D><U+271A><U+2701>
                                                       Figure 12

