   1002139969
                                       ABSTRACT
            An internal component and external interface arrangement for a cylindrical
 5 compact computing system is described that includes at least a structural heat sink
   having triangular shape disposed within a cylindrical volume defined by a cylindrical
   housing. A computing engine having a generally triangular shape is described having
   internal components that include a graphics processing unit (GPU) board, a central
   processing unit (CPU) board, an input/output (I/O) interface board, an interconnect
10 board, and a power supply unit (PSU).

   1002139969
                   COMPUTER INTERNAL ARCHITECTURE
   FIELD OF THE DESCRIBED EMBODIMENTS
   [0001]      The embodiments described herein relate generally to compact computing
 5 systems.    More particularly, the present embodiments relate to the structure and
   organization of internal components and external interfaces for a compact computing
   system.
   RELATED APPLICATION
   [0001A]         Incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is
10 PCT/US2014/041153 (published as WO 2014/197726), filed on 5 June 2014.
   [0001B]         This application is also a divisional application of Australian Patent
   Application No. <removed-apn>, filed on 28 July 2017.
   BACKGROUND
   [0002]      The form factor of a compact computing system, including its external
15 shape and arrangement of internal components, can determine a density of computing
   power achievable.      A densely packed arrangement of high-speed computational
   elements can provide significant challenges to maintaining thermal stability under
   varying environmental conditions.        In addition, a user of the compact computing
   system can expect moderate to low operational sound levels and ready access to
20 replaceable components. With continuous improvements in storage density and other
   computational support elements, the user can also require expansion capability to
   provide for customization and upgrades.
   [0003]      One design challenge associated with the manufacture of compact
   computing systems is the arrangement of structural components and functional
25 components with adequate thermal heat transfer and acceptable sound levels when
   used in a fully functional operating state. An additional design challenge is to provide
   for user servicing of select components and ready expansion capabilities to
   supplement processing and/or storage capabilities of the compact computing system.
   Commonly available expandable designs, e.g., based around a rectangular box shaped
30 computing tower, can be limited in adequate airflow and/or require complex heat
   transfer mechanisms for multiple computational              units inside. "Tower"      based
   computers can include room for expansion at the expense of an enlarged outer
   enclosure, with substantial "dead space" throughout. Alternatively, current portable
                                               1

   1002139969
   computing     systems   provide highly     compact designs     with limited expansion
   capabilities, complex part replacement, and minimal user customization.
   SUMMARY OF THE DESCRIBED EMBODIMENTS
   [0004]      The present application describes various embodiments regarding systems
 5 and methods for providing a lightweight, durable and compact computing system
   having a cylindrical cross section. This can be accomplished at least in part through a
   general computing system arrangement of internal components that cooperates with a
   monolithic housing to provide a compact computing system having a high computing
   power density in a compact and durable enclosure
   [0005]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
   and that defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis, a
   computing engine comprising a computational component, and a structural core
   positioned within the internal volume that provides structural support for the
   computing engine.
10 [0006]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
   and an interior surface that defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the
   longitudinal axis and a computing engine comprising a computational component, the
   computing engine located within the internal volume comprising a cross section that
   has a polygonal shape and that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.
15 [0007]      A desktop computing system includes a cylindrical housing having a
   longitudinal axis and that encloses and defines an internal volume having a circular
   cross section centered at the longitudinal axis and defined by a radius centered at the
   longitudinal axis and that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and a printed circuit
   board (PCB) disposed within the internal volume comprising a shape defined in part
20 by a PCB major centerline that is parallel to the longitudinal axis and is perpendicular
   to the radius and is located a distance from the longitudinal axis along the radius.
   [0008]      A method of indicating a movement of a desktop computing system
   includes at least the following operations: detecting the movement of the desktop
   computing system by a sensor, providing a movement detection signal by the sensor
25 to a processor in accordance with the movement, providing an illumination control
   signal by the processor in response to the movement detection signal to an I/O
   interface panel comprising a light emitting diode (LED), generating a light by the
   LED in response to the illumination control signal, and illuminating an I/O port using
   at least some of the light indicating the movement of the desktop computing system.
                                              2

   1002139969
   [0009]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a shape that is
   symmetric about a longitudinal axis, an air passage spanning an entire length of the
   housing, and a computational component disposed within the air passage.
   [0010]      A computer architecture that includes an internal component and external
 5 interface arrangement for a compact computing system is described.            The internal
   component and external interface arrangement includes a structural heat sink having a
   lengthwise axis and that provides structural support for a computing engine having a
   computational component, the structural heat sink including planar faces that define a
   central region having a polygonal cross section that is perpendicular to the lengthwise
10 axis and at least one of which carries the computational component, and a cooling that
   connects an interior surface of a first planar face to an interior surface of at least a
   second planar face and that spans the central region.
   [0011]      A method for illuminating an illumination pattern display indicator for a
   set of input/output (I/O) ports on an I/O interface panel of a compact computing
15 system is described. The method is carried out by detecting at least one of a rotational
   movement and a translational movement of the compact computing system, providing
   an illumination control signal to an I/O flexible wall sub-assembly mounted on an
   interior face of the I/O interface panel of the compact computing system, and in
   response to the provided illumination control signal, activating one or more light
20 emitting diodes (LEDs) to transmit a beam of light, guided by a grouping light guide
   positioned adjacent to the set of 11O ports, through a laser etched opening of a paint
   layer on an outer surface of the interface panel, where the laser etched opening
   surrounds the set of ports, and where a first portion of the interface panel adjacent to
   the grouping light guide is at least partially transparent to the beam of light, and where
25 a second portion of the interface panel adjacent to the first portion of the interface
   panel and adjacent to at least one port in the set of ports is opaque to the beam of
   light.
   [0012]      A rotating and locking memory module mechanism includes a pair of end
   guides, connected by a supporting member, each end guide including a slot to hold an
30 end of a memory module and direct the memory module to a socket mounted on a
   circuit board, a lock mechanism configured to provide for rotation of the memory
   module mechanism between an unlocked position and locked position, an actuator
   attached to a first end guide in the pair of end guides, wherein a user actuates a
   rotating and locking function of the memory module mechanism by applying a
                                               3

   1002139969
   pressing force to the actuator or to the supporting member, thereby rotating the
   memory module mechanism between the unlocked position and the locked position
   and the supporting member configured to provide structural support to transfer a
   portion of the pressing force applied to the actuator to an end guide opposite the
 5 actuator and to resist torsion of the memory module mechanism.              The memory
   module mechanism allows insertion and removal of the memory module while in the
   unlocked position and restricts insertion and removal of the memory module while in
   the locked position.
   [0013]      A desktop computing system, includes a computing engine positioned
10 within a cylindrical housing that defines a cylindrical volume having a longitudinal
   axis and a thermal management system closely coupled with the computing engine
   wherein the thermal management system responds directly to a change in an activity
   level of the computing engine in real time.
   [0014]      A memory module mechanism includes a pair of end guides comprising a
15 first and second end guides, connected by a supporting member, each end guide
   including a slot to hold an end of a memory module and direct the memory module to
   a socket mounted on a circuit board, a lock mechanism configured to provide for
   rotation of the memory module mechanism between an unlocked position and a
   locked position, and an actuator attached to a first end guide in the pair of end guides,
20 wherein a user actuates a rotating and locking function of the memory module
   mechanism by applying a force to the actuator or to the supporting member, thereby
   rotating the memory module mechanism between the unlocked position and the
   locked position.
   [0015]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having an interior surface
25 that defines a cylindrical volume having longitudinal axis and a computing engine
   comprising a computational component mounted to a printed circuit board (PCB), the
   computing engine located within the cylindrical volume and having a generally
   triangular cross section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.
   [0016]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
30 that encloses and defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the longitudinal
   axis, a computing engine disposed within the internal volume, and a structural heat
   sink positioned within the internal volume that provides structural support for the
   computing engine such that a shape of the computing engine corresponds to a shape
                                             4

   1002139969
   of the structural heat sink and wherein the structural heat sink facilitates removal of
   heat from the internal volume.
   [0017]      A compact desktop computing system includes a housing having a
   longitudinal axis having a length L, wherein the housing encloses and defines an
 5 internal space that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis and having a volume V. a
   computing engine positioned within the internal space and a thermal management
   system that is closely coupled with the computing engine wherein the thermal
   management system enables the computing engine to operate at a computational
   processing rate.
10 [0018]      A desktop computing system includes a housing that defines an internal
   space, an air passage positioned within the internal space having a length that spans
   an entire length of the housing, and a computational component disposed within the
   air passage wherein an amount of air that moves through the air passage is in
   accordance with a current operation of the computational component.
15 [0019]      Other apparatuses, methods, features and advantages of the invention will
   be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the
   following figures and detailed description.     It is intended that all such additional
   systems, methods, features and advantages be included within this description, be
   within the scope of the invention, and be protected by the accompanying claims.
20 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0020]      The included drawings are for illustrative purposes and serve only to
   provide examples of possible structures and arrangements for the disclosed inventive
   apparatuses and methods for providing compact computing systems. These drawings
   in no way limit any changes in form and detail that may be made to the invention by
25 one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The
   embodiments will be readily understood by the following detailed description in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein like reference numerals
   designate like structural elements.
   [0021]      FIG. 1 illustrates a perspective external view of a compact computing
30 system in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0022]      FIG. 2 illustrates a central core of internal components of the compact
   computing system in accordance with some embodiments.
                                              5

   1002139969
   [0023]      FIG. 3 illustrates an exploded view of the central core of internal
   components     of the     compact    computing     system    in  accordance   with   some
   embodiments.
   [0024]      FIG. 4 illustrates a view of a first side of a central processing unit (CPU)
 5 board in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0025]      FIG. 5 illustrates a view of a second side of the CPU board attached to a
   structural core/heat sink in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0026]      FIG. 6 illustrates a top view of the CPU board mounted to a structural
   core/heat sink of the       compact computing        system in accordance      with some
10 embodiments.
   [0027]      FIG. 7 illustrates a cross sectional view of the CPU board mounted to the
   structural core/heat sink of the compact computing system in accordance with some
   embodiments.
   [0028]      FIG. 8 illustrates a view of a first side of a graphics processing unit (GPU)
15 board in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0029]      FIG. 9 illustrates a view of a second side of the GPU board in accordance
   with some embodiments.
   [0030]      FIG. 10 illustrates a cross sectional view of the GPU board mounted to the
   structural core/heat sink of the compact computing system in accordance with some
20 embodiments.
   [0031]      FIG. 11 illustrates a perspective view of the CPU board that includes
   DIMM mechanisms attached thereto in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0032]      FIG. 12 illustrates another perspective view of the CPU board that includes
   DIMM mechanisms attached thereto in accordance with some embodiments.
25 [0033]      FIGs. 13A - 13C illustrates perspective views of various embodiments of a
   DIMM mechanism.
   [0034]      FIG. 14 illustrates a front perspective view and a back perspective view of
   an end of the DIMM mechanism in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0035]      FIGs. 15A -       15D illustrates a view of embodiments of a DIMM
30 mechanism in an unlocked position and in a locked position.
   [0036]      FIG. 16 illustrates a top view of a wireless subsystem of the compact
   computing system in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0037]      FIG. 17 illustrates another top view of the wireless subsystem of the
   compact computing system in accordance with some embodiments.
                                              6

   1002139969
   [0038]      FIG. 18 illustrates a top perspective view of the components of the
   wireless subsystem of the compact computing system in accordance with some
   embodiments.
   [0039]      FIG. 19 illustrates a bottom perspective view of the wireless subsystem of
 5 the compact computing system in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0040]      FIG. 20 illustrates a perspective view of an input/output assembly coupled
   to a top mounted air mover assembly in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0041]      FIG. 21 illustrates another perspective view of the input/output assembly
   coupled to the top mounted air mover assembly in accordance                 with some
10 embodiments.
   [0042]      FIG. 22 illustrates a front view of the interface panel of the compact
   computing system in accordance with some embodiments.
   [0043]      FIG. 23 illustrates a front view of an input/output flexible wall assembly
   for the interface panel of the compact computing system in accordance with some
15 embodiments.
   [0044]      FIG. 24 illustrates a back view of the input/output flexible wall assembly
   attached to the back of the interface panel of the compact computing system in
   accordance with some embodiments.
   [0045]      FIG. 25 illustrates a back view and a cross sectional view of a portion of
20 the interface panel of the compact computing system in accordance with some
   embodiments.
   [0046]      FIG. 26 illustrates a method for illuminating an illumination pattern in
   response to detecting movement of the compact computing system in accordance with
   some embodiments.
25 [0047]      FIG. 27 shows a perspective view of an embodiment of a compact
   computing system in a stand alone and upright configuration.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SELECTED EMBODIMENTS
   [0048]      Representative applications of apparatuses and methods according to the
   presently described embodiments are provided in this section. These examples are
30 being provided solely to add context and aid in the understanding of the described
   embodiments.     It will thus be apparent to one skilled in the art that the presently
   described embodiments can be practiced without some or all of these specific details.
   In other instances, well known process steps have not been described in detail in order
   to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the presently described embodiments.             Other
                                              7

   1002139969
   applications are possible, such that the following examples should not be taken as
   limiting.
   [0049]      The following relates to a compact computing system that can be
   configured as a stand-alone device for placement upon, underneath, or adjacent to a
 5 work surface, e.g., a table or a desk. The compact computing system can be referred
   to as a desktop computer.      The compact computing system can include multiple
   internal electronic components including at least a central processing unit (CPU)
   board, one or more graphics processing unit (GPU) boards, and other primary and
   secondary internal components.         Although internal electronic components are
10 generally rectangular in shape, the compact computing system can take on a non
   rectangular form. One or more internal electronic component boards can be shaped to
   match a surface of the outer enclosure of the compact computing system, including
   for example, a circular shape to match a top or bottom of a cylinder, or a curved shape
   to match a segment of an arc conforming to a curved exterior surface of the outer
15 enclosure.     In representative embodiments      as described herein, the compact
   computing system can be cylindrical in shape and can be configured to arrange a
   number of rectangular electronic components as a central core providing a form factor
   characterized as having a high component packing density (a number of components
   per available volume). The resulting compact computing system can provide a high
20 computing power density in a small, lightweight, transportable form factor. In some
   embodiments, the compact computing system can also be coupled to other compact
   computing systems to form a multi-computer system that can be used as a server
   computer system (such as in a data farm) or as a network computing system having
   each compact computing system as a node (or nodes).
25 [0050]      In a particular embodiment, the compact computing system can include a
   monolithic housing that can surround and protect the central core. The monolithic
   housing can be easily removed for user servicing. The monolithic housing can be
   formed of aluminum having an anodized aluminum oxide layer that both protects the
   housing and promotes heat transfer for cooling the central core. Aluminum has a
30 number of properties that make it a good choice for the monolithic housing.         For
   example, aluminum is a good electrical conductor that can provide good electrical
   ground; it can be easily machined and has well known metallurgical properties. The
   superior electrical conductivity of aluminum provides a chassis ground for internal
   electrical components arranged to fit and operate within the housing. The aluminum
                                             8

   1002139969
   housing also provides a good electromagnetic interference (EMI) shield protecting
   sensitive electronic components from external electromagnetic energy as well as
   reducing an amount of electromagnetic energy, emanating from internal components
   within the compact computing system, from penetrating the housing, thereby
 5 contributing to assisting to achieve good electromagnetic compatibility (EMC).
   [0051]      A layer of aluminum oxide can be formed on the surface of aluminum in a
   process referred to as anodizing. In some cases, the layer of aluminum oxide can be
   dyed or otherwise imbued with one or more colors to take on a specific color or
   colors. It should be noted that since aluminum oxide is a good electrical insulator,
10 either the interior surface of the housing is masked during the anodizing process, to
   preserve the bare metal state of the bulk material in the masked region, or selected
   portions of the aluminum oxide layer are removed to provide a surface suitable for
   electrical contacts. As a solid metal structure, the aluminum monolithic housing can
   provide in part for thermal cooling while the compact computing system is
15 operational. The anodizing process applied to the surface of the housing can improve
   heat dissipation caused by thermal radiation from external surfaces of the compact
   computing system by increasing the anodized surface's infrared emissivity.
   [0052]       As noted above, the housing can take on many forms, however, for the
   remainder of this discussion, without loss of generality, the external housing takes on
20 a cylindrical shape that is separate from an internal cylindrical central core of
   structural components, internal processing components, internal storage components,
   internal power regulation components, and interconnect components.        To maximize
   thermal cooling of the central core, the external housing can be conductively coupled
   to selected portions of an internal structural component that can act as a rigid
25 structural element and as a heat sink. The external housing can have a thickness tuned
   to promote circumferential and axial thermal conduction that aids in mitigating hot
   spots on the external surface of the compact computing system.
   [0053]      A thermal management system can utilize an air mover that can be move
   copious amounts of air axially through an interior volume defined by the housing that
30 can be used to cool a central core of the compact computing system in a manner that
   is both efficient and quiet. Generally speaking, the air mover can provide a volume of
   air per unit time in the form of an airflow of about 15 - 20 cubic feet per minute
   (CFM) when major components such as a central processing unit (CPU) and/or a
   graphics processing unit (GPU) are not being heavily utilized.         However, when
                                            9

   1002139969
   processing demand increases, the air mover can compensate for any increase in heat
   generated by ramping up the airflow.        For example, in response to an increase in
   demand for processing resources from either or both the CPU and/or GPU, the air
   mover can increase the airflow from about 15 - 20 CFM to about 25 - 30 CFM (at
 5 about room temperature of 25C) with an acoustic output of about 35 dbA (it should
   be noted that these acoustic levels are only experienced when the air mover is
   performing at a higher end of its operating range during a period of high demand and
   not during more normal operation).          It should be noted that at higher ambient
   temperature (35'C), the air mover can ramp the airflow even further to compensate for
10 the reduced thermal transfer at the higher ambient temperature. In this situation, the
   air mover can ramp the airflow to about 35 to 40 CFM or more having a higher
   acoustic output of 40 dbA or more.
   [0054]      A separation between the central core and the housing can permit an
   internal, bypass, peripheral airflow to cool a portion of the external housing helping to
15 minimize a touch temperature of the housing.          In one embodiment, the external
   housing can mate to a base unit that provides, in part, a pedestal to support the
   compact computing system including the internal cylindrical central core when placed
   upright on a work surface. The external housing can include a first opening having a
   size and shape in accordance with the base unit. The first opening can provide for a
20 full perimeter air inlet, e.g. through circumferential openings in the base unit, and the
   circular design can allow for full functionality and adequate air intake even in those
   situations where the compact computing system is located in a corner or against a
   wall. In an assembled configuration, the base unit corresponds to a base of a cylinder.
   The first opening can be used to accept a flow of air from an external environment
25 passing through vents in the base unit. The amount of air that flows into the housing
   can be related to a pressure differential between the external environment and an
   interior of the compact computing system created by an air mover assembly. The air
   mover assembly can be placed next to a second opening axially disposed at an
   opposite end from the first opening.
30 [0055]      In one embodiment, the air mover assembly can take the form of a fan
   assembly. The fan assembly can be an axial fan assembly configured to axially move
   air through the housing by creating the abovementioned pressure differential. The fan
   assembly can also be configured as a combination of an axial and a centrifugal fan
   assembly.    In an embodiment, air can enter the interior of the compact computing
                                              10

   1002139969
   system through vents in the base unit. In one embodiment, a baffle arrangement can
   bifurcate the airflow in such a way that some of the airflow remains within a central
   column separate from a bypass, peripheral airflow radially disposed outward from the
   central column. The central column of air (central airflow) can thermally engage a
 5 heat sink structure to which one or more internal component boards can be mounted.
   The internal component boards can include processing units and/or memory, at least
   some of which can be thermally coupled to the heat sink structure.         The bypass,
   peripheral airflow can pass over portions of one side or both sides of the internal
   component boards on which high performance processing units, memory, solid state
10 drives, and/or power regulation components can be mounted. In order to optimize
   thermal transfer, at least some of the components can be configured and mounted
   axially (in the direction of airflow) and spaced appropriately to maximize an amount
   of air engaging the components distributed across the internal component boards.
   [0056]      In one embodiment, a vapor chamber in thermal contact with the heat sink
15 structure, being placed adjacent to and/or attached to the heat sink structure, can be
   used to further increase an amount of heat transferred to the central airflow from the
   internal component boards. The high performance processing units and/or portions of
   memory can be thermally coupled through direct contact to the heat sink structure
   and/or the vapor chamber connected thereto. Both the central airflow through the heat
20 sink structure and the bypass airflow across the internal component boards and other
   internal components can be used to cool the central core of the compact computing
   system and maintain the external housing at an acceptable touch temperature.
   [0057]      A good electrical ground (also referred to as a chassis ground) can be used
   to isolate internal components that can emit significant electromagnetic energy, e.g., a
25 main logic board (MLB), an internal board with higher performance computational
   units, high throughput interconnects and boards, and/or other internal components
   with high bandwidth interfaces, from those circuits, such as wireless circuits, that are
   sensitive to electromagnetic energy.         This electromagnetic isolation can be
   particularly important in the compact computing system due to the close proximity of
30 internal components that emit electromagnetic energy and those nearby components
   that are sensitive to electromagnetic energy. Moreover, the external housing can
   include conductive material (such as a gasket infused with conductive particles) or
   other electrically conductive regions that can be mated to a corresponding attachment
   feature on the base unit or the top mounted air mover assembly completing the
                                            11

   1002139969
   formation of a Faraday cage. The Faraday cage can block electromagnetic energy
   (both internal and external) effectively shielding the external environment from EMI
   generated by the compact computing system. In order to complete the Faraday cage,
   air vents in the base unit can be sized to effectively block and/or attenuate
 5 electromagnetic energy having a range of selected wavelengths.        More specifically,
   the wavelength of electromagnetic energy blocked and/or attenuated by the vents can
   be consistent with that emitted by active internal components operating in the
   compact computing system.
   [0058]      In one embodiment, the compact computing system can include a sensor
10 configured to detect whether or not the housing is properly in place and aligned with
   respect to the internal components.     Proper placement of the monolithic housing is
   important due to the key role that both the shape and configuration of the monolithic
   housing has with respect to thermal management of the compact computing system as
   well as completing the Faraday cage discussed above.           The compact computing
15 system can include an interlock system that detects the presence and proper alignment
   of the monolithic housing with respect to the internal components.       Only when the
   proper alignment is detected, the interlock system will allow the internal components
   to power up and operate in a manner consistent with system specification.         In one
   embodiment, the interlock system can include a magnetic element detectable by a
20 Hall effect sensor only when the housing is in a proper position and alignment with
   respect to the internal components.
   [0059]      Due at least to the strong and resilient nature of the material used to form
   the housing; the housing can include a large opening having a wide span that do not
   require additional support structures. Such an opening can be used to provide access
25 to an input/output panel and power supply port. The input/output panel can include,
   for example, data ports suitable for accommodating data cables configured for
   connecting external systems that can provide expansion capabilities as input/output
   data transfer. The opening can also provide access to an audio circuit, video display
   circuit, power input, etc. In an embodiment, one or more data ports (and/or icons
30 representing the data ports and/or groupings of data ports) can be illuminated to
   provide easier access to locating and connecting to the one or more data ports in
   reduced lighting.
   [0060]      FIG. 1 illustrates a perspective external view of a compact computing
   system 100 in accordance with some embodiments. The compact computing system
                                             12

   1002139969
   100 can be arranged in a shape defined by an external housing 102. An arrangement
   of internal components of the compact computing system 100 and a thermal
   management strategy can be selected to provide a computationally dense computing
   system having sufficient airflow to support high performance computing with the
 5 compact computing system 100 placed in a variety of physical positions.            In the
   described embodiments, the external housing 102 can comprise a cylindrical shape
   having a first circular opening at the base of the external housing 102, which mates to
   an air intake inlet/base unit 104 that can provide support for constituent components
   of the compact computing system 100. The external housing 102 can also include a
10 second opening located opposite the first circular opening, and the second opening
   can function as a combination of an air exhaust outlet and a carrying handle 106.
   [0061]      When operational, an air mover assembly in the compact computing
   system 100 can cause air to enter through a plurality of circumferential openings
   located in the inlet/base unit 104, to pass through an internal structural core/heat sink
15 and across a plurality of component boards, and to exit through the outlet/handle 106.
   The size of the internal structural core/heat sink, the arrangement of multiple internal
   component boards, the arrangement of computational and memory units on the
   multiple internal component boards, the design of attached power supplies, and the
   arrangement of high speed interconnects between various internal component boards
20 can function in concert with the air mover assembly to provide a thermal management
   system that enables a high performance computing system in a compact, dense
   geometric arrangement, encased in the external housing 102 with an acceptable touch
   temperature.
   [0062]      The inlet/base unit 104 of the compact computing system 100 can provide
25 support for the compact computing system 100. Accordingly, the inlet/base unit 104
   can be formed of a strong and resilient material, e.g., a metal that can also prevent
   leakage of electromagnetic (EM) energy from internal components within the
   compact computing system 100 that can radiate EM energy during operation. Thus,
   the inlet/base unit 104 can contribute to shielding internal components from
30 electromagnetic interference (EMI) and to blocking and/or attenuating radiant EM
   energy to support electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) compliance.          The inlet/base
   unit 104 can be formed of non-metallic compounds that can be rendered conductive
   using, for example, conductive particles embedded therein. In order to assure that
   minimal electromagnetic energy emitted by internal components within the compact
                                             13

   1002139969
   computing system 100 escapes, a conductive seal can be used to complete a Faraday
   cage formed at least in part by the inlet/base unit 104 and the external housing 102.
   [0063]      The inlet/base unit 104 can also include a series of circumferential vents
   extending around the entire inlet/base unit 104.      The vents can provide a suitable
 5 amount of airflowing from an external environment to the internal volume of the
   compact computing system 100. In an embodiment, the amount of airflowing through
   the vents can be related to a pressure differential across the vents created by an air
   mover assembly disposed within the compact computing system 100.                 In one
   embodiment, the air mover assembly can be disposed near the second opening of the
10 external housing 102, which forms an outlet/handle 106 for the compact computing
   system 100, creating a suction effect that reduces an ambient pressure within the
   external housing 102 of the compact computing system 100. In addition to facilitating
   airflow, vents in the inlet/base 104 can be sized to prevent transmission of
   electromagnetic energy into or out of the assembled compact computing system 100.
15 The size of the vents in the inlet/base 104, in some embodiments, can be related to
   one or more wavelengths of electromagnetic energy emitted by internal components
   contained within the compact computing system 100.
   [0064]      The compact computing system 100 can further include an opening in the
   external housing 102 that can have a size and shape in accordance with an interface
20 panel 110.   The interface panel 110 can include various ports that can be used to
   communicate data between the compact computing system 100 and various external
   systems. For example, the interface panel 110 can include a set of audio ports 116 that
   can be used to provide an audio stream to an external audio system, such as
   headphones, speakers, or an audio processor. The set of audio ports 116 can also be
25 used to receive an audio stream from an external audio system, e.g., a microphone or
   audio recording device. The interface panel 110 can also include a set of data ports,
   including a set of bus ports 118, a set of high-speed expansion ports 120, a set of
   networking ports 122, and a set of video ports 114. The set of data ports can be used
   to transfer data and/or power between one or more external circuits and the compact
30 computing system 100. The set of data ports can be used to accommodate a broad
   range of data connections according to different wired data communication protocols,
   e.g., one or more Universal Serial Bus (USB) ports 118, one or more Thunderbolt
   high speed expansion ports 120, one or more Ethernet networking ports 122, and one
   or more high definition media interface (HDMI) ports 114.
                                              14

   1002139969
   [0065]      The compact computing system 100 can be interconnected to other
   computing systems through one or more of the data ports provided through the
   interface panel 110, e.g., to data storage devices, portable media players, and/or video
   equipment, to form a network of computing systems. Accordingly, the interface panel
 5 110 and associated data ports of the compact computing system 100 can be used to
   form connections from the compact computing system 100 to a large number and
   variety of external computing systems and circuits, which can prove particularly
   useful when a large amount of computing resources is required.           Moreover, the
   compact size and shape of the compact computing system 100 can lend itself to space
10 efficient computing networks or data farms, in some representative embodiments and
   uses.
   [0066]      The interface panel 110 can include a video port 114 that can be used to
   communicate high-speed video between the compact computing system 100 and an
   external video monitor or other external video processing circuitry.       The interface
15 panel 110 can include a power switch 124 that can be readily available to accept a
   user touch for initiating a power on sequence (including, for example, a boot up
   process) as well as a power down sequence. In some embodiments, the power switch
   124 can be illuminated and provide an activity indication to a user, e.g., under
   software control of a processing unit in the compact computing system 100.           The
20 interface panel 110 can include an alternating current (AC) power input port 112,
   which can be sized and shaped to accept a power plug suitable for transferring
   external power to operational electronic components within the external housing 102.
   In some embodiments, the compact computing system 100 can include internal power
   resources (such as a battery) that can be charged and re-charged in accordance with
25 power delivered by way of power input port 112.
   [0067]      The external housing 102 can include a mechanical latch 108 that can be
   used to couple the external housing 102 of the compact computing system 100
   securely to internal structures of the compact computing system 100. The mechanical
   latch 108 can take the form of a sliding latch or other such operable mechanism that
30 can be manually engaged and disengaged. In this way, the external housing 102 can
   be easily removed in order to expose internal components and structures of the
   compact computing system 100 for user maintenance, upgrade, or servicing by a
   service center. A detection circuit (not shown) of the compact computing system 100
   can be used to detect whether the external housing 102 is properly situated in place
                                             15

   1002139969
   with respect to internal components and structures. The detection circuit can serve a
   useful function as the thermal management strategy of compact computing system
   100 can rely on the proper placement and use of the external housing 102 in
   combination with the arrangement of internal components and an air mover assembly
 5 inside the compact computing system 100.
   [0068]      In some embodiments, the detection circuit can determine that the external
   housing 102 is not in proper placement or alignment with respect to internal structures
   or components of the compact computing system 100, and the detection circuit can
   prevent the compact computing system 100 from operating, or at least from operating
10 at full capacity.   In one embodiment, the detection circuit can include a magnetic
   sensor (such as a Hall Effect device) located to detect one or more magnets disposed
   on the external housing 102 when the external housing 102 is properly placed and
   aligned on the compact computing system 100.
   [0069]      FIG. 2 illustrates a central core 200 of internal components assembled
15 together and positioned on the inlet/base 104 of the compact computing system 100
   with the external housing 102 removed. The cylindrical shape of compact computing
   system 100 can dictate the arrangement of various internal components as well as set
   requirements for thermal management. For example, internal components of the
   compact computing system 100 can be arranged in an axial manner that optimizes
20 both a component packing density (the number of operational components per
   available volume) and a computing power density (computing power per available
   volume). Moreover, the axial arrangement of internal components can optimize an
   amount of heat that can be transferred from the internal components to a central
   structural heat sink and then to a central airflow (not shown) that passes through the
25 central structural heat sink as well as from internal components to a peripheral airflow
   214 that passes across the internal components. For example, one or more memory
   modules 216, e.g., dual inline memory modules (DIMMs), can be constructed from a
   substrate on which are mounted multiple memory chips. The memory modules 216
   can be arranged along a major axis 210 of the compact computing system 100 parallel
30 to the peripheral airflow 214, which can pass across the multiple memory chips
   contained thereon. In order to optimize heat transfer from the memory chips to the
   peripheral airflow 214, the memory chips, in some embodiments, can be mounted
   onto an underlying substrate in a manner that aligns with the peripheral airflow 214.
   In this way, an efficient thermal transfer interface can be formed between the
                                              16

   1002139969
   peripheral airflow 214, which flows inside the external housing 102, and the memory
   modules 216.
   [00701       In an embodiment, the central core 200 of internal components can
   include an exhaust assembly 218, which can include an air mover assembly (not
 5 shown), disposed in close proximity to the outlet/handle 106 of the external housing
   102, and which can provide an exit path for an exhaust airflow 204. The air mover
   assembly of the exhaust assembly 218 can combine a central airflow (not shown),
   which passes through a central structural heat sink of the central core 200 of internal
   components, and the peripheral airflow 214, which passes over internal component
10 boards and other internal components, to form the exhaust airflow 204. The exhaust
   assembly 218 can direct the exhaust airflow 204 toward the outlet/handle 106, and at
   least part of the outlet/handle 106 can intercept a portion of the exhaust airflow 204 in
   a manner that facilitates the transfer of thermal energy generated by internal
   components of the compact computing system 100 to the external housing 102. A
15 cosmetic shield 202 can be used to cover operational components contained in the
   exhaust assembly 218, such as radio frequency (RF) processing circuitry and one or
   more antennas located on top of the exhaust assembly 218. The cosmetic shield 202
   can be formed of an RF transparent material such as plastic, ceramic, or glass.
   [0071]      Due to the electrically conductive nature of the external housing 102, it
20 can be preferred to use the external housing 102 as a chassis ground to provide a good
   electrical ground for internal components of the compact computing system 100.
   Accordingly, a set of vertical touch points 212 on an input/output subassembly cover
   adjacent to the interface panel 110 can be formed of a conductive material and can be
   used to form a conductive path between internal components of the compact
25 computing system 100 and a matching set of vertical conductive patches on the
   interior surface of the external housing 102. To form a good electrical connection,
   portions of the external housing 102 that contact the vertical touch points 212 can be
   masked and/or laser etched during a manufacturing process to ensure the portions that
   contact the vertical touch points 212 are devoid of any non-conductive or insulating
30 material (such as aluminum oxide). When the external housing 102 includes an
   aluminum oxide layer formed thereon, selected portions of the aluminum oxide can be
   removed to expose the underlying electrically conductive bulk material in locations
   that come into contact with the vertical touch points 212.
                                             17

   1002139969
   [0072]      In addition to providing a chassis ground, the external housing 102 can be
   used in conjunction with the inlet/base 104 and the exhaust assembly 218 to prevent
   leakage of electromagnetic energy to and from the internal components of the
   compact computing system 100 by forming a Faraday cage. A contact surface 206 of
 5 the exhaust assembly 218 can be masked or laser etched during a manufacturing
   process to form an electrically conductive contact surface 206 that can contact an
   electrically conductive gasket positioned inside of the external housing 102.      The
   electrically conductive gasket of the external housing 102 can contact the electrically
   conductive contact surface 206 of the exhaust assembly 218 when the external
10 housing 102 is properly placed over the internal components of the compact
   computing system 100 and positioned to enclose the internal components in a securely
   latched position. The external housing 102 can also include an electrically conductive
   region on the bottom surface of the external housing 102, which can contact an
   electrically conductive bottom gasket 208 mounted on (or formed as an integral part
15 of) the inlet/base 104.    In addition, portions of an input/output (I/O) subassembly
   cover, which can include, embedded within, the interface panel 110, can include bare
   metal regions that can also contact directly to corresponding bare metal regions of the
   inlet/base 104 and/or the exhaust assembly 218.         Select portions of the internal
   structural core/heat sink, in some embodiments, can also contact the inlet/base 104
20 and the exhaust assembly 218 when the internal components of the compact
   computing system 100 are properly assembled.
   [0073]      An effective Faraday cage for the compact computing system can be
   formed using a combination of the following: (1) an electrically conductive ring
   formed between the contact surface 206 of the exhaust assembly 218 and a gasket (not
25 shown) mounted in the interior of the external housing 102, (2) an electrically
   conductive ring formed between the bottom gasket 208 of the inlet/base 104 and the
   bottom of the external housing 102, (3) one or more arc shaped electrically conductive
   regions along the bottom interior surface of an input/output (I/O) subassembly cover
   in contact with matching electrically conductive arc shaped regions along a surface of
30 the inlet/base 104, (4) one or more electrically conductive arc shaped regions along a
   surface of the exhaust assembly 218 in contact with matching electrically conductive
   arc shaped regions along the interior surface of the top of the I/O subassembly cover,
   and (5) vertical touch points 212 in contact with matching vertical regions along the
   interior surface of the external housing 102.     In addition, mounting points on the
                                            18

   1002139969
   central structural core/heat sink can be electrically in contact with the inlet/base 104
   and with the exhaust assembly 218.
   [0074]      FIG. 3 illustrates an exploded view 300 of the central core 200 of internal
   components of the compact computing system 100 in accordance with some
 5 embodiments. The central core 200 of internal components can be formed around a
   structural core/heat sink 310, which can serve as a structural core to which internal
   component boards can be mounted. In an embodiment, the structural core/heat sink
   310 can be shaped as a triangle, e.g., an isosceles triangle having two equal length
   sides and a third longer side, extended in some embodiments at each corner to form
10 structural standoff elements. Cooling fins 311 can fan out from an inside surface of
   the longer side to inside surfaces of the two equal sides. In one embodiment, a central
   cooling fin can bisect the triangular central volume defined by sides of the structural
   core/heat sink 310 forming two similar triangular regions. In one embodiment, other
   cooling fins can extend from the longer side to the other sides at an angle related to a
15 distance from the center cooling fin.       In this way, the cooling fins can form a
   symmetric cooling assembly within the triangular central volume.          The structural
   core/heat sink 310 can include three vertical stanchions 314 that vertically span a
   portion of the interior of the external housing 102 of the compact computing system
   100. Between each pair of vertical stanchions 314 a face of the structural core/heat
20 sink 310 can span a portion of a chord that stretches horizontally across the interior of
   the external housing 102 of the compact computing system 100. On each of the three
   faces of the triangular structural core/heat sink 310, a vapor chamber assembly 312
   can be positioned to contact the surface of the face of the structural core/heat sink
   310. In a representative embodiment, a portion of each face of the structural core/heat
25 sink 310 can be removed to form a cavity in which can be inlaid with the vapor
   chamber assembly 312.        In some embodiments, the structural core/heat sink 310
   and/or the vapor chamber assembly 312 can include mount points by which to attach
   internal component boards. The internal component boards can include one or more
   computational processing units, graphical processing units, and/or memory units
30 which can transfer heat generated therein to the structural core/heat sink 310 through
   the vapor chamber assembly 312.
   [0075]      In a representative embodiment, two faces of the structural core/heat sink
   310 can be sized in accordance with a form factor used for graphics processing unit
   (GPU) boards 306 that can be mounted thereto.        In a representative embodiment, a
                                             19

   1002139969
   third face of the structural core/heat sink 310 can be sized in accordance with a form
   factor used for a central processing unit (CPU) board 318 that can be mounted thereto.
   In an embodiment, the structural core/heat sink 310 can be formed approximately in
   the shape of an isosceles triangle having two faces of an equal width on which to
 5 mount two GPU boards 306 and a third face having a longer width on which to mount
   the one CPU board 318. In some embodiments, the longer width of the face of the
   structural core/heat sink 310 on which mounts the CPU board 318 can determine a
   diameter of the cylindrical central core 300 of internal components, and thereby
   substantially determine a diameter for the external housing 102 as well as for the
10 assembled compact computing system 100.
   [0076]       In an embodiment, each GPU board 306 can be mounted to the structural
   core/heat sink 310 with the GPU and surrounding video memory facing (and in
   thermal contact with) the structural core/heat sink 310, e.g., through a corresponding
   vapor chamber assembly 312 mounted on and/or embedded in the structural core/heat
15 sink 310. In an embodiment, a solid state drive 308 can be mounted on an outward
   facing side of one or both GPU board(s) 306, in a space between the external housing
   102 and the GPU board 306. In an embodiment, the solid state drive 308 can be
   arranged as a vertical set of components along the vertical major axis 210 of the
   compact computing system and can be positioned centrally along the width of the
20 GPU board 306 in a region having the widest space between the outer housing 102
   and the GPU board 306. The arrangement and placement of the solid state drive 308
   can be determined to maximize an amount of airflow passing across the solid state
   drive 306. In an embodiment, a CPU board 318 can be mounted to the structural
   core/heat sink 310 with the CPU facing (and in thermal contact with) the structural
25 core/heat sink 310, e.g., through direct contact with a vapor chamber assembly 312
   mounted on and/or embedded in the face of the structural core/heat sink 310.
   [0077]       In an embodiment, full size dual inline memory modules (DIMMs) that
   support the CPU can be positioned in DIMM mechanisms 320 mounted on an
   outward facing side of the CPU board 318 (on the opposite side of the CPU board 318
30 on which the CPU and CPU socket is placed). The DIMM mechanisms 320 can be
   tilted into a locked position that angles the DIMMs toward the interior of the central
   core 200 of components in the direction of the CPU, e.g., toward a vertical centerline
   of the CPU board 318.        The DIMM mechanisms 320 can also be tilted into an
   unlocked position that angles the DIMMs away from the interior of the central core
                                             20

   1002139969
   200 of internal components, e.g., away from the CPU and in the direction of the
   external housing 102. In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanisms 320 can restrict a
   user from inserting and/or removing the DIMMs when in the locked position and
   permit the user to insert and/or remove the DIMMs when in the unlocked position.
 5 The DIMM mechanism 320 can angle the DIMMs within a circle bounded by the
   exterior housing 102 when in the locked position and position the DIMMs at least
   partially outside the circle when in the unlocked position to provide access for DIMM
   insertion and removal by the user of the compact computing system 100.
   [0078]       The CPU board 318 and the GPU boards 306 can be connected to each
10 other and/or to an I/O board 324 through an interconnect board 316, which can also be
   referred to as a main logic board (MLB) in some embodiments. In an embodiment,
   the CPU board 318 can be connected to the interconnect board 316 through a double
   row edge connector to a matching socket mounted centrally on the interconnect board
   316. The connection of the CPU board 318 through the double edge row connector
15 can provide a compact arrangement within the central core 200 of components of the
   compact computing system 100. In an embodiment, the GPU board(s) 306 can be
   connected to the interconnect board 316 through wide bandwidth flex connectors
   (e.g., flex cables).
   [0079]       In some embodiments, the wide bandwidth flex connectors can also
20 function as baffles to direct at least a portion of airflow incoming from the inlet/base
   104 to bifurcate and spread across the surface of the GPU board(s) 306. Adjacent to
   the CPU board 306, a power supply unit (PSU) 322 can be positioned between the
   DIMM mechanisms 320. In and embodiment, a cross section of the PSU is shaped as
   a trapezoid to fit compactly between the DIMM mechanisms 320, the CPU board 318,
25 and an 11O board 324.       In an embodiment, an external AC power source can be
   connected through the interface panel 110 and through the I/O board 324 to the PSU
   322, which can convert the AC power to one or more DC voltages. The DC power
   from the PSU 322 can be connected to the GPU board(s) 306 and/or the CPU board
   318 through thin, flexible, flat, copper bus bars.         The I/O board 324 can be
30 mechanically connected to the PSU 322 and/or to the I/O subassembly cover 326
   through which the interface panel 110 can connect the internal core 300 of the
   compact computing system 100 to the external world. The I/O board 326 can provide
   numerous high-speed interfaces for the compact computing system 100 through a
   common high bandwidth flex connector connected to the interconnect board 316,
                                             21

   1002139969
   which in turn can connect by additional high bandwidth connectors to the CPU board
   318 and GPU board(s) 306. The arrangement of component boards and other units
   illustrated in FIG. 3 provides for a maximally dense computational core of
   components thermally coupled to a large structural core/heat sink 310 for the compact
 5 computing system 100.
   [0080]      In some embodiments, the structural core/heat sink 310 can be connected
   mechanically to a top mounted exhaust assembly 218, which can include an impeller
   304 and a plenum plate 328 connected to exhaust assembly 218 through which the
   exhaust airflow 204 can be drawn. In an embodiment, the exhaust assembly 218 can
10 include a wireless subsystem 302 mounted within a cavity embedded in a top surface
   of the exhaust assembly 218 and capped by the cosmetic shield 202.            In some
   embodiments, mount points on the vertical stanchions 314 of the structural core/heat
   sink 310 can electrically couple the top mounted exhaust assembly 218 to the
   structural core/heat sink 310. The structural core/heat sink 310 can also be connected
15 mechanically to a bottom-mounted inlet/base 104.          In some embodiments, mount
   points on the vertical stanchions 314 of the structural core/heat sink 310 can
   electrically couple the inlet/base 104 to the central core/heat sink 310.
   [0081]      FIG. 4 illustrates a front view of a first side 400 of the CPU board 318
   including a centrally mounted CPU 402 flanked on either side by vertical DIMM
20 mechanisms 320 mounted on the opposite side of the CPU board 318.             In some
   embodiments, the CPU 402 is mechanically and electrically coupled to the CPU board
   318 by low profile thermal module 404 that cooperates with a flexible high strength
   spring mechanism (illustrated as spring 502 in FIGs. 5-7) to compress CPU 402 into a
   socket disposed beneath CPU 402. Fasteners disposed through openings 406 in CPU
25 board 318 and engaged within threaded apertures of low profile thermal module 404
   allow the compression of the CPU 402 into the socket. The low profile thermal
   module 404 is described in more detail in FIG. 7. The spring mechanism can be
   disposed on the other side of the CPU board 318 opposite of the CPU 402. The CPU
   board 318 can have one or more openings 408 through which fasteners (illustrated as
30 fasteners 504 in FIG. 5) can engage attachment points disposed on the structural
   core/heat sink 310 thereby coupling CPU board 318 to the structural core/heat sink
   310. As described in more detail in FIG. 5, the spring mechanism can have openings
   corresponding to openings 408 that allow fasteners to be driven through both the
   spring mechanism and CPU board 318.
                                             22

   1002139969
   [0082]      In some embodiments, a layout of the CPU board 318 provides a high
   bandwidth data path through a double row edge connector at the base of the CPU
   board 318, e.g., illustrated as CPU board edge connector 410 in FIG. 4. As illustrated
   in FIG. 4, DC power for the CPU board 318 can be provided through one or more DC
 5 inputs 412 arranged on a top edge of the CPU board 318. In an embodiment, one or
   more flat copper interconnecting bus bars connect the DC inputs 412 of the CPU
   board 318 to the PSU 322. In an embodiment, a DC/DC regulation section 414 on the
   CPU board 318 can regulate and/or convert the DC power provided through the DC
   inputs 412 to provide a set of stable DC voltages as required for the computational
10 components mounted on the CPU board 318, including at least memories mounted in
   the DIMM mechanisms 320 and the CPU 402. By arranging the layout of the CPU
   board 318 with the DC power flowing from the top edge and the high-speed digital
   data input/output from the bottom edge, a compact efficient CPU board 318 can be
   achieved.    In an embodiment, the bottom edge of the CPU board 318 includes a
15 double row CPU board edge connector 410 through which the high-speed digital data
   input/output flows to a mating socket mounted on the interconnect board 316.
   [0083]      In some embodiments, the DIMM mechanisms 320 include memory
   module sockets that are press fit connected to the CPU board 318, e.g., in order to not
   require the use of surface mount technology (SMT) on both sides of the CPU board
20 318 simultaneously. In an embodiment, some or all of the components of the CPU
   board 318, e.g., the DC/DC regulation section 414, are arranged to promote airflow in
   a vertical direction from the CPU board edge connector 410 on the bottom across the
   CPU 402 and memories in the DIMM mechanisms 320 through the DC/DC regulation
   section 414 to a top mounted air mover assembly (not shown). As illustrated, the CPU
25 402 can be mounted on one side of the CPU board 318 oriented to contact the vapor
   chamber assembly 312 attached to the structural core/heat sink 310. In order for the
   memory modules to be serviceable without removal of the CPU board 318 from being
   attached to the structural core/heat sink 310, the DIMM mechanisms 320 can be
   mounted on the side of the CPU board 318 opposite the CPU 402. As described
30 above, in some embodiments, the DIMM mechanisms 320 can include a tilt and lock
   feature that angles the memory modules contained therein toward the interior of the
   compact computing system 100 when in the locked position and angles the memory
   modules outward to permit user accessibility when in the unlocked position.
                                           23

   1002139969
   [0084]       FIG. 5 illustrates a front view of a second side 500 of the CPU board 318
   including a portion of a CPU spring 502 flanked by DIMM mechanisms 320 on a left
   side and a right side of the CPU board 318. The CPU spring 502, in some
   embodiments, can provide for attaching the CPU 402 to the socket and/or to the
 5 structural core/heat sink 310 through one or more attachment points, e.g. mounted on
   and/or integral with the structural core/heat sink 310 and/or the vapor chamber
   assembly 312 attached thereto.       Force can be applied by fasteners 504 and 506 along
   CPU spring 502 to flatten it against the second side of CPU board 318 as depicted.
   [0085]       In some embodiments, the CPU spring 502 can include flexible metal
10 bands 508 that provide the force for seating the CPU 402 into the socket. The CPU
   spring 502 can also include flexible metal bands 510 that allow the CPU board 318 to
   be coupled to the vapor chamber assembly 312, thereby regulating an amount of force
   that is exerted when mounting the CPU board 318 to the structural core/heat sink 310.
   In some embodiment, flexible metal bands 510 can cause about 30 pounds of force to
15 be exerted when mounting CPU board 318 to vapor chamber assembly 312. Flexible
   metal bands 510 can also be used to help keep CPU 402 seated in the socket. When
   the CPU board 318 is fastened to the vapor chamber assembly 312, a raised portion of
   the CPU 402 can also be compressed when flexible metal bands exert the force upon
   the CPU board 318 through backer plate 509, thereby causing the CPU 402 to be
20 pressed directly against a surface of the vapor chamber assembly 312. It should be
   noted that fasteners 506 can extend only into low profile thermal module 404,
   allowing the CPU spring 502 to securely seat CPU 402 in the socket prior to installing
   CPU board 318 to the structural core/heat sink 310 with fasteners 504.
   [0086]       In some embodiments, the CPU spring 502 can be formed as two separate
25 structural units (1) to press the CPU 402 into the socket 604 and (2) to compress the
   CPU 402 against the vapor chamber assembly 312. In some embodiments, the CPU
   spring 502 can be formed as a single structure performing both functions, e.g., as
   illustrated in FIG. 5.
   [0087]       In an embodiment, the CPU board 318 includes one or more DIMM
30 connector sockets mounted on the second side 500 of the CPU board 318 opposite to
   the first side 400 on which the CPU 402 can be mounted.            In an embodiment, the
   DIMM connector sockets are mounted using press fit connectors (instead of
   connectors that require surface mount technology).        In an embodiment, the DIMM
   connector sockets accept full size DIMMs.          As illustrated in FIG. 5, the DIMMs
                                              24

   1002139969
   connector sockets can be mounted along the major axis 210 of the central core 200 of
   internal components of the compact computing system 100, which can provide for
   orienting the DIMMs to align with the peripheral airflow 214 substantially along their
   entire length.    In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanisms 320 provide for tilting
 5 toward the center of the CPU board 318 into a locked position for use when the
   compact computing system 100 is operational and for tilting away from the center of
   the CPU board 318 into an unlocked position for use when a user of the compact
   computing system (or a service technician) inserts, replaces, and/or removes the
   DIMMs from the DIMM connector sockets.
10 [0088]       FIG. 6 illustrates a top view of the CPU board 318 mounted to the
   structural core/heat sink 310 of the central core 200 of internal components of the
   compact computing system 100. Between each pair of vertical stanchions 314 of the
   structural core/heat sink 310, a vapor chamber assembly 312 can be mounted to a face
   of the structural core/heat sink 310. In a representative embodiment, the CPU board
15 318 can be attached to the structural core/heat sink 310 through a set of attachment
   points 602 that project through (and/or are integral with) the vapor chamber assembly
   312 along the face of the structural core/heat sink 310. Fasteners 504 can be driven
   through the CPU spring 502 and openings 408 of CPU board 318 to engage
   attachment points 602. In conjunction with CPU spring 502, fasteners 504 can apply a
20 force that both establishes a robust thermal contact between a raised portion of the
   CPU 402 and vapor chamber assembly 312 and securely attaches the CPU board 318
   to the structural core/heat sink 310.
   [0089]       As described above, DC power can be supplied to the CPU board 318
   through one or more connectors (DC inputs 412) located at the top edge of the CPU
25 board 318. In an embodiment, the DC inputs 412 can be located on the top edge of
   the CPU board 318 opposite to the bottom edge of the CPU board 318 that can
   include a high-speed edge connector through which high-speed data can be
   communicated to the interconnect board 316. On the left and right edges of the CPU
   board 318, two DIMM mechanisms 320 can be mounted on the side of the CPU board
30 318 facing away from the structural core/heat sink 310 (and therefore on the opposite
   side of the board from the CPU 402.) The DIMM mechanisms 320 can provide for
   guiding and holding in place one or more memory modules 216, e.g., full size
   DIMMs. In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanisms 320 can be tilted inward toward
   the center of the CPU board 318 when in a locked position (e.g., when the compact
                                            25

   1002139969
   computing system 100 is assembled and operational) and can be tilted outward away
   from the center of the CPU board 318 in an unlocked position (e.g., when providing
   for insertion and/or removal of the memory modules 216 from the DIMM sockets and
   DIMM mechanisms 320).
 5 [00901       In one embodiment, a cooling fin (referred to as center cooling fin 311-1)
   can extend from first planar face 610 to a junction of second planar face 612 and third
   planar face 614. In this way, the triangular central volume defined by heat sink 310 is
   bisected into first region I and second region II each having similar right triangular
   cross sections. In one embodiment, first cooling fin 311-2 spanning region I can be at
10 first angle 01 with respect to first planar face 610.       First angle 01 can have an
   angular value that varies in accordance with a distance Xi between first cooling fin
   311-2 and central cooling fin 311-1.      Similarly, second cooling fin 311-3 spanning
   region II can be at first angle 02 with respect to first planar face 610.       Second
   angle 02 can have an angular value that also varies in accordance with a distance X2
15 between second cooling fin 311-3 and central cooling fin 311-1. Generally speaking,
   distance Xi and distance X2 are about equal, however, the number of cooling fins
   actually implemented in either regions I or II can vary as required for a particular
   design as can the various geometric relationships. In one embodiment, a summation
   of first angle 01 and second angle 02 can be about 1800.
20 [0091]      FIG. 7 illustrates a cross sectional view 700 of the CPU board 318
   mounted to the structural core/heat sink 310 of the compact computing system 100 in
   accordance with some embodiments. The cross-sectional view 700 of the CPU board
   318 can correspond to a section line A-A depicted in FIG. 5 through at least a portion
   of the central core 200 of components of the compact computing system 100. FIG. 7
25 depicts how the CPU 402 can be secured to socket 604 using low profile thermal
   module 404. In some embodiments, low profile thermal module 404 can have an
   opening having a size in accordance with a raised portion of the CPU 402. In this
   regard, the raised portion can pass through the opening of low profile thermal module
   404 so that it can be in direct thermal contact with the vapor chamber assembly 312.
30 [0092]      In this regard, in addition to seating CPU 402, low profile thermal module
   404 can have threaded apertures into which fasteners 506 can be engaged. Fasteners
   506 can pass through openings 406 of CPU board 318, openings in spring 502 to
   engage the threaded apertures in low profile thermal module 404.
                                              26

   1002139969
   [0093]      FIG. 8 illustrates a view of a first side 800 of a graphics processing unit
   (GPU) board in accordance with some embodiments. A GPU 802 can be centrally
   mounted on the GPU board 306, and one or more video random access memory
   (VRAM) 804 units can be positioned symmetrically about the GPU 802.                In a
 5 representative embodiment, the GPU 802 and the VRAM 804 can be mounted on the
   same side of the GPU board 306, which can be placed in contact with the vapor
   chamber assembly 312 embedded within a face of the structural core/heat sink 310.
   In an embodiment, a GPU thermal module spring can compress the GPU 802 against
   the vapor chamber assembly 312, providing thermal coupling of the GPU 802 to the
10 structural core/heat sink 310, when the GPU board 306 is mounted to the structural
   core/heat sink 310 through a set of attachment points 602. In some embodiments, the
   VRAM 804 can also contact the vapor chamber assembly 312 to provide a thermal
   conduction path to the structural core/heat sink 310 when the GPU board 306 is
   attached thereto. In an embodiment, the layout of VRAM 804 around the GPU 802
15 can arrange the VRAM 804 to permit approximately equal airflow across and/or
   adjacent to the VRAM 804 when the GPU board 306 is attached to the structural
   core/heat sink 310.
   [0094]      In an embodiment, the GPU board 306 can include one or more power
   connection points (indicated in FIG. 8 as GPU DC inputs 806) at the top edge of the
20 GPU board 306 through which DC power can be supplied from the PSU 322. As
   described above for the CPU board 318, the GPU board 306 can include DC/DC
   power regulation at a top edge of the GPU board 306 and a high-speed digital data
   connection from the bottom edge of the GPU board 306. In an embodiment, the GPU
   board 306 can connect to the interconnect board 316 through a high-speed flex
25 connector. In some embodiments, the high-speed flex connector also provides an air
   baffle to bifurcate airflow from the inlet/base 104 into a central airflow through the
   structural core/heat sink 310 and the peripheral airflow 214 across the surface of the
   internal component boards.      In an embodiment, the high-speed flex connector also
   spreads the peripheral airflow 214 to provide airflow along the outer sections of the
30 GPU board 306, e.g., across and/or adjacent to the VRAM 804.
   [0095]      FIG. 9 illustrates a second side 900 of the GPU board 306 in accordance
   with some embodiments. As described above, the GPU board 306 can be mounted
   with the GPU 802 and VRAM 804 facing toward and in thermal contact with the
   structural core/heat sink 310, e.g., using attachment points 602 that are connected to
                                            27

   1002139969
   and/or an integral part of the structural core/heat sink 310 and/or the vapor chamber
   assembly 312. In an embodiment, a GPU thermal module spring 902 can be used at
   least in part to attach the GPU board 306 to the structural core/heat sink 310 by the
   attachment points 602. In an embodiment, the GPU thermal module spring 902 can
 5 compress the GPU 802 against the vapor chamber assembly 312 to provide positive
   thermal contact between the GPU 802 and the structural core/heat sink 310, e.g.,
   through the vapor chamber assembly 312 mounted on and/or embedded in the face of
   the structural core/heat sink 310.
   [0096]      In some embodiments, the GPU thermal module spring 902 can also cause
10 all or a portion of the VRAM 804 adjacent to the GPU 802 to contact the vapor
   chamber assembly 312, thereby providing thermal contact for cooling of the VRAM
   804. In some embodiments, the GPU board 306 can be provided one or more DC
   voltages through one or more GPU DC inputs 806 located at a top edge of the GPU
   board 306. In some embodiments, a DC/DC regulation section 414 can regulate and
15 convert the one or more DC voltages to provide DC power to the components of the
   GPU board 306. In an embodiment, the GPU board 306 can include a GPU rigid flex
   connector socket 904 located along a bottom edge, (opposite of the top edge to which
   the DC power can be supplied), through which a high-speed flex connector can
   communicate data to the interconnect board 316. In some embodiments, a solid state
20 drive (SSD) 308 can be mounted along the major axis 210 of the GPU board 306 in
   the center (side to side) of the GPU board 306 across the back side of the GPU 802
   and spanning the GPU thermal module spring 902, as illustrated in FIG. 9. In an
   embodiment, a layout of components on the GPU board 306 can place taller
   components toward a central middle line (top to bottom) of the GPU board 306 and
25 shorter components toward the outer sides of the GPU board 306.
   [0097]      In some embodiments, multiple components of the GPU board 306 can be
   stacked along a central major axis 210 of the GPU board 306 (e.g., GPU 802, GPU
   thermal module spring 902, and SSD 308) in a region of the interior of the compact
   computing system that can accommodate a greater height of components than
30 adjacent regions. In some embodiments, the GPU board 306, when mounted to the
   structural core/heat sink 310 and placed on the inlet/base 104 within the external
   housing 102, can form a segment of a chord across the interior of the external housing
   102, with a larger volume available for component placement along the middle of the
   segment of the chord and a smaller volume available for component placement along
                                            28

   1002139969
   the outer portions of the segment of the chord. In some embodiments, component
   placement on the GPU board 306 can be arranged to accommodate the volume
   constraints imposed by the position of the GPU board 306 relative to the external
   housing 102.
 5 [0098]      FIG. 10 illustrates a cross sectional view 1000 of the GPU board 306
   mounted to the structural core/heat sink 310 of the compact computing system 100 in
   accordance with some embodiments. The cross sectional view 1000 can correspond
   in some embodiments, to a view that cuts along line B indicated in FIG. 9 through at
   least a portion of the central core 200 of components of the compact computing
10 system 100. The GPU board 306 can be mounted to a face of the structural core/heat
   sink 310 with the GPU 802 contacting a surface of the vapor chamber assembly 312,
   which can be attached to and/or embedded in the face of the structural core/heat sink
   310. The GPU thermal module spring 902, in an embodiment, can compress the GPU
   802 against the vapor chamber assembly 312. In an embodiment, the GPU board 306
15 can attach to the structural core/heat sink 310 through a set of attachment points 602
   that protrude from the structural core/heat sink. In an embodiment, separate GPU
   boards 306 can be mounted to each of two faces of the structural core/heat sink 310,
   and the CPU board 318 can mount to a third face of the structural core/heat sink 310.
   In an embodiment, the solid state drive 308 can mount across the GPU thermal
20 module spring 902 on side of the GPU board 306 opposite to the side on which the
   GPU 802 can be mounted.
   [0099]      FIG. 11 illustrates a perspective view 1100 of the CPU board 318 that
   includes DIMM mechanisms 320 attached thereto in accordance with some
   embodiments. In an embodiment, the CPU board 318 includes a CPU 402 mounted
25 on a side opposite the CPU spring 502 illustrated in FIG. 11. In an embodiment, the
   DIMM mechanisms 320 and the CPU 402 are mounted on opposite sides of the CPU
   board 318. In an embodiment, DC power is supplied through one or more DC inputs
   412 at a top edge of the board above the CPU 402, and high-speed digital signals are
   communicated through a bottom edge of the board below the CPU 402, e.g., through
30 the CPU board edge connector 410. In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanism 320
   provides a guide, torsional support, a tilting function, and a lock/unlock function for
   memory modules 216 installed therein. In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanism
   320 includes a DIMM mechanism actuator 1104, which the user can engage to tilt, to
   lock, and to unlock the DIMM mechanism 320. It should be noted that although
                                             29

   1002139969
   actuator 1104 is hereinafter referred to as button 1104, it is contemplated that any type
   of mechanism suitable for actuating DIMM mechanism 320 is possible.
   [0100]       In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanism 320 includes guides to seat the
   memory modules 216 into a DIMM connector base 1102 mounted to the CPU board
 5 318.    In an embodiment, the DIMM connector base 1102 is mounted to the CPU
   board 318 as a press fit connector. In an embodiment, the user can engage the DIMM
   mechanism 320 by pushing on the DIMM mechanism button 1104 to switch the
   DIMM mechanism 320 from an unlocked (tilted outward) position to a locked (tilted
   inward) position, e.g., to lock the memory securely in sockets in the DIMM connector
10 base 1102. The user can also engage the DIMM mechanism 320 by pushing on the
   DIMM mechanism button 1104 to switch the DIMM mechanism 320 from the locked
   position to an unlocked position, e.g., in order to remove, replace, or install memory
   modules 216 in the DIMM mechanism 320.                In an embodiment, the DIMM
   mechanism 320 provides for a short over-travel distance when a user presses the
15 DIMM mechanism button 1104 and the DIMM mechanism 320 is in the locked
   position. In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanism 320 provides for a spring-loaded
   action to tilt the DIMM mechanism 320 from the inward locked position to an
   outward unlocked position after the user presses the DIMM mechanism button 1104.
   [0101]       FIG. 12 illustrates another perspective view 1200 of the CPU board 318
20 that includes DIMM mechanisms 320 attached thereto in accordance with some
   embodiments. The DIMM mechanisms 320 illustrated in FIG. 11 are populated with
   memory modules 216 installed, while the DIMM mechanisms 320 illustrated in FIG.
   12 are empty, with no memory modules 216 installed. The DIMM mechanism 320
   can include a torsion bar 1202 that links the two ends of the DIMM mechanism 320
25 together and provides for force applied to one end of the DIMM mechanism 320, e.g.,
   to the DIMM mechanism button 1104, to transfer and apply to the other end of the
   DIMM mechanism 320. The DIMM mechanism 320 can also include DIMM guides
   1204 that assist the user to properly align and seat the memory modules 216 when
   inserting into the DIMM mechanism 320 to connect with the DIMM connector base
30 1102. In some embodiments, the DIMM mechanism 320 can accommodate memory
   modules 216 that are "full size" DIMMs having a length of approximately 133mm,
   (e.g., as used in desktop personal computers).
   [0102]       In an embodiment, the DIMM mechanism 320 can accept insertion of the
   memory modules 216 at an acute angle (not perpendicular) to the DIMM connector
                                             30

   1002139969
   base 1102. In some embodiments, a user can insert a memory module 216 into the
   DIMM mechanism 320 at an acute angle in an unlocked position and rotate the
   DIMM mechanism 320 into a locked position by pressing at one side of the DIMM
   mechanism 320, e.g., on the DIMM mechanism button 1104. In some embodiments,
 5 the torsion bar 1202 of the DIMM mechanism 320 transfers at least a portion of a
   force exerted by the user on one end of the DIMM mechanism 320, e.g., by pressing
   the DIMM mechanism button 1104, to an opposite end of the DIMM mechanism 320,
   e.g., to assist in rotating, locking, positioning, and/or actuating the full length DIMM
   in a socket of the DIMM connector base 1102.
10 [0103]       FIG. 13A illustrates a front perspective view 1300 and a back perspective
   view 1310 of the DIMM mechanism 320 in accordance with some embodiments.
   Each end of the DIMM mechanism 320 can include a push/push DIMM lock
   mechanism 1302 that provides for angling the DIMM mechanism 320 (including the
   memory modules 216 installed therein) into an interior of the compact computing
15 system 100 when in a locked, operational position and angling at least a portion of the
   DIMM mechanism 320 outside a circular region bounded by the external housing 102
   when in an unlocked position for installation and removal of the memory modules
   216. Each end of the DIMM mechanism 320 connects to an opposing end of the
   DIMM mechanism 320 by the torsion bar 1202.
20 [0104]       One end of the DIMM mechanism 320 can include the DIMM mechanism
   button 1104, through which the user can press to tilt the DIMM mechanism 320 into a
   locked position or to release the DIMM mechanism 320 from a locked position into
   an unlocked position. In an embodiment, as the DIMM mechanism 320 tilts, the
   memory modules 216 contained therein also tilt. In some embodiments, a user can
25 press on one or multiple surfaces of the DIMM mechanism 320 to tilt the memory
   modules 216 into a locked position or into an unlocked position.                  In some
   embodiments, a user can press on a surface of the memory module 216 to tilt the
   DIMM mechanism 326 (and the memory modules 216 contained therein) into a
   locked position or to release a latch and tilt the DIMM mechanism 326 (and the
30 memory modules 216 contained therein) into an unlocked position.                  In some
   embodiments, "lock" and "unlock" (and other forms of these words) can also be
   referred to as "latch" and "unlatch" (as well as other synonymous words).
   [0105]       FIGs. 13B and 13C illustrates another embodiment of a dual inline
   memory module (DIMM) mechanism.                More specifically, FIG. 13B shows front
                                               31

   1002139969
   perspective view of DIMM mechanism 1320 in a closed, or latched, configuration
   whereas FIG. 13C shows DIMM mechanism 1320 in an open, or unlatched,
   configuration. In an embodiment, in the unlocked position, the memory modules 216
   positioned within the DIMM mechanism 1320 are substantially perpendicular to the
 5 printed circuit board to which the DIMM mechanism 1320 can be attached through
   the DIMM connector base 1102.        In this embodiment, DIMM mechanism 1320 can
   include first actuator 1322 and second actuator 1324. In an embodiment, first actuator
   1322 and second actuator 1324 are configured to present an appearance of a single
   piece in keeping with presenting a clean and aesthetically pleasing appearance. In any
10 case, first actuator 1322 and second actuator 1324 are designed in such a way as to
   resist opening (unlatching) of DIMM mechanism 1320 in spite of a high shock load
   applied to housing 102. More specifically, unless acted upon in a specific manner,
   DIMM mechanism 1320 remains in the latched configuration thereby securing DIMM
   310 within.    Accordingly, DIMM mechanism 1320 can secure DIMM 310 in the
15 latched configuration whereas DIMM mechanism 1320 can render DIMM 310
   accessible and available for removal (or replacement) in the unlatched configuration.
   [0106]      As shown in FIG. 13B, first actuator 1322 and second actuator 1324 are
   co-planar with respect to each other presenting a compact, well defined, and
   aesthetically pleasing structure. In order to access and release DIMM 310 secured by
20 DIMM mechanism 1320 (or make DIMM mechanism 1320 available to receive a new
   or replacement DIMM), first force Fl can be applied directly to actuator 1322. In an
   embodiment, first force F1 must overcome a biasing force applied by a biasing
   member (shown in more detail in FIG. 15B) that causes first actuator 1322 to move
   about pivot 1326 causing DIMM locking mechanism 1328 to tilt from a locked
25 position as shown in FIG. 13B to an unlocked position shown in FIG. 13C. In an
   embodiment, as DIMM mechanism 1320 tilts, the memory modules 216 contained
   therein also tilt providing easy user access that facilitates removal or insertion of
   memory modules 216. It should also be noted, that as locking mechanism 1328 tilts
   from the latched to the unlatched position (and vice versa), second actuator 1324
30 moves in such a way that an orientation of second actuator 1324 in the latched and
   unlatched configuration remain essentially unchanged with respect to DIMM base
   1102. In this way, second actuator 1324 is well position for the user to apply latching
   force F2 to second actuator 1326 causing locking mechanism 1328 to tilt back to the
                                            32

   1002139969
   latched position and first actuator 1322 to undergo a second movement around pivot
   1326.
   [0107]       FIG. 14 illustrates a front perspective view 1400 and a back perspective
   view 1410 of an end of the DIMM mechanism 320 that includes the DIMM
 5 mechanism button 1104 in accordance with some embodiments.                The DIMM
   mechanism 320 at each end can include a push/push DIMM lock mechanism 1302
   that includes multiple interconnected bars that form a movable linkage assembly. One
   end of the DIMM mechanism 320 can include the DIMM mechanism button 1104,
   and each end of the DIMM mechanism 320 can include DIMM guides 1204 to align
10 the memory modules 326 upon insertion.             In some embodiments, the DIMM
   mechanism 320 can block an improperly inserted memory module 216 from engaging
   with a socket in the DIMM connector base 1102.
   [0108]       In some embodiments, the DIMM mechanism 320 can reject an
   improperly inserted memory module 216.             In some embodiments, the DIMM
15 mechanism 320 can prevent a user from latching an improperly inserted memory
   module 216 into a locked position. In some embodiments, the DIMM mechanism 320
   can be not capable of latching into a locked position when a memory module 216 is
   improperly inserted therein.       In some embodiments, the DIMM guides 1204 can
   assist, at least in part, a user to insert a memory module 216 in a correct orientation
20 for properly engaging the DIMM mechanism 320. In some embodiments, the DIMM
   mechanism 320 includes retention features that hold the memory module 216 in a
   correct position when in the locked position. In some embodiments, one or more
   "hold down" features can translate into a position that retains the memory module 216
   in a proper position in the DIMM mechanism 320 when in a locked position.
25 [0109]       FIG. 15A illustrates a first end view 1500 of the DIMM mechanism 320 in
   which the push/push DIMM lock mechanism 1302 is oriented in an unlocked position
   and a second end view 1510 of the DIMM mechanism 320 in which the push/push
   DIMM lock mechanism 1302 is oriented in a locked position. In an embodiment, in
   the unlocked position, the memory modules 216 positioned within the DIMM
30 mechanism 320 are substantially perpendicular to the printed circuit board to which
   the DIMM mechanism 320 can be attached through the DIMM connector base 1102.
   In an embodiment, in the locked position, the memory modules 216 positioned within
   the DIMM mechanism 320 are tilted away from perpendicular and angled toward a
   central area of the printed circuit board to which the DIMM mechanism 320 can be
                                               33

   1002139969
   attached. In an embodiment, a user can push the DIMM mechanism button 1104 to
   tilt the DIMM mechanism 320 from the unlocked position 1500 into the locked
   position 1510.
   [0110]       In an embodiment, the push/push DIMM lock mechanism 1302 includes
 5 three parallel bars, each parallel bar connected to a fourth bar that crosses the three
   parallel bars. In an embodiment, the fourth crossing bar can be connected to one end
   of a first outside parallel bar and to an opposite end of a second outside parallel bar of
   the push/push DIMM lock mechanism 1302. In an embodiment, the fourth crossing
   bar also connects to an inside parallel bar, which is positioned between the two
10 outside parallel bars. In an embodiment, the fourth crossing bar includes an open
   region that allows the fourth crossing bar to travel with respect to the underlying three
   parallel bars as the push/push DIMM lock mechanism 1302 is engaged and
   disengaged, e.g., when changing from a locked position to an unlocked position. In
   an embodiment, the size of the open region of the fourth crossing bar can determine at
15 least in part an amount of movement between the unlocked position and the locked
   position of the DIMM mechanism 320.            In an embodiment, a spring latch (not
   indicated) can engage the push/push DIMM lock mechanism 1302 when in the locked
   position, and a user can push the DIMM mechanism button 1104 to unlock the
   push/push DIMM lock mechanism, which can "over travel" a short distance further
20 inward, thereby disengaging the spring latch and forcing the push/push DIMM lock
   mechanism 1302 to rotate outward as the fourth crossing bar rotates and slides until
   reaching an end of the open region. In an embodiment, an amount of "over travel"
   inward and an amount of travel outward by the push/push DIMM lock mechanism
   1302 can be determined at least in part by the length of the open region of the fourth
25 crossing bar.
   [0111]       FIGs. 15B - 15D are views of DIMM mechanism 1320 illustrating a
   manner in which (push/push) DIMM lock mechanism 1328 transitions from the
   latched (locked) orientation to the unlatched (unlocked) orientation.               More
   specifically, FIG. 15B shows DIMM mechanism 1320 in latched orientation 1502,
30 whereas FIG. 15C shows DIMM mechanism 1320 in a transitional orientation 1504 to
   better illustrate the kinematics of DIMM mechanism 1320 and finally FIG. 15D
   illustrating DIMM mechanism 1320 in an unlatched (or unlocked) orientation 1506.
   In an embodiment shown in FIG. 15B, DIMM locking mechanism 1328 is oriented in
   the latched position 1502 whereby surface 1508 of arm 1510 integrally formed with
                                              34

   1002139969
   first actuator 1322 is held in place against biasing force      Fbias provided by biasing
   mechanism 1512. In an embodiment, biasing mechanism 1512 can take the form of a
   spring. More specifically, biasing mechanism 1512 can take the form of a torsional
   spring configured to provide a torsional biasing force to DIMM locking mechanism
 5 1328.      More specifically, biasing force    Fbias  can be create a frictional coupling
   between surface 1508 of arm 1510 and surface 1514 of locking feature 1516 that is
   part of DIMM latching mechanism 1328.                It should be noted that the spatial
   relationship between surface 1508 and surface 1514 could be adjusted to customize a
   "feel" of DIMM mechanism 1320. It should be noted that foot 1516 could limit the
10 pivoting movement of first actuator about pivot 1326. In this way, first actuator 1322
   can be aligned with second actuator 1324 in such a way as to provide the appearance
   of a single part effected by first actuator 1322 and second actuator 1324 in the latched
   orientation.
   [0112]       As shown in FIG. 15C, as force Fl is applied to first actuator 1322, both
15 first actuator 1322 and first member 1518 move about pivot 1326. The movement of
   first member 1518 about pivot 1326 causes second member 1520 to translate both
   horizontally and vertically (by way of pin 1522 moving through slot 1524) resulting
   in second actuator 1324 translating horizontally and maintaining essentially an
   original orientation throughout the unlatching process. In other words, as shown in
20 FIG. 15D, a final position of second actuator 1324 is parallel to an initial position of
   second actuator 1324 with respect to DIMM base 1102. In this way, a user interaction
   with second actuator 1326 also remains essentially unchanged regardless of a current
   orientation (latched or unlatched) of DIMM mechanism 1320. It should also be noted
   that a spatial relationship between edges of surface 1508 and surface 1514 can be
25 adjusted in manner to customize a "snap" feeling when DIMM mechanism 1320
   moves from transitional orientation 1506 to unlatched orientation 1508 shown in FIG.
   15D.
   [0113]        It should be noted that the relative contours or surface 1504 and 1510 can
   be used to adjust a "feel" of DIMM mechanism 1302 during the unlatching process.
30 In the unlatched orientation, the memory modules 216 positioned within the DIMM
   mechanism 1320 are substantially perpendicular to the printed circuit board to which
   the DIMM mechanism 1320 can be attached through the DIMM connector base 1102.
   In an embodiment, in the locked position, the memory modules 216 positioned within
   the DIMM mechanism 1320 are tilted away from perpendicular and angled toward a
                                              35

   1002139969
   central area of the printed circuit board to which the DIMM mechanism 1320 can be
   attached.
   [0114]      FIG. 16 illustrates a top view 1600 of the wireless subsystem 302 of the
   compact computing system 100 in accordance with some embodiments.                In an
 5 embodiment one or more antennas 1604 are mounted inside air exhaust vents of the
   exhaust assembly housing 1602. In an embodiment, the one or more antennas 1604
   are arranged symmetrically about a center point of the exhaust assembly housing
   1602. Each antenna 1604 can be connected a corresponding antenna cable 1608 to
   wireless processing circuitry (not shown) mounted beneath a wireless processing
10 circuitry top cover 1606. In some embodiments, the wireless processing circuitry top
   cover 1606 is formed of an electrically conductive metal and can form in part a
   Faraday cage to shield the wireless processing circuitry from extraneous radio
   frequency interference or noise.
   [0115]      In some embodiments, a radio frequency transparent cosmetic shield 202
15 can cover the antenna assembly and wireless processing circuitry. In an embodiment,
   a ring of magnets embedded in the exhaust assembly housing 1602 can surround the
   antenna assembly and provide a magnetic attraction for a metallic ring mounted inside
   the radio frequency transparent cosmetic shield 202. In an embodiment, a number of
   conductive gaskets 1612 can be placed between the magnets 1610 to provide a
20 conductive path for radio frequency interference signals.      The magnets 1610 and
   conductive gaskets 1612 can be omitted in some embodiments, and the radio
   frequency transparent cosmetic shield 202 can be mechanically attached to the
   exhaust assembly housing 1602, e.g., formed of a pliable material that can be shaped
   to grip a portion of the exhaust assembly housing 1602 when assembled on the
25 compact computing system 100.          In an embodiment, the antennas 1604 can be
   positioned outside a set of impeller mount points 1614 to which the impeller 304
   attaches to the exhaust assembly housing 1602. In an embodiment, at least a portion
   of the impeller mount points and/or attachment mechanisms can be electrically
   conductive to ensure the impeller mount points 1614 are not freely floating metal
30 pieces in proximity to the radio frequency antennas 1604 of the wireless subsystem
   302.
   [0116]      FIG. 17 illustrates another top view 1700 of the wireless subsystem 302 of
   the compact computing system 100 in accordance with some embodiments. The top
   view 1700 in FIG. 17 illustrates wireless processing circuitry situated between the
                                             36

   1002139969
   impeller mount points 1614, which attach the impeller 304 within the exhaust
   assembly housing 1602. The top view 1700 in FIG. 17 resembles the top view 1600
   of FIG. 16 with the wireless processing circuitry top cover 1606 removed.          In an
   embodiment, one or more antennas 1604 can connect through associated antenna
 5 cables 1608 to individual wireless antenna connection points 1708 on a wireless
   processing circuitry board 1702, which can be sandwiched to a wireless interposer
   board 1704 between the impeller mount points 1604.
   [0117]      A wireless processing circuitry interconnect 1706 can include a flat,
   flexible cable that can communicate digital (and/or analog) signals from the wireless
10 processing circuitry board 1702 to another circuit board (not shown) of the compact
   computing system 100 for further processing.        The wireless processing circuitry
   interconnect 1706 can also communicate signals from other processing circuitry in the
   compact computing system 100 to the wireless processing circuitry board 1702, e.g.,
   for modulation and transmission through one or more of the antennas 1604. In some
15 embodiments, analog radio frequency processing circuitry and/or digital radio
   frequency processing circuitry can be mounted on the wireless processing circuitry
   board 1702.     The analog and digital radio frequency processing circuitry on the
   wireless processing circuitry board 1702 can provide, at least in part, for transmission
   and reception of protocol data units according to one or more wireless communication
20 protocols.    In some embodiments, multiple antennas 1604 can be used for
   transmission and/or reception of radio frequency signals between the compact
   computing system 100 and additional wireless communication devices.
   [0118]      FIG. 18 illustrates a top perspective view 1800 of the antenna assembly
   and wireless processing circuitry for the compact computing system 100 in
25 accordance with some embodiments.           In an embodiment, three symmetrically
   positioned antennas 1604 each can connect through separate antenna cables 1608 to
   the wireless processing circuitry board 1702.       An additional secondary antenna
   housing 1806 can include a fourth antenna that connects through a secondary antenna
   cable 1804 to the wireless processing circuitry board 1702. In an embodiment, the
30 three top antennas 1604 can be used to communicate according to a first wireless
   communication protocol, while the fourth front mounted (secondary) antenna can be
   used to communicate according to a second wireless communication protocol. In an
   embodiment, the four antennas 1604 (including the front mounted secondary antenna)
                                            37

   1002139969
   can be used together to communicate according to a wireless communication protocol,
   e.g., in a multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) mode.
   [0119]       In an embodiment, wireless signal processing circuitry on the wireless
   processing circuitry board 1702 can select among the different antennas 1604
 5 (including in some embodiments the front mounted secondary antenna) to transmit
   and/or receive radio frequency signals based on measured radio frequency signal
   quality conditions, using one or more of the antennas 1604 alone or together. In an
   embodiment, the wireless processing circuitry board 1702 includes radio frequency
   processing circuitry that can communicate according to a wireless local area network
10 (WLAN) communication protocol, e.g., a Wi-Fi protocol, and/or according to a
   wireless personal area network (WPAN) communication protocol, e.g., a Bluetooth
   protocol.    In an embodiment, digital signals from the wireless processing circuitry
   board     1702 can be communicated         through the wireless processing circuitry
   interconnect 1706 cable to another circuit board (not shown) of the compact
15 computing system for further processing. In some embodiments, the digital signals of
   the wireless processing circuitry board 1702 can pass through the wireless interposer
   board 1704 to which the wireless processing circuitry interconnect 1706 can be
   attached.
   [0120]       FIG. 19 illustrates a bottom perspective view 1900 of the wireless
20 subsystem 302 of the compact computing system 100 in accordance with some
   embodiments. In an embodiment, wireless processing circuitry 1902 can be mounted
   on the wireless processing circuitry board 1702 and can receive and/or transmit radio
   frequency signals through one or more antennas 1604 connected by antenna cables
   1608 and/or a front mounted antenna in the secondary antenna housing 1806. The
25 wireless processing circuitry board 1702 can communicate digital data (e.g., protocol
   data units) through the wireless processing circuitry interconnect 1706 cable which
   can mount to another circuitry board (not shown) of the compact computing system,
   e.g., to communicate with a "higher layer" applications processor, e.g., the CPU 402
   or other digital chip provided for digital communication formatting and processing.
30 In some embodiments, the wireless processing circuitry interconnect 1706 can
   connect to the wireless interposer board 1704 which then can connect to the wireless
   processing circuitry board 1702.
   [0121]       FIG. 20 illustrates a perspective view 2000 of an input/output (1/0)
   assembly coupled to a top mounted air mover assembly in accordance with some
                                             38

   1002139969
   embodiments.      The top mounted air mover assembly can include, in some
   embodiments, the impeller 304 coupled to the exhaust assembly 218 and covered by
   the plenum plate 328 that can draw an airflow through the central core 200 of
   components of the compact computing system 100. The external housing 102 of the
 5 compact computing system 100 can include an opening through which an interface
   panel 110 can be located, e.g., as illustrated in FIG. 1. The interface panel 110 can be
   attached to the I/O subassembly cover 326, which can complete at least in part a
   portion of a Faraday cage that blocks and/or attenuates electromagnetic energy from
   entering or exiting the external housing 102. In an embodiment, the interface panel
10 100 can be formed of a radio frequency transparent material, e.g., a hardened plastic,
   and a separate perforated wire mesh panel (not shown) can line portions of the interior
   of the interface panel 110 to limit electromagnetic energy from passing through the
   interface panel 110.
   [0122]      As illustrated in FIG. 20, a number of openings for I/O ports can be
15 accommodated. In addition, in some embodiments, the secondary antenna housing
   1806 can be mounted inside of the 1/0 subassembly cover 326 containing a secondary
   antenna (not shown) to communicate radio frequency signals through a radio
   frequency transparent window in the interface panel 110 (and/or the I/O subassembly
   cover 326). In some embodiments, wireless processing circuitry 1902 (not shown)
20 can communicate digital signals through the wireless processing circuitry interconnect
   1706 cable, which can attach to a circuit board (not shown) placed along the back of
   the I/O assembly. In an embodiment, one or more individual icons and/or grouping
   icons for the 11O ports of the interface panel 110, e.g., can be illuminated under
   computer control of light emitting diodes (LEDs) as described further herein. In some
25 embodiments, signals to control the illumination of one or more of the individual
   icons and/or grouping icons for the I/O ports can be communicated through an LED
   flex cable 2002 mounted on the rear of the interface panel 110 (and or to the 11O
   subassembly cover 326).      In an embodiment, the interface panel 110 includes an
   opening for AC power connection 112, and AC power cable 2004 can transmit
30 received AC power from AC power connector 112 to the power supply unit 322 (not
   shown).
   [0123]      FIG. 21 illustrates another perspective view 2100 of the input/output
   assembly coupled to the top mounted air mover assembly in accordance with some
   embodiments. FIG. 21 illustrates an input/output (I/O) board 2102 mounted on the
                                              39

   1002139969
   interior face of the I/O subassembly cover. In some embodiments, the I/O board 2102
   illustrated in FIG. 21 substantially corresponds to the 1/0 board 324 illustrated in FIG.
   3. The 1/0 board 2102 can include multiple I/O connectors that can project through
   the interface panel 110. The 1/0 board can provide a high speed data connection
 5 through an I/O rigid flex connector 2104 for the set of I/O ports of the compact
   computing system 100. In an embodiment, the I/O rigid flex connector 2104 can
   terminate a flex cable (not shown) that connects to the interconnect board 316,
   thereby providing a high bandwidth connection between the set of I/O ports on the 1/0
   board 2102 and the CPU board 318 and GPU board(s) 306, which also connect to the
10 interconnect board 316.
   [0124]       The wireless processing circuitry interconnect 1706 can also connect to the
   I/O board 2102 providing at least a portion of a data path between the wireless
   processing circuitry 1902 mounted in the top portion of the air mover assembly and
   one or more processing chips on the interconnect board 316, the CPU board 318,
15 and/or the GPU boards 306. In an embodiment, high speed connections through flex
   connectors to the GPU board(s) 306 and/or through edge connectors to the CPU board
   318 can include multiple lanes of a peripheral component interconnect express (PCIe)
   interface, e.g., 32 lanes of a PCIe 2.X/3.X/4.X interface. In some embodiments, the
   high bandwidth connection between the 1/0 board 2102 and the interconnect board
20 316 can utilize multiple lanes of one or more peripheral component interconnect
   express (PCIe) interfaces, e.g., 32 lanes of a PCIe interface, 2 x 16 lanes of two
   parallel PCIe interfaces, n x 32 lanes of multiple PCIe interfaces, or other
   combinations of one or more PCIe interfaces.
   [0125]       FIG. 22 illustrates a front view 2200 of the interface panel 110 of the
25 compact computing system 100 in accordance with some embodiments.                   In an
   embodiment, the interface panel 110 can be formed at least in part using a transparent
   material covered with one or more layers of paint on its surface. In an embodiment, a
   portion of the one or more layers of paint can be laser etched to reveal a portion of a
   surface layer beneath. In an embodiment, one or more icons and/or groupings can be
30 formed using a process that includes painting and laser etching a surface of the
   interface panel 110. As illustrated in FIG. 22, icons on the interface panel 110 can
   indicate individual ports and/or groups of ports. In an embodiment, an illuminable
   icon 2202 can be formed adjacent to an individual port and/or centered among a group
   of ports on the interface panel 110.        The illuminable icon 2202 can provide a
                                             40

   1002139969
   graphical indication of a function of the port with which the illuminable icon 2202 can
   be related. In an embodiment, a set of audio ports 116 can be labeled using one or
   more illuminable icons 2202, e.g., a first illuminable icon 2202 to indicate a speaker
   (audio output) port and a second illuminable icon 2202 to indicate a microphone
 5 (audio input) port. In an embodiment, a set of bus ports 118 can be labeled using an
   illuminable icon 2202, e.g., centrally placed among the set of bus ports 118, and also
   can be labeled using an illumination pattern 2204, which can circumferentially
   delineate the set of bus ports 118 from adjacent ports on the interface panel 110.
   [0126]      In an embodiment, as illustrated in FIG. 22, the illumination pattern 2204
10 can include a rounded edge rectangle that surrounds the set of bus ports 118.
   Similarly, in an embodiment, the set of high-speed expansion ports 120 can be labeled
   using a combination of a centrally placed illuminable icon 2202 and a perimeter
   bounded illumination pattern 2204. In an embodiment, a set of networking ports 122
   can be labeled with an illuminable icon 2202 and by an illumination pattern 2204
15 surrounding the set of networking ports 122.          In an embodiment, an adjacent
   illuminable icon 2202 can label the video port 114. In some embodiments, the power
   switch 124 can be illuminated and provide one or more activity indications through
   flashing (or other changes) to the illumination.     The interface panel 110 can also
   include an AC power inlet opening 2206 through which an AC power input port 112
20 can be accessed.
   [0127]      FIG. 23 illustrates a front view 2300 of an input/output (I/O) flexible wall
   assembly 2310 that can be mounted on the interior of the interface panel 110 for the
   compact computing system 100 in accordance with some embodiments.                The I/O
   flexible wall assembly 2310 can include one or more icon light emitting diodes
25 (LEDs) 2304 that can be positioned adjacent to one or more icon light guides 2302.
   The icon LEDs 2304 can transmit light through the icon light guides 2302 which can
   be placed behind corresponding illuminable icons 2202.         In an embodiment, each
   illuminable icon 2202 can be paired with a corresponding icon light guide 2302 and
   icon LED 2304, which can be controlled to illuminate the corresponding illuminable
30 icon 2202, e.g., through control signals received over the LED flex cable 2002 from
   control processing circuitry in the compact computing system 100.               In some
   embodiments, one or more grouping LEDs 2308 can be positioned adjacent to one or
   more grouping light guides 2306 which can be placed about a grouping of ports, e.g.,
   behind a corresponding illumination pattern 2204. The one or more grouping LEDs
                                             41

   1002139969
   2308 can transmit light through the grouping light guides 2306. In an embodiment,
   each illumination pattern 2204 can be paired with a corresponding grouping light
   guide 2306 which can transmit light around a set of ports of the interface panel 110.
   In a representative embodiment, a pair of grouping LEDs 2308 can be placed at
 5 comers of each grouping light guide 2306.
   [0128]      FIG. 24 illustrates a back view 2400 of the input/output flexible wall
   assembly 2310 attached to the back of the interface panel 110 of the compact
   computing system 100 in accordance with some embodiments. The 1/0 flexible wall
   assembly 2310 can be attached to position lone or more icon light guides 2302 and/or
10 grouping light guides 2306 to provide light from one or more LEDs 2304/2308 to a
   region behind illuminable icons 2202 and/or illumination pattern 2204.                  The
   illuminable icons 2202 and/or the illumination pattern 2204 can be lit under control of
   one or more processors in the compact computing system 100. In an embodiment,
   one or more sensors, e.g., accelerometers, can sense movement of the compact
15 computing system and illuminate one or more illuminable icons 2202 and/or
   illumination pattern 2204 to assist a user of the compact computing system to locate a
   particular port or set of ports on the interface panel 110.
   [0129]      FIG. 25 illustrates a back view 2500 and a cross sectional view 2510 of a
   portion of the interface panel 110 of the compact computing system 100 in
20 accordance with some embodiments.          As described above for FIG.'s 22-24, one or
   more illuminable icons 2202 and/or illumination pattern 2204 can be formed on
   (and/or through) the interface panel 110 and can be illuminated from behind using a
   corresponding light guide and LED. The interface panel 110, in some embodiments,
   can be formed of a translucent and/or light transparent material that can be dyed
25 and/or painted in various regions and/or areas. In an embodiment, a light blocking
   region 2504 can be formed around the periphery of one or more port opening(s) 2502
   through which an I/O port of the interface panel 110 can project. In an embodiment,
   the light blocking region 2506 can be formed by infusing a penetrating dye into
   regions adjacent to one or more port openings 2502 in the interface panel 110. In an
30 embodiment, a light transparent region 1504 can abut the light blocking region 2506
   that surrounds each of the port openings 2502.
   [0130]      In an embodiment, the interface panel 110 can be initially formed
   substantially entirely of a light transparent material (such as plastic) and select regions
   surrounding each port opening 2502 in the interface panel 110 can be transformed to
                                              42

   1002139969
   be light blocking regions 2506. In an embodiment each light transparent region 2504
   adjacent to one or more light blocking regions can encompass an area that includes at
   least an illumination pattern 2204 for a set of ports. The illumination pattern can be
   formed by laser etching away one or more layers of paint applied to a surface of the
 5 interface panel 110. As illustrated by the cross section view 2510, the interface panel
   110 can include a port opening 2502 surrounded by a light blocking region 2506,
   which in turn is adjacent to a light transparent region 2504.       In a manufacturing
   process, one or more layers of paint can be applied to an outer facing surface of the
   interface panel 110. In an embodiment, a white paint layer 2508 followed by a black
10 paint layer 2512 can be applied to the outer facing surface of the interface panel 110.
   Subsequently, a portion of the black paint layer 2512 can be laser etched to remove
   black paint forming a laser etched opening 2514 in the black paint layer 2512 (e.g., in
   the shape of an illuminable icon 2202 and/or an illumination pattern 2204) to reveal
   the white paint layer 2508 beneath.
15 [0131]       In some embodiment, the white paint layer is transparent to a portion of
   light provided by a grouping LED 2308 transmitted by a grouping light guide 2306
   placed adjacent to the read facing side of the interface panel 110. As illustrated in
   FIG. 25, LED light 2516 from the grouping LED 2308 can be guided by the grouping
   light guide 2306 through a portion of the light transparent region 2504 behind the
20 laser etched opening 2514, thereby providing back illumination for the illumination
   pattern 2204 (or equivalently for an illuminable icon 2202). The light blocking region
   2506, situated between the light transparent region 2504 through which the LED light
   2516 passes and the port opening 2502, can block the LED light 2516 from emanating
   from the port opening.
25 [0132]       FIG. 26 illustrates a method 2600 for illuminating the illumination pattern
   2204 of a set of ports on the interface panel 110 in response to detecting movement of
   the compact computing system 100 in accordance with some embodiments.               The
   method includes at least the following steps.       In a first step 2602, a processing
   element in the compact computing system 100 detects at least one of a rotational
30 movement and a translational movement of the compact computing systeml00. In a
   second step 2604, the processing element communicates an illumination control
   signal to the input/output flexible wall 2310 mounted on an interior face of the
   interface panel 110 of the compact computing system 100. In a third step 2606, in
   response to obtaining the illumination control signal, one or more light emitting
                                             43

   1002139969
   diodes (LEDs) associated with the set of ports, e.g., one or more grouping LEDs
   2308, are activated to transmit a beam of LED light 2516, guided by a grouping light
   guide 2306 adjacent to the set of ports, through a laser etched opening 2514 in a paint
   layer 2512 on an outer surface of the interface panel 110. The laser etched opening
 5 2514 surrounds the set of ports, wherein a first portion of the interface panel 110
   adjacent to the grouping light guide 2306 is at least partially transparent to the beam
   of LED light 2516 (e.g., light transparent region 2504) and wherein a second portion
   of the interface panel 110, adjacent to the first portion of the interface panel 110 and
   adjacent to at least one port in the set of ports, is opaque to the beam of light, e.g.,
10 light blocking region 2506.
   [0133]      FIG. 27 shows a perspective view of compact computing system 2700.
   Compact computing system 2700 can have a shape defined by housing 2702. In the
   described embodiments, housing 2702 can be cylindrical in shape having a first
   opening 2704 characterized as having diameter dl. More specifically, housing 2702
15 can take the form of a circular right cylinder having a longitudinal axis that extends
   along a centerline of a central volume enclosed by housing 2702. Housing 2702 can
   be characterized as having a circular cross section having a center point coincident
   with a corresponding point on the longitudinal axis. The circular cross section has a
   radius that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and extends outwardly therefrom.
20 Accordingly, thickness t of housing 2702 (more specifically a housing wall) can be
   defined as a difference between an outer radius ro associated with an exterior of
   housing 2702 and inner radius ri associated with an interior surface of housing 2702.
   Moreover, housing 2702 can include second opening 2706 axially disposed from first
   opening 2704 having diameter d2 defined in part by exhaust lip 2708 where dl is at
25 least equal to or greater than d2. Housing 2702 can be formed from a single billet of
   aluminum in the form of a disk that can be extruded in a manner forming exhaust lip
   2708. Thickness t of housing 2702 can be tuned to mitigate hot spots. In this regard,
   housing2702 can have a non-uniform thickness t. In particular, portion 2710 near
   exhaust lip 2708 can have a first thickness of about 4 - 6 mm that then changes to a
30 second thickness associated with portion 2712 that is reduced from the first thickness
   and located away from exhaust lip 2708. In this way, portion 2710 can act as both an
   integrated handle used to grasp compact computing system 2700 and as a feature that
   absorbs and conducts thermal energy transferred from a portion of exhaust airflow
   2714 that engages exhaust lip 2708. Through radiative and conductive heat transfer
                                            44

   1002139969
   and by limiting the amount of heat transferred to portion 2712, the formation of local
   hot spots in housing 2702 can be mitigated. Tuning the thickness of housing 2702 can
   be accomplished using, for example, an impact extrusion process using a metal disk
   that is then machined to the desired thickness profile. The metal disk may be made of
 5 aluminum, titanium, and any other metallic material that provides the strength,
   thermal conductivity, and RF-isolation desired.         The extrusion process forms a
   cylinder that is machined in the exterior portion and in the interior portion to acquire
   the desired cross sectional profile and also the desired visual appeal from the exterior.
   [0134]       Compact computing system 2700 can further include base unit 2716. Base
10 unit 2716 can be used to provide support for compact computing system 2700.
   Accordingly, base unit 2716 can be formed of strong and resilient material along the
   lines of metal that can also prevent leakage of electromagnetic (EM) energy from
   components within compact computing system 2700 that radiate EM energy during
   operation. Base unit 2716 can also be formed of non-metallic compounds that can
15 nonetheless be rendered electrically conductive using, for example, electrically
   conductive particles embedded therein. In order to assure that any electromagnetic
   energy emitted by components within compact computing system 2700 does not leak
   out, lower conductive gasket 2718 can be used to complete a Faraday cage formed by
   base unit 2716 and housing 2702.       Upper conductive gasket 2720 (shown in more
20 detail in FIG. 3) can be disposed on the interior surface of housing 2702 near a lower
   edge of portion 2710. Use of conductive gaskets 2718 and 120 to complete the
   Faraday cage can increase EMI isolation by about 20 dB.
   [0135]       Base unit 2716 can also include vents 2722.        Vents 2722 can be dual
   purpose in that vents 2722 can be arranged in base unit 2716 in such a way that a
25 suitable amount of air from an external environment can flow through vents 2722 in
   the form of intake airflow 2724.      In one embodiment, intake airflow 2724 can be
   related to a pressure differential across vents 2722 created by an air mover disposed
   with compact computing system 2700.          In one embodiment, the air mover can be
   disposed near second opening 2706 creating a suction effect that reduces an ambient
30 pressure within housing 2702. In addition to facilitating intake airflow 2724, vents
   2722 can be sized to prevent leakage of electromagnetic energy there through. The
   size of vents 2722 can be related to a wavelength corresponding to electromagnetic
   energy emitted by internal components.
                                             45

   1002139969
   [0136]       It should be noted that although a cylindrical housing is shown, that
   nonetheless any suitably shaped housing can be used. For example, housing 2702 can
   be have a rectangular cross section, a conical cross section (of which the circle is only
   one), or the cross section can take the form of an n-sided polygon (of which the
 5 rectangle is one in which n    = 4 and a triangle where n    =  3) where n is an integer
   having a value of at least 3.
   [0137]       A desktop computing system is described having a housing having an
   interior surface that defines an internal volume and having a longitudinal axis, a
   computing engine that includes a computational component and a structural core
10 positioned within the internal volume that provides structural support for the
   computing engine such that the computing engine takes on a general shape of the
   structural core.   In one embodiment, the structural core includes a heat sink that
   facilitates removal from the desktop computing system at least some heat generated
   by the computing engine.
15 [0138]       In one embodiment, the structural core includes a heat sink that facilitates
   removal of heat from the cylindrical volume and the heat sink includes a plurality of
   planar faces that provides the structural core with a triangular shape that encloses a
   central thermal zone having a triangular cross section such that the computing engine
   takes on the triangular shape of the structural core. In one embodiment, the central
20 thermal zone is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis and an exterior surface of
   the plurality of planar faces and an interior surface of the cylindrical housing define a
   peripheral thermal zone apart from the central thermal zone. In one embodiment, a
   thermal management system and the computing engine cooperate to maintain a
   temperature of the computational component within a pre-determined range of
25 operating temperatures such that a central airflow through the central thermal zone
   and a peripheral airflow are directed through the peripheral thermal zone. In one
   embodiment, the desktop computing system is characterized as having a computing
   density defined as a peak operating rate of the computing engine over an amount of
   time divided by the cylindrical volume. In one embodiment, the cylindrical housing
30 is formed of aluminum. In one embodiment, the computational component has a
   shape having a major centerline corresponding to a major dimension and a minor
   centerline corresponding to a minor dimension. In one embodiment, the major
   dimension corresponding to a major length and the minor dimension corresponds to a
   minor length. In one embodiment, the major dimension is a length (L) and the minor
                                            46

   1002139969
   dimension is a width. In one embodiment, the major dimension is generally parallel
   to the longitudinal axis.     In one embodiment, the minor dimension is generally
   parallel to the longitudinal axis.
   [0139]       In one embodiment, the major centerline is perpendicular to the minor
 5 centerline. In one embodiment, an internal structure of the computational component
   is organized generally parallel to the major centerline and in accordance with the
   major length. In one embodiment, the computational component includes a first node
   at a first end and a second node at a second end opposite the first end. The desktop
   computing system also includes a printed circuit board (PCB) having a PCB shape
10 defined by a PCB major centerline, and an electrical trace and the computational
   component is mounted to the PCB and electrically connected to the electrical trace.
   In one embodiment, the PCB is mounted to one of the plurality of planar faces and the
   PCB centerline is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis and the PCB is one of a
   plurality of PCBs each having their respective PCB major centerlines being generally
15 parallel to the longitudinal axis and at least one PCB is a graphics processing unit
   (GPU) board In one embodiment, the GPU board comprises: a graphics processing
   unit (GPU) and a video random access memory (VRAM) coupled to the GPU via a
   corresponding electrical trace. In one embodiment, the system includes a central
   processing unit (CPU) board comprising: a central processing unit (CPU) mounted to
20 a first side of the CPU board and a memory module mounted on a second side of the
   CPU board and electrically connected to the CPU where the first side is opposite the
   second side of the CPU board.
   [0140]       In one embodiment, an Input/Output (I/O) board that includes an
   input/output (11O) interface board comprising a high speed data port where the high
25 speed data port is accessible to an external system. In one embodiment, the system
   includes an interconnect board connected to (1) the GPU board through a first wide
   bandwidth interconnect cable, (2) the I/O interface board through a second wide
   bandwidth interconnect cable, and (3) the CPU board through a wide bandwidth edge
   connectors on the CPU board and a socket connector on the interconnect board. In
30 one embodiment, the system also includes a power supply unit arranged to provide
   one or more direct current (DC) voltages to a top edge of the GPU board opposite to a
   bottom edge of the GPU board to which the first wide bandwidth interconnect cable
   attaches, and to a top edge of the CPU board opposite a bottom edge of the CPU
   board that includes the wide bandwidth edge connector. In one embodiment, the first
                                           47

   1002139969
   and second wide bandwidth interconnects comprise flexible cables, and a third wide
   bandwidth interconnect comprises one or more edge connectors on the CPU board
   mated to one or more corresponding socket connectors on the interconnect board.
   [0141]     A desktop computing system is described. The desktop computing system
 5 includes a housing having an interior surface that defines an internal volume having a
   longitudinal axis and a computing engine located within the internal volume where
   the computing engine has a generally triangular cross section that is perpendicular to
   the longitudinal axis.
   [0142]     In one embodiment, the desktop computing system includes a heat sink in
10 thermal contact with at least the computational component where the heat sink
   includes a plurality of planar faces at least one of which is parallel to the longitudinal
   axis and at least one of the plurality of planar faces provides a structural support for
   the computing engine. In one embodiment, the computational/computing component
   is mounted to one of the plurality of planar faces.           In one embodiment, the
15 computational component has a shape comprising a major centerline corresponding to
   a major dimension and a minor centerline corresponding to a minor dimension and in
   one embodiment the major dimension is a length (L) and the minor dimension is a
   width (W). In one embodiment, an internal structure of the computational component
   is organized generally parallel to the major centerline. The computing engine further
20 includes a printed circuit board (PCB) comprising a plurality of electrical traces and
   the printed circuit board has a PCB major centerline that is generally parallel to the
   longitudinal axis. In one embodiment, the printed circuit board is a central processing
   unit (CPU) board and a CPU is mounted to a first face of the CPU board and the CPU
   is connected to one of the plurality of electrical traces. In one embodiment, the CPU
25 board further comprising a memory module mounted on a second face of the CPU
   board opposite the first face of the CPU board.
   [0143]     The desktop computing          system also includes a memory module
   mechanism disposed on the second face of the CPU board and configured to provide
   support for the memory module. In one embodiment, the memory module mechanism
30 includes a pair of end guides connected to each other by a supporting member and
   each end guide comprising a slot configured to hold an end of the memory module
   and direct the memory module to a socket mounted on the CPU board.                 In one
   embodiment, the memory module mechanism also includes a lock mechanism
   configured to provide for movement of the memory module mechanism between an
                                             48

   1002139969
   unlocked position and a locked position and an actuator attached to a first end guide
   that actuates a locking function of the memory module mechanism by receiving an
   applied force at either the actuator or the supporting member causing the memory
   module mechanism to move between the unlocked position and the locked position.
 5 In one embodiment, the supporting member configured to provide structural support
   and to facilitate transfer of a portion of the applied force to a second end guide
   opposite the first end guide and to resist torsion of the memory module mechanism.
   In one embodiment, the memory module mechanism allows insertion and removal of
   the memory module in the unlocked position and restricts insertion and removal of the
10 memory module in the locked position. In one embodiment, the memory module
   mechanism providing an over travel movement of the memory module mechanism in
   a first direction in response to the applied force received at the actuator or the
   supporting member when the memory module mechanism is in the locked position.
   In one embodiment, the memory module further includes a spring loaded mechanism
15 that causes the memory module mechanism to move in a second direction opposite
   the first direction from the locked position to the unlocked position in response to the
   over travel movement. In one embodiment, the memory module is a dual in-line
   memory module having an approximate length of 133 mm. In one embodiment, the
   memory module mechanism engages the memory module to the socket in the locked
20 position and disengages the memory module from the socket in the unlocked position.
   In one embodiment, the lock mechanism comprising a movable linkage assembly
   comprising a plurality of interconnected bars. In one embodiment, the housing is a
   cylindrical housing that defines a shape of the internal volume as being a cylindrical
   volume.
25 [0144]       A desktop computing system is described. The desktop computing system
   includes a housing that encloses an internal volume having a longitudinal axis and a
   circular cross section defined by a radius perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. The
   system also includes a printed circuit board (PCB) disposed within the internal
   volume having a shape defined in part by a PCB major centerline that is generally
30 parallel to the longitudinal axis and perpendicular to the radius and radially positioned
   a radial distance from the longitudinal axis and along the radius. In one embodiment,
   the housing has a cylindrical shape that defines a shape of the internal volume as
   being a cylindrical volume.
                                             49

   1002139969
   [0145]       In an embodiment, the radius has a maximum radial distance at an interior
   surface of the cylindrical housing. In an embodiment, the PCB is part of a stack of
   interconnected PCBs that includes a central processing unit (CPU) board located at a
   first radial distance along the radius and having a CPU board centerline generally
 5 parallel to the longitudinal axis and comprising a CPU having a CPU centerline
   mounted on a first side of the CPU board generally parallel to the CPU board
   centerline, the CPU board comprising a power input node at a first end and a data
   node comprising one or more wide bandwidth edge connectors at a second end
   opposite the first end, wherein the first and second ends are located at opposite ends
10 of the CPU board and a power supply unit coupled to the CPU board and arranged to
   provide one or more direct current (DC) voltages to the power input node. In an
   embodiment, the stack of interconnected PCBs further includes an input/output (1/0)
   interface board located at a second radial distance greater than radial distance, each of
   which is less than maximum radial distance, and includes a plurality of high speed
15 data ports to one or more external systems, and an I/O interface panel comprising a
   plurality of illuminable I/O ports at least one of which corresponds to one of the
   plurality of high speed data ports, wherein when a sensor detects movement of the
   cylindrical desktop computing system, an illumination pattern display indicator for at
   least some of the plurality of illuminable I/O ports is illuminated.
20 [0146]       A flexible 11O wall sub-assembly is mounted on an interior surface of the
   I/O interface panel configured to receive an illumination control signal in accordance
   with the movement detected by the sensor. In an embodiment, the flexible I/O wall
   sub-assembly further includes a light emitting diodes (LED) that responds to the
   illumination control signal by generating light and a grouping light guide positioned
25 adjacent to at least one of the plurality of I/O ports and configured to receive and
   guide the light generated by the LED through an opening of an opaque layer on an
   outer surface of the I/O interface panel, the opening surrounding at least one of the
   plurality of I/O ports. In an embodiment, a first portion of the interface panel adjacent
   the grouping light guide is at least partially transparent to the light and a second
30 portion of the interface panel adjacent to the first portion of the interface panel and
   adjacent to the at least one I/O port is opaque to the light. And the first portion of the
   interface panel includes the illumination pattern display indicator and the second
   portion of the interface panel blocks the light from emanating from the at least one
                                             50

   1002139969
   I/O port. In an embodiment, movement includes at least one of rotational movement
   and translational movement.
   [0147]      A method of indicating movement of a desktop computing system is
   described. The method can be carried out by detecting the movement of the desktop
 5 computing system by a sensor, providing a movement detection signal by the sensor
   to a processor in accordance with the movement, providing an illumination control
   signal by the processor in response to the movement detection signal to an I/O
   interface panel comprising a light emitting diode (LED), generating light by the LED
   in response to the illumination control signal and illuminating an 11O port using at
10 least some of the light indicating the movement of the desktop computing system.
   [0148]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having an axisymmetric
   shape and a longitudinal axis, an air passage that spans an entire length of the housing
   and a computational component disposed within the air passage. In an embodiment,
   the system includes a heat sink having a triangular cross section disposed within the
15 air passage and in thermal contact with the computational component where the
   triangular heat sink includes a plurality of planar faces and the computational
   component is mounted to one planar face of the plurality of planar faces.
   [0149]      A computer architecture is described having an internal component
   arrangement that includes an internal component and external interface arrangement
20 for a cylindrical compact computing system, the internal component and external
   interface arrangement having a structural heat sink that includes multiple faces to
   which computational components of a computing core of the compact computing
   system are attached including a first face connected to a second face by a plurality of
   cooling fins.
25 [0150]      A method for illuminating an illumination pattern display indicator for a
   set of input/output (I/O) ports on an I/O interface panel of a compact computing
   system is described. The method is carried out by detecting at least one of a rotational
   movement and a translational movement of the compact computing system, providing
   an illumination control signal to an I/O flexible wall sub-assembly mounted on an
30 interior face of the I/O interface panel of the compact computing system, and in
   response to the provided illumination control signal, activating one or more light
   emitting diodes (LEDs) to transmit a beam of light, guided by a grouping light guide
   positioned adjacent to the set of 11O ports, through a laser etched opening of a paint
   layer on an outer surface of the interface panel, wherein the laser etched opening
                                            51

   1002139969
   surrounds the set of ports. In one embodiment, a first portion of the interface panel
   adjacent to the grouping light guide is at least partially transparent to the beam of light
   and a second portion of the interface panel adjacent to the first portion of the interface
   panel and adjacent to at least one port in the set of ports is opaque to the beam of
 5 light.
   [0151]      A rotating and locking memory module mechanism is described that
   includes a pair of end guides, connected by a supporting member, each end guide
   including a slot to hold an end of a memory module and direct the memory module to
   a socket mounted on a circuit board, a lock mechanism configured to provide for
10 rotation of the memory module mechanism between an unlocked position and an
   unlocked position, an actuator attached to a first end guide in the pair of end guides,
   wherein a user actuates a rotating and locking function of the memory module
   mechanism by applying a pressing force to the actuator or to the supporting member,
   thereby rotating the memory module mechanism between the unlocked position and
15 the locked position, and the supporting member configured to provide structural
   support to transfer a portion of the pressing force applied to the actuator to an end
   guide opposite the actuator and to resist torsion of the memory module mechanism.
   In one embodiment, the memory module mechanism allows insertion and removal of
   the memory module while in the unlocked position and restricts insertion and removal
20 of the memory module while in the locked position.
   [0152]      In an embodiment, a lock mechanism is provided for movement of the
   memory module mechanism between an unlocked position and a locked position and
   an actuator attached to a first end guide that actuates a locking function of the
   memory module mechanism by receiving an applied force at either the actuator or the
25 supporting member causing the memory module mechanism to move between the
   unlocked position and the locked position.         In one embodiment, the supporting
   member configured to provide structural support and to facilitate transfer of a portion
   of the applied force to a second end guide opposite the first end guide and to resist
   torsion of the memory module mechanism. In one embodiment, the memory module
30 mechanism allows insertion and removal of the memory module in the unlocked
   position and restricts insertion and removal of the memory module in the locked
   position.
   [0153]      In one embodiment, the memory module mechanism providing an over
   travel movement of the memory module mechanism in a first direction in response to
                                            52

   1002139969
   the applied force received at the actuator or the supporting member when the memory
   module mechanism is in the locked position.          In one embodiment, the memory
   module also includes a spring loaded mechanism that causes the memory module
   mechanism to move in a second direction opposite the first direction from the locked
 5 position to the unlocked position in response to the over travel movement.       In one
   embodiment, the memory module is a dual in-line memory module having an
   approximate length of 133 mm. In one embodiment, the memory module mechanism
   engages the memory module to the socket in the locked position and disengages the
   memory module from the socket in the unlocked position. In one embodiment, the
10 lock mechanism includes a movable linkage assembly comprising a plurality of
   interconnected bars.
   [0154]      A cylindrical desktop computing system includes a computing engine
   positioned within a cylindrical housing that cooperates with a thermal management
   system to promote a high computational processing rate per unit volume.
15 [0155]      A memory module mechanism includes a pair of end guides having a first
   and second end guides, connected by a supporting member, each end guide including
   a slot to hold an end of a memory module and direct the memory module to a socket
   mounted on a circuit board, a lock mechanism configured to provide for rotation of
   the memory module mechanism between an unlocked position and a locked position,
20 and an actuator attached to a first end guide in the pair of end guides, wherein a user
   actuates a rotating and locking function of the memory module mechanism by
   applying a force to the actuator or to the supporting member, thereby rotating the
   memory module mechanism between the unlocked position and the locked position.
   [0156]      A method of indicating movement of a desktop computing system is
25 described.    The method includes at least the following opeations: detecting the
   movement of the desktop computing system by a sensor, providing a movement
   detection signal by the sensor to a processor in accordance with the movement;
   providing an illumination control signal by the processor in response to the movement
   detection signal to an 11O interface panel comprising a light emitting diode (LED);
30 generating light by the LED in response to the illumination control signal;
   illuminating an I/O port using at least some of the light indicating the movement of
   the desktop computing system. In one embodiment, receiving at least some of the
   light generated by the LED by a grouping light guide adjacent to the plurality of I/O
   ports that guides some of the received light through an opening of an opaque layer on
                                            53

   1002139969
   an outer surface of the I/O interface panel. In one embodiment, a first portion of the
   I/O interface panel is adjacent the grouping light guide and is at least partially
   transparent to the light. In one embodiment, a second portion of the I/O interface
   panel adjacent the first portion of the interface panel and adjacent to the at least one
 5 I/O port is opaque to the light.
   [0157]      A method for illuminating an illumination pattern display indicator for a
   set of input/output (I/O) ports on an I/O interface panel of a compact computing
   system is described. The method is carried out by detecting at least one of a rotational
   movement and a translational movement of the compact computing system, providing
10 an illumination control signal to an I/O flexible wall sub-assembly mounted on an
   interior face of the I/O interface panel of the compact computing system, and in
   response to the provided illumination control signal, activating one or more light
   emitting diodes (LEDs) to transmit a beam of light, guided by a grouping light guide
   positioned adjacent to the set of 11O ports, through a laser etched opening of a paint
15 layer on an outer surface of the interface panel, wherein the laser etched opening
   surrounds the set of ports. In one embodiment, a first portion of the interface panel
   adjacent to the grouping light guide is at least partially transparent to the beam of light
   and a second portion of the interface panel adjacent to the first portion of the interface
   panel and adjacent to at least one port in the set of ports is opaque to the beam of
20 light.
   [0158]      A compact desktop computing system includes a computing engine having
   a generally triangular layout that cooperates with a corresponding cylindrical housing
   and a thermal management system to promote a high computational processing rate
   per unit volume.
   [0159]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
   that encloses and defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the longitudinal
   axis, a computing engine disposed within the internal volume, and a structural core
   positioned within the internal volume that provides structural support for the
   computing engine such that the computing engine takes on a general shape of the
   structural core.
   [0160]      In an embodiment, the structural core comprises a heat sink that facilitates
   removal of heat from the axisymmetric volume. In an embodiment, the heat sink
   comprising a plurality of planar faces that provides the structural core with a shape of
   a polygon that encloses a central thermal zone having a cross section in the shape of
                                            54

1002139969
the polygon.    In an embodiment, the computing engine takes on the shape of the
structural core. In an embodiment, the central thermal zone is generally parallel to the
longitudinal axis. In an embodiment, an exterior surface of the plurality of planar
faces and an interior surface of the housing define a peripheral thermal zone apart
from the central thermal zone. In an embodiment, a thermal management system and
the computing engine cooperate to maintain a temperature of the computational
component within a pre-determined         range of operating temperatures.        In an
embodiment, the housing having the axisymmetric shape is a cylindrical housing. In
an embodiment, wherein the axisymmetric volume is a cylindrical volume. In an
embodiment, wherein the polygon is a triangle.
[0161]      A compact desktop computing system includes a housing having a
longitudinal axis having a length L, where the housing encloses and defines an
internal space that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis and having a volume V, a
computing engine positioned within the internal space and a thermal management
system that is closely coupled with the computing engine wherein the thermal
management system acts to maintain the computing engine at a thermal state in
accordance with the computing engine operating at an elevated computational
processing rate.     In an embodiment, thermal management system comprises a
structural core that provides structural support for the computing engine. In an
embodiment, the structural core comprises a plurality of planar faces that form a heat
sink having a cross section in accordance with a polygon and that defines a central
thermal zone.
[0162]      In an embodiment, at least a portion of the computing engine is mounted to
and supported by at least one of plurality of lateral faces and in close thermal contact
with the heat sink. In an embodiment, the close coupling between the thermal
management system and the computing engine comprises the computing engine
taking on a general shape of the heat sink. In an embodiment, the thermal
management system further comprises an air mover configured to move air through
the central thermal zone. In an embodiment, the close coupling between the thermal
management system and the computing engine also includes moving an amount of air
at a velocity through the central thermal zone by the air mover in response to a
computational processing rate of the computing engine. In an embodiment, the
polygon is a triangle.
                                         55

   1002139969
   [0163]      In an embodiment, a computational processing density is defined as the
   computational processing rate divided by the volume V. In an embodiment, the
   housing is cylindrical and wherein the internal space comprises a circular cross
   section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and having an area A and wherein
   the volume V is about equal to length L times the area A (L x A). In another
   embodiment, the housing comprises n lateral faces wherein n is an integer having a
   value of at least 3 and wherein the internal space comprises an n-sided cross section
   that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and having an area A and wherein the
   volume V is about equal to length L times the area A (L x A).            In still another
   embodiment, the housing has a shape such that the corresponding internal space
   comprises a conical cross section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and
   having an area A and wherein the volume V is about equal to length L times the area
   A (L x A).
   [0164]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
   and that defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis, a
   computing engine comprising a computational component, and a structural core
   positioned within the internal volume that provides structural support for the
   computing engine.
   [0165]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
   and an interior surface that defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the
   longitudinal axis and a computing engine comprising a computational component, the
   computing engine located within the internal volume comprising a cross section that
 5 has a polygonal shape and that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.
   [0166]      A desktop computing system includes a cylindrical housing having a
   longitudinal axis and that encloses and defines an internal volume having a circular
   cross section centered at the longitudinal axis and defined by a radius centered at the
   longitudinal axis and that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and a printed circuit
10 board (PCB) disposed within the internal volume comprising a shape defined in part
   by a major centerline that is parallel to the longitudinal axis and is perpendicular to
   the radius and is located a distance from the longitudinal axis along the radius.
   [0167]      A method of indicating a movement of a desktop computing system
   includes at least the following operations: detecting the movement of the desktop
15 computing system by a sensor, providing a movement detection signal by the sensor
   to a processor in accordance with the movement, providing an illumination control
                                             56

   1002139969
   signal by the processor in response to the movement detection signal to an I/O
   interface panel comprising a light emitting diode (LED), generating a light by the
   LED in response to the illumination control signal, and illuminating an I/O port using
   at least some of the light indicating the movement of the desktop computing system.
 5 [0168]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a shape that is
   symmetric about a longitudinal axis, an air passage spanning an entire length of the
   housing, and a computational component disposed within the air passage.
   [0169]      A computer architecture that includes an internal component and external
   interface arrangement for a compact computing system is described.            The internal
10 component and external interface arrangement includes a structural heat sink having a
   lengthwise axis and that provides structural support for a computing engine having a
   computational component, the structural heat sink including planar faces that define a
   central region having a polygonal cross section that is perpendicular to the lengthwise
   axis and at least one of which carries the computational component, and a cooling that
15 connects an interior surface of a first planar face to an interior surface of at least a
   second planar face and that spans the central region.
   [0170]      A method for illuminating an illumination pattern display indicator for a
   set of input/output (I/O) ports on an I/O interface panel of a compact computing
   system is described. The method is carried out by detecting at least one of a rotational
20 movement and a translational movement of the compact computing system, providing
   an illumination control signal to an I/O flexible wall sub-assembly mounted on an
   interior face of the I/O interface panel of the compact computing system, and in
   response to the provided illumination control signal, activating one or more light
   emitting diodes (LEDs) to transmit a beam of light, guided by a grouping light guide
25 positioned adjacent to the set of 11O ports, through a laser etched opening of a paint
   layer on an outer surface of the interface panel, where the laser etched opening
   surrounds the set of ports, and where a first portion of the interface panel adjacent to
   the grouping light guide is at least partially transparent to the beam of light, and where
   a second portion of the interface panel adjacent to the first portion of the interface
30 panel and adjacent to at least one port in the set of ports is opaque to the beam of
   light.
   [0171]      A rotating and locking memory module mechanism includes a pair of end
   guides, connected by a supporting member, each end guide including a slot to hold an
   end of a memory module and direct the memory module to a socket mounted on a
                                              57

   1002139969
   circuit board, a lock mechanism configured to provide for rotation of the memory
   module mechanism between an unlocked position and locked position, an actuator
   attached to a first end guide in the pair of end guides, wherein a user actuates a
   rotating and locking function of the memory module mechanism by applying a
 5 pressing force to the actuator or to the supporting member, thereby rotating the
   memory module mechanism between the unlocked position and the locked position
   and the supporting member configured to provide structural support to transfer a
   portion of the pressing force applied to the actuator to an end guide opposite the
   actuator and to resist torsion of the memory module mechanism.              The memory
10 module mechanism allows insertion and removal of the memory module while in the
   unlocked position and restricts insertion and removal of the memory module while in
   the locked position.
   [0172]      A desktop computing system, includes a computing engine positioned
   within a cylindrical housing that defines a cylindrical volume having a longitudinal
15 axis and a thermal management system closely coupled with the computing engine
   wherein the thermal management system responds directly to a change in an activity
   level of the computing engine in real time.
   [0173]      A memory module mechanism includes a pair of end guides comprising a
   first and second end guides, connected by a supporting member, each end guide
20 including a slot to hold an end of a memory module and direct the memory module to
   a socket mounted on a circuit board, a lock mechanism configured to provide for
   rotation of the memory module mechanism between an unlocked position and a
   locked position, and an actuator attached to a first end guide in the pair of end guides,
   wherein a user actuates a rotating and locking function of the memory module
25 mechanism by applying a force to the actuator or to the supporting member, thereby
   rotating the memory module mechanism between the unlocked position and the
   locked position.
   [0174]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having an interior surface
   that defines a cylindrical volume having longitudinal axis and a computing engine
30 comprising a computational component mounted to a printed circuit board (PCB), the
   computing engine located within the cylindrical volume and having a generally
   triangular cross section that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis.
   [0175]      A desktop computing system includes a housing having a longitudinal axis
   that encloses and defines an internal volume that is symmetric about the longitudinal
                                             58

   1002139969
   axis, a computing engine disposed within the internal volume, and a structural heat
   sink positioned within the internal volume that provides structural support for the
   computing engine such that a shape of the computing engine corresponds to a shape
   of the structural heat sink and wherein the structural heat sink facilitates removal of
 5 heat from the internal volume.
   [0176]      A compact desktop computing system includes a housing having a
   longitudinal axis having a length L, wherein the housing encloses and defines an
   internal space that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis and having a volume V. a
   computing engine positioned within the internal space and a thermal management
10 system that is closely coupled with the computing engine wherein the thermal
   management system enables the computing engine to operate at a computational
   processing rate.
   [0177]      A desktop computing system includes a housing that defines an internal
   space, an air passage positioned within the internal space having a length that spans
15 an entire length of the housing, and a computational component disposed within the
   air passage wherein an amount of air that moves through the air passage is in
   accordance with a current operation of the computational component.
   [0178]      The foregoing description, for purposes of explanation, used specific
   nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However, it will
20 be apparent to one skilled in the art that the specific details are not required in order to
   practice the invention. Thus, the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of
   the present invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They
   are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms
   disclosed.    It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that many
25 modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings.
   [0179]      The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the
   principles of the invention and its practical applications, to thereby enable others
   skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various
   modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the
30 scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.
   [0180]      While the embodiments have been described in terms of several particular
   embodiments, there are alterations, permutations, and equivalents, which fall within
   the scope of these general concepts.       It should also be noted that there are many
   alternative ways of implementing the methods and apparatuses of the present
                                             59

1002139969
embodiments.      It is therefore intended that the following appended claims be
interpreted as including all such alterations, permutations, and equivalents as fall
within the true spirit and scope of the described embodiments.
                                          60

   1002139969
   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.       A desktop electronic device, comprising:
            an enclosure having a tubular shaped body characterized as having (i) a
 5 longitudinal axis, (ii) an overall shape that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis,
   and (iii) a radius having a fixed radial length and that is perpendicular to the
   longitudinal axis, the tubular shaped body having an opening suitable for passing an
   audible sound, and
            a circular base centered at and perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and
10 having a size corresponding to the fixed radial length, wherein the circular base is
   separably coupled to the tubular shaped body at a first opening of the tubular shaped
   body and is capable of supporting the tubular shaped body on a horizontal surface;
   and
            components comprising:
15          a circular printed circuit board (PCB) having a circular active surface on
   which are mounted electronic circuits, wherein the circular active surface is centered
   at and perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and is located in proximity to a second
   opening of the tubular shaped enclosure, the second opening being opposite from the
   first opening, and
20          a rectangular PCB having electronic circuits mounted thereto, wherein the
   rectangular PCB is parallel to and radially offset from the longitudinal axis a distance
   that is less than the fixed radial length.
   2.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the components
25 include
   an RF antenna in communication with an RF circuit, the RF antenna being used to
   facilitate a wireless communication over a wireless communication channel.
   3.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of the
30 components is capable of producing audible sound and is located in proximity to the
   opening.
   4.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the rectangular
   PCB is characterized as having a major dimension that is perpendicular to and longer
                                              61

   1002139969
   than a minor dimension, the rectangular PCB is positioned such that the major
   dimension is parallel to the longitudinal axis and both the major and minor
   dimensions are perpendicular to the radius.
 5 5.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the circular base
   includes an annular ring shaped portion at a circumference of the circular base.
   6.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 1, wherein the circular PCB
   is a first circular PCB and wherein the electronic circuits are first electronic circuits
10 and wherein the components further include:
            a second circular PCB that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and
   wherein at least a portion of which comprises a second active surface on which are
   mounted second electronic circuits.
15 7.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 6, wherein the second
   electronic circuits include a power supply circuit.
   8.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 1, further comprising:
            an air moving component capable of moving air in a direction aligned with the
20 longitudinal axis.
   9.       The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 8, wherein the air moving
   component is arranged perpendicular to and centered at the longitudinal axis and in
   proximity to the second opening.
25
   10.      A desktop electronic device comprising:
            a cylindrically shaped enclosure having a first openings suitable for passage of
   audible sound and the cylindrically shaped enclosure having a shape that is
   characterized as: (i) being symmetric about a longitudinal axis, and (ii) having a
30 radius having a fixed radial length at a first end of the enclosure, wherein a second
   opening is located at a second end, opposite the first end, and sized in accordance
   with the fixed radial length;
                                             62

   1002139969
            a circular base centered at and perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and
   separably attached to the enclosure at the second opening, wherein the circular base is
   capable of supporting the enclosure on a surface; and
            components positioned within an internal volume defined by the enclosure, the
 5 components comprising:
                    a rectangular printed circuit board (PCB) having a shape defined by a
            major dimension and a minor dimension that is shorter than the major
            dimension, wherein the rectangular PCB is positioned (i) parallel to the
            longitudinal axis, (ii) perpendicular to the radius and (iii) radially displaced
10          from the longitudinal axis a distance less than the radial length; and
                    a circular PCB that is (i) centered at and perpendicular to the
            longitudinal axis, and (ii) axially disposed from and perpendicular to the
            rectangular PCB.
15 11.      The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 10, wherein the components
   include a radio-frequency (RF) antenna capable of facilitating communication over a
   wireless communication channel.
   12.      The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 10, comprising:
20          an air moving component that is capable of moving air in a manner that is
   aligned with the longitudinal axis such that acoustic energy associated with the
   moving air passes through the first opening to the environment external to the
   cylindrically shaped enclosure.
25 13.      The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 10, wherein the circular PCB
   includes an active surface on which are mounted electronic circuits.
   14.      The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 13 wherein the circular PCB
   is a first circular PCB and wherein the electronic circuits are first electronic circuits
30 and wherein the components further include:
            a second PCB that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and wherein at
   least a portion of which comprises a second active surface on which are mounted
   second electronic circuits.
                                               63

   1002139969
   15.      The desktop electronic device as recited in claim 14, wherein the second
   electronic circuits include a power supply circuit.
   16.      A stand-alone electronic device for use on a horizontal surface, the stand-alone
 5 electronic device comprising:
            a tubular shaped enclosure 2710, 2712 characterized as having (i) a
   longitudinal axis, (ii) an overall shape that is symmetric about the longitudinal axis,
   and (iii) a radius having a fixed radial length and that is perpendicular to the
   longitudinal axis, the tubular shaped enclosure having a first opening capable of
10 passing acoustic energy from an internal volume defined by the tubular shaped
   enclosure to an environment external to the tubular shaped enclosure; and
            a circular base separably coupled to the tubular shaped enclosure at a second
   opening and that is capable of supporting the tubular shaped enclosure on the
   horizontal surface, wherein the circular base is centered at and perpendicular to the
15 longitudinal axis and has a size corresponding to the fixed radial length.
   17.      The stand-alone electronic device as recited in claim 16, further comprising:
            a rectangular printed circuit board (PCB) having a shape defined by a major
   dimension and a minor dimension that is shorter than the major dimension, wherein
20 the rectangular PCB is positioned (i) parallel to the longitudinal axis, (ii)
   perpendicular to the radius and (iii) radially displaced from the longitudinal axis a
   distance less than the radial length; and
            a circular PCB that is (i) centered at the longitudinal axis, and (ii) axially
   disposed from and perpendicular to the rectangular PCB.
25
   18.      The stand-alone electronic device as recited in claim 17, further comprising a
   radio-frequency (RF) antenna capable of facilitating communication over a wireless
   communication channel.
30 19.      The stand-alone electronic device as recited in claim 17, wherein the circular
   PCB includes an active surface on which are mounted electronic circuits.
   20.      The stand-alone electronic device as recited in claim 19 wherein the circular
   PCB is a first circular PCB, the active surface is a first active surface and wherein the
                                              64

  1002139969
  electronic circuits are first electronic circuit and wherein the components further
  include:
           a second PCB that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and wherein at
  least a portion of which comprises a second active surface on which are mounted
5 second electronic circuits.
                                           65

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
