                                                Abstract
The invention provides compositions and methods related to selective inhibition of polyphenol
oxidase 11 (PPO11) and use for improving shelf life and reduce browning of a plant or parts thereof.
The invention provides a method for identifying plants having reduced expression or lacking
expression of a PPO11 gene or ortholog thereof, a method for identifying a polymorphism
genetically linked to a PPO11 gene or ortholog thereof, a method of lettuce breeding comprising
assaying for the presence of genetic markers for reduced PPO11 expression, and a method of
identifying a lettuce plant that displays reduced browning or increased shelf life.

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR EXTENDING SHELF LIFE OF PLANT
                                            PRODUCTS
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         [001]   This application claims the priority of U.S. Provisional Appl. Ser. No.
61/704,602, filed September 24, 2012, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
                      INCORPORATION OF SEQUENCE LISTING
         [002]   The    sequence      listing  that is contained   in   the   file   named
"SEMB014WOST25," which is 13 kilobytes as measured in Microsoft Windows
operating system and was created on September 24, 2013, is filed electronically herewith
and incorporated herein by reference.
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         [003]   The present invention relates to methods and compositions for improving
shelf life of plants and plant parts.
                           DESCRIPTION OF RELATED ART
         [004]   Polyphenol oxidases (PPOs) are a group of copper-binding proteins,
widely distributed phylogenetically from bacteria to mammals, that catalyze the oxidation
of phenolics to quinones which produce brown pigments in wounded tissues. PPO has
been implicated in the formation of pigments, oxygen scavenging and defense
mechanism against plant pathogens and herbivorous insects. The oxidation of phenolic
substrates by PPO is thought to be the major cause of browning coloration of many fruits
and vegetables during ripening, handling, storage and processing.      This problem is of
considerable importance to the food industry as it affects the nutritional quality and
appearance, reduces the consumer acceptability and therefore also results in significant
economic impact, both to the food producers and to the food processing industry.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [005]   In one aspect, the invention provides compositions for topical application
                                                 1

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
to a plant or part thereof, comprising an amount of a Polyphenol Oxidase 11 (PPO 1l)
inhibitory compound effective to suppress expression of a PPOl 1 gene or ortholog
thereof, wherein expression of the PPO 11 gene or ortholog thereof in the absence of the
inhibitory compound positively correlates with browning of the plant or part thereof. The
composition may also comprise a transfer agent, a buffer, and/or an organosilicone
preparation as transfer agent.     The PPOl 1 inhibitory compound may comprise, for
example, a sense ssDNA, sense ssRNA, dsRNA, dsDNA, a double stranded DNA/RNA
hybrid, anti-sense ssDNA, or anti-sense ssRNA. In certain embodiments, the PPOl 1
inhibitory compound may comprise an antisense oligonucleotide or dsRNA, or a nucleic
acid encoding an antisense oligonucleotide or dsRNA effective to suppress expression of
PPO 11.     In further embodiments, the PPO 11 inhibitory compound may comprise a
polynucleotide molecule that is at least 18 to about 24, about 25 to about 50, about 51 to
about 100, about 101 to about 300, about 301 to about 500, or at least about 500 or more
nucleotides in length.    In additional embodiments, the plant may be lettuce and the
PPOl 1 gene may be encoded by a sequence comprising SEQ ID NO:9.                 The PPOl 1
inhibitory compound may comprise a polynucleotide comprising all or a part of a
polynucleotide selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-9, or a complement
thereof. In certain embodiments, the amount of PPO1 1 inhibitory compound is effective
to reduce browning, or increase shelf life, of a processed plant product.
         [006] In another aspect, the invention provides methods for reducing browning
or increasing shelf life of a plant, or part or product thereof, comprising topically
applying to a surface of the plant or a part thereof a composition described herein. In
certain embodiments, the plant is a potato, apple, spinach, or lettuce plant.          In one
embodiment, the plant is lettuce, and the PPO inhibitory compound comprises a
polynucleotide comprising at least 21 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:9, or a
complement thereof.
         [007]  In yet another aspect, the invention provides expression cassettes
comprising a selected DNA operably linked to a heterologous promoter, the selected
DNA encoding an antisense RNA, including dsRNA sequences, effective to suppress
expression of a PPOl 1 gene or ortholog thereof, wherein expression of the PPOl 1 gene
is positively correlated with browning or reduced shelf life of the plant, or part or product
                                              2

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
thereof. In certain embodiments, the promoter is a leaf-specific promoter.         In various
aspects, the selected DNA is operably linked to the promoter in antisense orientation;
and/ or the PPOl 1 gene encodes the polypeptide encoded by SEQ ID NO:9; the selected
DNA comprises all or a portion of a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ
ID NOs:1-9.      In certain embodiments, expression of the selected DNA induces gene
silencing, mRNA cleavage, or repressed translation of mRNA of a PPOl 1 gene.               In
further embodiments, the selected DNA is at least 90% identical to at least 200
contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:9 or a complement thereof; or comprises at least
18, 19, 20, 21, or 22 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:334 or a complement thereof;
and wherein transcription of the selected DNA suppresses expression of the PPO gene
that is positively correlated with browning or reduced shelf life of the plant, or portion or
product thereof. The invention also includes vectors comprising the expression cassette
described above.
         [008] In still yet another aspect, the invention provides transgenic plant
comprising the above described expression cassette. In certain embodiments, the plant
may be a dicot, a lettuce plant, an RO transgenic plant, a progeny plant of any generation
of an RO transgenic plant, wherein the transgenic plant has inherited the selected DNA
from the RO transgenic plant, and/or a progeny plant or a plant part derived therefrom that
exhibits improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses.
         [009] In still yet another aspect, the invention provides seed of the above
described transgenic plant, wherein the seed comprises the expression cassette. In certain
embodiments, the seed exhibits an improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses.
The invention also includes transgenic cells of the above described transgenic plant ,
wherein the cell comprises the expression cassette, a processed product of the plant or of
a progeny thereof, wherein the processed product exhibits an improved shelf life, and the
processed product, may be further defined as a head of lettuce, an apple fruit, a potato
tuber, or a portion or product thereof.
         [010] In certain further aspects, the invention provides methods of down
regulating activity of a PPO 11 gene in a plant, the methods comprising introducing into
the plant an expression cassette provided by the invention; and selecting a plant with
decreased PPO 11 activity compared to a plant in which the expression cassette has not
                                             3

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
been introduced. In certain embodiments, the PPOl 1 gene encodes mRNA comprising
SEQ ID NO:9, and the plant is lettuce.          The selected DNA may encode at least 21
continuous nucleotides of a PPOl 1 mRNA or a complement thereof, effective to down
regulate expression of PPO 11; the selected DNA may be operably linked to the promoter
in the antisense orientation; and/or be in sense and antisense orientation.        In certain
embodiments, introducing the expression cassette comprises plant breeding and/or
genetic transformation. In further embodiments, the polynucleotide may be an antisense
or RNAi construct, the selected DNA encodes a ribozyme or zinc-finger protein that
inhibits the expression of PPO 1l.      The plant may also be a lettuce, potato, apple, or
spinach plant.
        [011] In still further aspects, the invention provides methods for making human
food comprising obtaining a plant according to the invention, growing the plant under
plant growth conditions to produce plant tissue from the plant; and preparing food for
human or animal consumption from the plant tissue.
        [012]   In yet other aspects, the invention provides methods for identifying plants
having reduced expression or lacking expression of a PPOl 1 gene or ortholog thereof,
comprising obtaining a plurality of plants, in which expression is positively correlated
with browning or reduced shelf life of a processed product of the plant, selecting one or
more screened plants comprising decreased expression of the PPOl 1 gene or ortholog
thereof relative to expression of the PPOl 1 gene or ortholog thereof in a reference plant
of the same crop species, a parent plant, or an otherwise isogenic plant, and which
displays browning or reduced shelf life. In certain embodiments, the plurality of plants
are obtained by random mutagenesis, are transgenic plants, comprise 10, 100, or 1000 or
more plants, and/or are varieties of the same species of plants. In certain embodiments,
screening for expression of the PPO gene comprises determining an abundance of PPO 11
RNA, determining PPO activity, or determining abundance of a protein or RNA encoded
by SEQ ID NO:9. In certain embodiment, the method further comprises crossing the one
or more plants with reduced expression of PPO1Ito a different plant.
        [013]   In still yet another aspect, the invention provides methods for identifying a
polymorphism genetically linked to a PPOl 1 gene or ortholog thereof, comprising:
obtaining DNA of a population of plants wherein members of the population vary for
                                                4

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
expression of PPO 11; and identifying at least a first polymorphism in said population that
is associated with a reduced expression of PPO1 1 relative to members of the population
that do not comprise said polymorphism.
        [014]   In still yet another aspect, the invention provides methods of lettuce
breeding comprising assaying lettuce plants, or seeds that produce the lettuce plants, for
the presence of at least a first genetic marker genetically linked to a chromosomal region
conferring reduced PPO 11 expression relative to a plant lacking the region, wherein the
region is a low PPOll expression contributing QTL between 185700k and 185800k on
lettuce chromosome 4; and selecting at least a first lettuce plant or seed that produces the
plant comprising the genetic marker and the QTL that confers reduced expression of
PPO 11; and crossing the first plant with itself or a second plant to produce progeny plants
comprising the QTL that confers reduced expression of PPO.
        [015]   In still yet another aspect, the invention provides methods of identifying a
lettuce plant that displays reduced browning or increased shelf life comprising: detecting
in a first lettuce plant at least one allele of a marker that is associated with reduced
browning or increased shelf life, wherein the marker is genetically linked to a region
between 185700k and 185800k on lettuce chromosome 4.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [016]   FIG. 1: Eleven putative PPO genes exist in lettuce. Based on analysis of
nucleotide substitution per 100 nucleotide residues, the relative level of homology among
the PPO genes is shown.
        [017]   FIG. 2: Transcript abundances of the 11 lettuce PPO genes were assayed
at 0, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, 72, and 96 hours after harvest to identify which PPO genes
correlate in expression to the incidence of browning in untreated lettuce ribs.
Surprisingly, despite high homology among PPO genes, PPOl 1 was identified as the
transcript whose expression correlated with and predicted the visual browning phenotype.
        [018]   FIGs. 3A-B: Fig. 3A depicts a strong correlation between PPOll
expression levels 9 days after processing and cold storage with visual discoloration
ratings for two crisphead romaine cross and three iceberg varieties grown in San Juan
Bautista.   Each point represents the least square mean for a single cultivar with six
                                                5

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
biological replicates for both gene expression and visual ratings. Fig. 3B is a validation
experiment with 10 cultivars grown in Yuma, AZ again demonstrating a statistically
significant correlation between PPO1 1 expression levels 9 days after processing and cold
storage with visual discoloration ratings for two crisphead romaine cross, three iceberg,
and five Romaine cultivars. Each point represents the least square mean for a single
cultivar with six biological replicates for both gene expression and visual ratings. Iceberg
"ICE", crisphead-romaine cross "CRC," and romaine "ROM" lettuce.
         [019]  FIG. 4:    Plot of Visual Discoloration vs PAL1, TO; vs PPO2, TO; vs
PPOl 1, T9; vs PPO8, To. RQ PAL 1, To         = relative quantification to ubiquitin (RQ) for
phenylalanine lyase homolog 1 (PAL1) , at time 0 (To). This correlation matrix produced
in JMPv1O shows the individual variable, i.e. average visual browning scores on the
vertical axis in the row the variable is listed and on the horizontal axis in the column it is
listed.   Plotted are the most correlated gene expression at harvest or 9 days after
processing. PPO1 1 shows the largest range of expression (~200 to ~ 1000).
         [020]  FIG. 5: Depicted is a histogram of total PPO activity (uM * min-I * ug-1
conversion of catechol) for a population of 23 Romaine cultivars as assessed from central
midrib tissue at time of processing.       Counts on the vertical axis are the number of
cultivars with a U PPO activity in the indicated range. This shows from a selection of
elite Romaine cultivars that there is 3-fold range in total PPO activity in the central
midrib tissue. Sub-selections of the highest and lowest PPO activity cultivars from this
experiment were chosen to phenotype for visual discoloration/shelf life.
         [021]  FIG. 6:    PPO Enzymatic Activity Predictions of visual Discoloration.
Depicted is a bar chart of the visual discoloration for a subset of lines previously selected
to have the highest or lowest U PPO activity from a selection of 23 Romaine as described
(see Fig. 5).   Larger numbers on the vertical axis indicated more discoloration.        The
coded cultivars are grouped by previously determined high or low PPO activity. The
activity level was not predictive of shelf life, as two of the highest enzymatic activity
lines were the most resistant in discoloration phenotype.
                                               6

WO 2014/047653                                                          PCT/US2013/061475
               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEQUENCE LISTING
         [022]  SEQ ID NO:1 - PPOl 1_Triggerl sequence (189nt).
         [023]  SEQ ID NO:2 - PPO1 l_Trigger2 (225nt).
         [024]  SEQ ID NO:3 - PPO1 l_Trigger3 (225nt).
         [025]  SEQ ID NO:4 - PPO1 l_Trigger4 (226nt).
         [026]  SEQ ID NO:5 - PPO1 _antisense ssDNA (25nt).
         [027]  SEQ ID NO:6 - PPO1 _antisense ssDNA (25nt).
         [028]  SEQ ID NO:7 - PPO1 1_dsRNA (25nt).
         [029]  SEQ ID NO:8 - PPO1 1_dsRNA (25nt).
         [030]  SEQ ID NO:9 - Lactuca sativa (lettuce) deduced PPO1 mRNA (1922nt).
         [031]  SEQ ID NO:10 - PPO11 flanking sequence (Sequence Chr4:185719000
185720000).
         [032]  SEQ ID NO:11 - PPO11 flanking sequence (Sequence Chr4:1185723000
185724000).
         [033]  SEQ ID NOs:12 -34 - Gene-specific PCR primers.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         [034]  Polyphenol oxidases (PPOs) are a group of copper-binding proteins,
widely distributed phylogenetically from bacteria to mammals that catalyze the oxidation
of phenolics to quinones and produce brown pigments in wounded tissues. The present
invention overcomes the limitations of the prior art by providing novel methods,
compositions, and plants for extending shelf life of plant products by specific reduction
of expression of a PPO that positively correlates with browning in plants.      PPOl 1 of
lettuce provides a non-limiting example of a PPO that correlates with browning in lettuce.
It was recognized that expression of PPO1 1 increases over time after harvest and
correlates with reduced shelf life and increased browning. Compositions are disclosed
that comprise selective PPO inhibitory compounds to inhibit a specific PPO that
positively correlates with browning such as PPO 11, and methods to reduce browning or
increase shelf life.  Also disclosed are expression cassettes and vectors comprising a
selected DNA whose expression is effective to suppress expression of PPO 11, reduce
browning, and/or increase shelf life of plants or plant parts. Transgenic plants or plants
                                             7

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
comprising PPOll inhibitory compounds and methods of producing such are also
disclosed. Plants or plant varieties that harbor a PPO gene or promoter mutations that
result in reduced PPO gene expression and methods of assaying PPO gene expression as
a proxy for browning are also disclosed herein. In particular embodiments, the PPO gene
that positively correlates with browning is a PPO ll gene from lettuce and/or the
corresponding ortholog from apple or potato. In addition, methods of producing PPO
genes with reduced expression are provided.
         Definitions
         [035]   In the description and tables herein, a number of terms are used. In order
to provide a clear and consistent understanding of the specification and claims, the
following definitions are provided. Unless otherwise noted, terms are to be understood
according to conventional usage by those of ordinary skill in the relevant art.
         [036]   Where a term is provided in the singular, the inventors also contemplate
aspects of the invention described by the plural of that term.
         [037]   As used herein, the term "selective PPO inhibitory compound" refers to a
compound that suppresses or reduces an activity of PPO enzymatic activity, or expression
of PPO, such as for example synthesis of mRNA encoding a PPO polypeptide
(transcription) and/or synthesis of a PPO polypeptide from PPO mRNA (translation). In
some embodiments the selective PPO inhibitory compound specifically inhibits a PPO
that positively correlates with browning of the plant. In certain embodiments, the PPO
inhibitory compound is an inhibitor of PPO ll or the corresponding gene in apple or
potatoes.
         [038]   As used herein, a PPO that positively correlates with browning of the plant
refers to a specific PPO homolog that exhibits an increase of expression after harvest
when the browning/discoloration increases or occurs.          In certain embodiments, the
increase of expression is observed during the period of 36 hrs after harvest. The PPO that
positively correlates with browning of the plant (plant surface or parts of a plant) also
exhibits an increase of expression that correlates with visual discoloration of the plant
surface. In certain embodiments, such PPO is PPO 11. In certain embodiments, the PPO
is a homolog of PPO ll of lettuce correlated with the presence of browning, such as from
apple or potato, which may therefore be targeted for reduction of browning.
                                               8

WO 2014/047653                                                              PCT/US2013/061475
         [039]  As used herein, the term "expression cassette" refers to a DNA sequence
that comprises a selected DNA to be transcribed. In addition, the expression cassette
comprises at least all DNA elements required for expression.                 After successful
transformation, the expression cassette directs the cell's machinery to make RNA. In
certain embodiments, the expression cassette is an iRNA or siRNA expression cassette
that suppresses expression of a PPO that positively correlates with browning of a plant.
         [040]  Different expression cassettes can be transformed into different organisms
including bacteria, yeast, plants, and mammalian cells as long as the correct regulatory
sequences are used.
         [041] As used herein, the term "abundance of a protein" refers to the amount of
the specific protein relative to the amount of total protein or relative to the weight or
volume of the cell, tissue, plant, or plant part tested.
         [042]  As used herein, the term "abundance of a mRNA" refers to the amount of
the specific mRNA relative to the amount of total protein or relative to the weight or
volume of the cell, tissue, plant, or plant part tested.
         [043]  As used herein, the term "expression" refers to the combination of
intracellular processes, including transcription and translation undergone by a coding
DNA molecule such as a structural gene to produce a polypeptide.
         [044]  As used herein, the term "genetic transformation" refers to process of
introducing a DNA sequence or construct (e.g., a vector or expression cassette) into a cell
or protoplast in which that exogenous DNA is incorporated into a chromosome or is
capable of autonomous replication.
         [045]  As used herein, the term "heterologous" refers to a sequence which is not
normally present in a given host genome in the genetic context in which the sequence is
currently found In this respect, the sequence may be native to the host genome, but be
rearranged with respect to other genetic sequences within the host sequence.                For
example, a regulatory sequence may be heterologous in that it is linked to a different
coding sequence relative to the native regulatory sequence.
         [046]  As used herein, the term "obtaining" when used in conjunction with a
transgenic plant cell or transgenic plant, means either for 1) transforming a non
transgenic plant cell or plant to create the transgenic plant cell or plant, or for 2) planting
                                               9

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
transgenic plant seed to produce the transgenic plant cell or plant.     Such a transgenic
plant seed may be from an Ro transgenic plant or may be from a progeny of any
generation thereof that inherits a given transgenic sequence from a starting transgenic
parent plant.
        [047]   As used herein, the term "promoter" refers to a recognition site on a DNA
sequence or group of DNA sequences that provides an expression control element for a
structural gene and to which RNA polymerase specifically binds and initiates RNA
synthesis (transcription) of that gene
        [048]   As used herein, the term "Ro transgenic plant" refers to a plant that has
been genetically transformed or has been regenerated from a plant cell or cells that have
been genetically transformed.
        [049]   As used herein, the term "regeneration" refers to the process of growing a
plant from a plant cell (e.g., plant protoplast, callus or explant).
        [050]   As used herein, the term "transformation construct" refers to a chimeric
DNA molecule which is designed for introduction into a host genome by genetic
transformation.    Preferred transformation constructs will comprise all of the genetic
elements necessary to direct the expression of one or more exogenous genes.             In
particular embodiments of the instant invention, it may be desirable to introduce a
transformation construct into a host cell in the form of an expression cassette.
        [051]   As used herein, the term "transformed cell" refers to a cell the DNA
complement of which has been altered by the introduction of an exogenous DNA
molecule into that cell.
        [052]   As used herein, the term "transgene" refers to a segment of DNA which
has been incorporated into a host genome or is capable of autonomous replication in a
host cell and is capable of causing the expression of one or more coding sequences.
Exemplary transgenes will provide the host cell, or plants regenerated therefrom, with a
novel phenotype relative to the corresponding non-transformed cell or plant. Transgenes
may be directly introduced into a plant by genetic transformation, or may be inherited
from a plant of any previous generation which was transformed with the DNA segment.
        [053]   As used herein, the term "transgenic plant" refers to a plant or progeny
plant of any subsequent generation derived therefrom, wherein the DNA of the plant or
                                                10

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
progeny thereof contains an introduced exogenous DNA segment not naturally present in
a non-transgenic plant of the same strain. The transgenic plant may additionally contain
sequences which are native to the plant being transformed, but wherein the "exogenous"
gene has been altered in order to alter the level or pattern of expression of the gene, for
example, by use of one or more heterologous regulatory or other elements.
        [054]   As used herein, the term "vector" refers to a DNA molecule designed for
transformation into a host cell. Some vectors may be capable of replication in a host cell.
A plasmid is an exemplary vector, as are expression cassettes isolated therefrom.
        [055]   As used herein, the terms        "DNA," "DNA molecule,"         and "DNA
polynucleotide molecule" refer to a single-stranded DNA or double-stranded DNA
molecule of genomic or synthetic origin, such as, a polymer of deoxyribonucleotide bases
or a DNA polynucleotide molecule.
        [056]   As used herein, the terms "DNA sequence," "DNA nucleotide sequence,"
and "DNA polynucleotide sequence" refer to the nucleotide sequence of a DNA
molecule.    ssDNA refers to single-stranded DNA; dsDNA refers to double-stranded
DNA.
        [057]   As used herein, the term "gene" refers to any portion of a nucleic acid that
provides for expression of a transcript or encodes a transcript. A "gene" thus includes,
but is not limited to, a promoter region, 5' untranslated regions, transcript encoding
regions that can include intronic regions, and 3' untranslated regions.
        [058]   As used herein, the terms        "RNA," "RNA molecule,"         and "RNA
polynucleotide molecule" refer to a single-stranded RNA or double-stranded RNA
molecule of genomic or synthetic origin, such as, a polymer of ribonucleotide bases that
comprise single or double stranded regions. ssRNA specifically refers to single-stranded
RNA; ds refers to double-stranded RNA.
        [059]   Unless otherwise stated, nucleotide sequences         in the text of this
specification are given, when read from left to right, in the 5' to 3' direction.       The
nomenclature used herein is that required by Title 37 of the United States Code of
Federal Regulations § 1.822 and set forth in the tables in WIPO Standard ST.25 (1998),
Appendix 2, Tables 1 and 3.
        [060]   As used herein, a "plant surface" refers to any exterior portion of a plant.
                                             11

WO 2014/047653                                                              PCT/US2013/061475
Plant surfaces thus include, but are not limited to, the surfaces of flowers, stems, tubers,
fruit, anthers, pollen, leaves, roots, or seeds. A plant surface can be on a portion of a
plant that is attached to other portions of a plant or on a portion of a plant that is detached
from the plant.
         [061] As used herein, the phrase "polynucleotide is not operably linked to a
promoter" refers to a polynucleotide that is not covalently linked to a polynucleotide
promoter sequence that is specifically recognized by either a DNA dependent RNA
polymerase II protein or by a viral RNA dependent RNA polymerase in such a manner
that the polynucleotide will be transcribed by the DNA dependent RNA polymerase II
protein or viral RNA dependent RNA polymerase. A polynucleotide that is not operably
linked to a promoter can be transcribed by a plant RNA dependent RNA polymerase.
         [062]   As used herein, a polynucleotides may be in the form of ssDNA,
encompass dsDNA equivalents,           dsRNA equivalents,       ssRNA equivalents,      ssRNA
complements, ssDNA as shown, and ssDNA complements.
         [063]           As used herein, a first nucleic-acid sequence, selected DNA, or
polynucleotide is "operably" connected or "linked" with a second nucleic acid sequence
when the first nucleic acid sequence is placed in a functional relationship with the second
nucleic acid sequence. For instance, a promoter is operably linked to an RNA and/or
protein-coding sequence, or a sequence encoding an iRNA, an siRNA, or a nucleic acid
encoding an antisense oligonucleotide if the promoter provides for transcription or
expression of the RNA or coding sequence. Generally, operably linked DNA sequences
are contiguous and, where necessary to join two protein-coding regions, are in the same
reading frame. Selected DNA refers to a DNA segment which one desires to introduce or
has introduced into a plant genome by genetic transformation
         [064]    In certain embodiment, the selected DNA is an antisense or RNAi
construct. In another embodiment, the selected DNA encodes a ribozyme, or zinc-finger
protein.
         [065]   As used herein, the phrase "organosilicone preparation" refers to a liquid
comprising one or more organosilicone compounds, wherein the liquid or components
contained therein, when combined with a polynucleotide in a composition that is
topically applied to a target plant surface, enable the polynucleotide to enter a plant cell.
                                                12

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
Exemplary organosilicone preparations include, but are not limited to, preparations
marketed under the trade names "Silwet®" or " BREAK-THRU®" and preparations
provided in the following Table. In certain embodiments, an organosilicone preparation
can enable a polynucleotide to enter a plant cell in a manner permitting a polynucleotide
mediated suppression of target gene expression in the plant cell.
        [066]   As used herein, the phrases "reduced browning," "increased shelf life,"
"improved shelf life," "reduced postharvest losses," or "improving shelf life and reducing
postharvest losses" refer to any measurable increase in shelf life, reduction in browning,
or reduction in postharvest loss observed in a plant or part thereof subjected to the present
invention when compared to the plant or part thereof not subjected to the present
invention. In certain embodiments, an increase in shelf life or reduction in postharvest
loss in a plant or plant part can be determined in a comparison to a control plant or plant
part that has not been treated with a composition comprising a polynucleotide and a
transfer agent.    When used in this context, a control plant is a plant that has not
undergone treatment with a PPO inhibitory compound or a polynucleotide, non
transgenic plants, or plants not exhibiting reduced expression of a PPO. Such control
plants would include, but are not limited to, untreated plants or mock treated plants. In
certain embodiments, the phrases relate to non-transgenic plants or plants that do not
comprise an expression cassette that effectively suppresses PPO activity.
        [067]   As used herein, the phrase "provides for a reduction," "effective to
suppress," and "effectively suppresses" when used in the context of a transcript or a
protein in a plant or plant part, refers to any measurable decrease in the level of transcript
or protein in a plant or plant part. Thus, expression of a gene can be suppressed when
there is a reduction in levels of a transcript from the gene, a reduction in levels of a
protein encoded by the gene, a reduction in the activity of the transcript from the gene, a
reduction in the activity of a protein encoded by the gene, any one of the preceding
conditions, or any combination of the preceding conditions. In this context, the activity
of a transcript includes, but is not limited to, its ability to be translated into a protein
and/or to exert any RNA-mediated biologic or biochemical effect. In this context, the
activity of a protein includes, but is not limited to, its ability to exert any protein
mediated biologic or biochemical effect. In certain embodiments, a suppression of gene
                                               13

WO 2014/047653                                                               PCT/US2013/061475
expression in a plant or plant part can be determined in a comparison of gene product
levels or activities in a treated plant to a control plant or plant part that has not been
treated with a composition comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer agent. When used
in this context, a control plant or plant part is a plant or plant part that has not undergone
treatment with polynucleotide and a transfer agent. Such control plants or plant parts
would include, but are not limited to, untreated or mock treated plants and plant parts. In
certain embodiments, a reduction of the level of a transcript or protein in a plant or plant
part can be determined in a comparison to a control plant or plant part that has not been
treated with a composition comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer agent. When used
in this context, a control plant or plant part is a plant or plant part that has not undergone
treatment with a PPO inhibitory compound, a polynucleotide.             Such control plants or
plant parts would include, but are not limited to, untreated or mock treated plants and
plant parts. In certain embodiments, the phrases relate to non-transgenic plants or plants
that do not comprise an expression cassette that having the continuous nucleotides of a
PPO gene, or a plant that does not comprise a transgene.
         [068] As used herein, the phrase "wherein said plant does not comprise a
transgene" refers to a plant that lacks either a DNA molecule comprising a promoter that
is operably linked to a polynucleotide or a recombinant viral vector.
         [069]  As used herein, the term "transcript" corresponds to any RNA that is
produced from a gene by the process of transcription. A transcript of a gene can thus
comprise a primary transcription product which can contain introns or can comprise a
mature RNA that lacks introns.
         [070]  As used herein, "polynucleotide" may refer to a DNA or RNA molecule
containing multiple nucleotides and generally refers both to "oligonucleotides"             (a
polynucleotide molecule of 18-25 nucleotides in length) and longer polynucleotides of 26
or more nucleotides.     Embodiments of this invention include compositions including
oligonucleotides having a length of 18-25 nucleotides (18-mers, 19-mers, 20-mers, 21
mers, 22-mers,      23-mers, 24-mers,      or 25-mers),     and longer,     or medium-length
polynucleotides having a length of 26 or more nucleotides (polynucleotides of 26, 27, 28,
29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44,45,46,47,48,49,50,51,52,
53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, about 65, about 70, about 75, about 80, about 85, about 90,
                                               14

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
about 95, about 100, about 110, about 120, about 130, about 140, about 150, about 160,
about 170, about 180, about 190, about 200, about 210, about 220, about 230, about 240,
about 250, about 260, about 270, about 280, about 290, or about 300 nucleotides), or long
polynucleotides having a length greater than about 300 nucleotides (e.g., polynucleotides
of between about 300 to about 400 nucleotides, between about 400 to about 500
nucleotides, between about 500 to about 600 nucleotides, between about 600 to about 700
nucleotides, between about 700 to about 800 nucleotides, between about 800 to about 900
nucleotides, between about 900 to about 1000 nucleotides, between about 300 to about
500 nucleotides, between about 300 to about 600 nucleotides, between about 300 to about
700 nucleotides, between about 300 to about 800 nucleotides, between about 300 to about
900 nucleotides, or about 1000 nucleotides in length, or even greater than about 1000
nucleotides in length, for example up to the entire length of a target Polyphenol oxidase
(PPO) gene, such as PPOl 1 including coding or non-coding or both coding and non
coding portions of the target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene). Where a polynucleotide is
double-stranded, its length can be similarly described in terms of base pairs.
        [071]  Polynucleotide compositions used in the various embodiments of this
invention include compositions including oligonucleotides, polynucleotides, or a mixture
of both, including: RNA or DNA or RNA/DNA hybrids or chemically modified
oligonucleotides or polynucleotides or a mixture thereof. In certain embodiments, the
polynucleotide may be a combination of ribonucleotides and deoxyribonucleotides, for
example, synthetic polynucleotides consisting mainly of ribonucleotides but with one or
more terminal deoxyribonucleotides or synthetic polynucleotides consisting mainly of
deoxyribonucleotides but with one or more terminal dideoxyribonucleotides.         In certain
embodiments, the polynucleotide includes non-canonical nucleotides such as inosine,
thiouridine, or pseudouridine.    In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide includes
chemically modified nucleotides. Examples of chemically modified oligonucleotides or
polynucleotides are well known in the art; see, for example, U.S. Patent Publication
2011/0171287,    U.S.    Patent  Publication   2011/0171176,    U.S.     Patent   Publication
2011/0152353, U.S. Patent Publication 2011/0152346, and U.S. Patent Publication
2011/0160082, which are herein incorporated by reference.             Illustrative examples
include, but are not limited to, the naturally occurring phosphodiester backbone of an
                                             15

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
oligonucleotide or polynucleotide which can be partially or completely modified with
phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, or methylphosphonate internucleotide linkage
modifications,    modified nucleoside     bases or modified sugars       can be used in
oligonucleotide or polynucleotide synthesis, and oligonucleotides or polynucleotides can
be labeled with a fluorescent moiety (e.g., fluorescein or rhodamine) or other label (e.g.,
biotin).
         [072]   Polynucleotides can be single- or double-stranded RNA, single- or double
stranded DNA, double-stranded DNA/RNA hybrids, and modified analogues thereof. In
certain embodiments of the invention, the polynucleotides that provide single-stranded
RNA in the plant cell may be:        (a) a single-stranded RNA molecule (ssRNA), (b) a
single-stranded RNA molecule that self-hybridizes to form a double-stranded RNA
molecule, (c) a double-stranded RNA molecule (dsRNA), (d) a single-stranded DNA
molecule (ssDNA), (e) a single-stranded DNA molecule that self-hybridizes to form a
double-stranded DNA molecule, (f) a single-stranded DNA molecule including a
modified Pol III gene that is transcribed to an RNA molecule, (g) a double-stranded DNA
molecule (dsDNA), (h) a double-stranded DNA molecule including a modified Pol III
gene that is transcribed to an RNA molecule, and (i) a double-stranded, hybridized
RNA/DNA        molecule, or combinations thereof.         In certain embodiments,    these
polynucleotides can comprise both ribonucleic acid residues and deoxyribonucleic acid
residues.   In certain embodiments, these polynucleotides include chemically modified
nucleotides or non-canonical nucleotides.     In certain embodiments of the methods, the
polynucleotides include double-stranded DNA formed by intramolecular hybridization,
double-stranded DNA formed by intermolecular hybridization, double-stranded RNA
formed     by   intramolecular   hybridization,   or   double-stranded  RNA   formed    by
intermolecular hybridization.     In certain embodiments where the polynucleotide is a
dsRNA, the anti-sense strand will comprise at least 18 nucleotides that are essentially
complementary to the target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene. In certain embodiments the
polynucleotides     include single-stranded DNA       or single-stranded RNA that self
hybridizes to form a hairpin structure having an at least partially double-stranded
structure including at least one segment that will hybridize to RNA transcribed from the
gene targeted for suppression.      Not intending to be bound by any mechanism, it is
                                              16

WO 2014/047653                                                               PCT/US2013/061475
believed that such polynucleotides are or will produce single-stranded RNA with at least
one segment that will hybridize to RNA transcribed from the gene targeted for
suppression. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides can be operably linked to a
promoter - generally a promoter functional in a plant, for example, a pol II promoter, a
pol III promoter, a pol IV promoter, or a pol V promoter.
         [073]   The polynucleotide molecules of the present invention are designed to
modulate expression by inducing regulation or suppression of an endogenous Polyphenol
oxidase (PPO) gene, such as PPO 11, to reduce expression of PPO1 1 in a plant and are
designed to have a nucleotide sequence essentially identical or essentially complementary
to the nucleotide sequence of an endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene of a plant or
to the sequence of RNA transcribed from an endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene
of a plant, which can be coding sequence or non-coding sequence.               These effective
polynucleotide molecules that modulate expression are referred to herein as "a trigger, or
triggers". By "essentially identical" or "essentially complementary" it is meant that the
trigger polynucleotides (or at least one strand of a double-stranded polynucleotide) have
sufficient identity or complementarity to the endogenous gene or to the RNA transcribed
from the endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene (e.g., the transcript) to suppress
expression of the endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene (e.g., to effect a reduction
in levels or activity of the gene transcript and/or encoded protein).                In certain
embodiments, the trigger polynucleotides provided herein can be directed to a Polyphenol
oxidase (PPO) transgene present in the plant.           Polynucleotides of the methods and
compositions provided herein need not have 100 percent identity to a complementarity to
the endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene or to the RNA transcribed from the
endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene (i.e., the transcript) to suppress expression of
the endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene (i.e., to effect a reduction in levels or
activity of the gene transcript or encoded protein). Thus, in certain embodiments, the
polynucleotide or a portion thereof is designed to be essentially identical to, or essentially
complementary to, a sequence of at least 18 or 19 contiguous nucleotides in either the
target gene or messenger RNA transcribed from the target gene (e.g., the transcript). In
certain embodiments, an "essentially identical" polynucleotide has 100 percent sequence
identity or at least about 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, or 99
                                               17

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
percent sequence identity when compared to the sequence of 18 or more contiguous
nucleotides in either the endogenous target gene or to an RNA transcribed from the target
gene (e.g., the transcript).    In certain embodiments, an "essentially complementary"
polynucleotide has 100 percent sequence complementarity or at least about 83, 84, 85,
86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, or 99 percent sequence complementarity
when compared to the sequence of 18 or more contiguous nucleotides in either the target
gene or RNA transcribed from the target gene.
        [074] In certain embodiments,         polynucleotides used in the methods and
compositions provided herein can be essentially identical or essentially complementary to
any of: i) conserved regions of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes of both monocot and
dicot plants; ii) conserved regions of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes of monocot plants;
or iii) conserved regions of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes of dicot plants.            Such
polynucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to such
conserved regions can be used to improve shelf life and reduce postharvest losses by
suppressing expression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes in various dicot and/or
monocot plants.
        [075]    Polynucleotides containing mismatches to the target gene or transcript can
thus be used in certain embodiments of the compositions and methods provided herein.
In certain embodiments, a polynucleotide can comprise at least 19 contiguous nucleotides
that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to said gene or said transcript
or comprises at least 19 contiguous nucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially
complementary to the target gene or target gene transcript. In certain embodiments, a
polynucleotide of 19 continuous nucleotides that is essentially identical or essentially
complementary to the endogenous target gene or to a RNA transcribed from the target
gene (e.g., the transcript) can have 1 or 2 mismatches to the target gene or transcript. In
certain embodiments, a polynucleotide of 20 or more nucleotides that contains a
contiguous 19 nucleotide span of identity or complementarity to the endogenous target
gene or to an RNA transcribed from the target gene can have 1 or 2 mismatches to the
target gene or transcript. In certain embodiments, a polynucleotide of 21 continuous
nucleotides that is essentially identical or essentially complementary to the endogenous
target gene or to an RNA transcribed from the target gene (e.g., the transcript) can have 1,
                                               18

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
2, or 3 mismatches to the target gene or transcript.           In certain embodiments, a
polynucleotide of 22 or more nucleotides that contains a contiguous 21 nucleotide span of
identity or complementarity to the endogenous target gene or to an RNA transcribed from
the target gene can have 1, 2, or 3 mismatches to the target gene or transcript.          In
designing polynucleotides with mismatches to an endogenous target gene or to an RNA
transcribed from the target gene, mismatches of certain types and at certain positions that
are more likely to be tolerated can be used.         In certain exemplary embodiments,
mismatches formed between adenine and cytosine or guanosine and uracil residues are
used as described by Du et al. Nucleic Acids Research, 2005, Vol. 33, No. 5 1671-1677.
In certain exemplary embodiments, mismatches in 19 base pair overlap regions can be at
the low tolerance positions 5, 7, 8 or 11 (from the 5' end of a 19 nucleotide target) with
well tolerated nucleotide mismatch residues, at medium tolerance positions 3, 4, and 12
17, and/or at the high tolerance nucleotide positions at either end of the region of
complementarity (i.e., positions 1, 2, 18, and 19) as described by Du et al. Nucleic Acids
Research, 2005, Vol. 33, No. 5 1671-1677.          It is further anticipated that tolerated
mismatches can be empirically determined in assays where the polynucleotide is applied
to the plants via the methods provided herein and the treated plants assayed for
suppression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene expression or appearance of improved
shelf life and reduced postharvest losses.
         [076]   In certain embodiments, polynucleotide molecules are designed to have
100 percent sequence identity with or complementarity to one allele or one family
member of a given target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene coding or non-coding
sequence. Target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes include both the Polyphenol oxidase
(PPO) genes of SEQ ID NO:1-23 as well as orthologous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes
obtainable from other crops. In other embodiments, the polynucleotide molecules are
designed to have 100 percent sequence identity with or complementarity to multiple
alleles or family members of a given target gene.
         [077]   In certain embodiments, polynucleotide       compositions     and methods
provided herein typically effect regulation or modulation (e. g., suppression) of gene
expression during a period during the life of the treated plant of at least 1 week or longer
and typically in systemic fashion. For instance, within days of treating a plant leaf with a
                                             19

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
polynucleotide composition of this invention, primary and transitive siRNAs can be
detected in other leaves lateral to and above the treated leaf and in apical tissue. In
certain embodiments, methods of systemically suppressing expression of a gene in a
plant, the methods comprising treating said plant with a composition comprising at least
one polynucleotide and a transfer agent, wherein said polynucleotide comprises at least
18 or at least 19 contiguous nucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially
complementary to a gene or a transcript encoding a Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene of
the plant are provided, whereby expression of the gene in said plant or progeny thereof is
systemically suppressed in comparison to a control plant that has not been treated with
the composition.
         [078] Compositions used to suppress a target gene can comprise one or more
polynucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to multiple
genes, or to multiple segments of one or more genes.              In certain embodiments,
compositions used to suppress a target gene can comprise one or more polynucleotides
that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to multiple consecutive
segments of a target gene, multiple non-consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple
alleles of a target gene, or multiple target genes from one or more species.
         [079]   In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide includes two or more copies of
a nucleotide sequence (of 18 or more nucleotides) where the copies are arranged in
tandem fashion. In another embodiment, the polynucleotide includes two or more copies
of a nucleotide sequence (of 18 or more nucleotides) where the copies are arranged in
inverted repeat fashion (forming an at least partially self-complementary strand).      The
polynucleotide can include both tandem and inverted-repeat copies. Whether arranged in
tandem or inverted repeat fashion, each copy can be directly contiguous to the next, or
pairs of copies can be separated by an optional spacer of one or more nucleotides. The
optional spacer can be unrelated sequence (i.e., not essentially identical to or essentially
complementary to the copies, nor essentially identical to, or essentially complementary
to, a sequence of 18 or more contiguous nucleotides of the endogenous target gene or
RNA transcribed from the endogenous target gene). Alternatively the optional spacer can
include sequence that is complementary to a segment of the endogenous target gene
adjacent to the segment that is targeted by the copies.        In certain embodiments, the
                                               20

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
polynucleotide includes two copies of a nucleotide sequence of between about 20 to
about 30 nucleotides, where the two copies are separated by a spacer no longer than the
length of the nucleotide sequence.
         Tiling
         [080] Polynucleotide trigger molecules can be identified by "tiling" gene targets
in random length fragments, e.g., 200-300 polynucleotides in length, with partially
overlapping regions, e.g., 25 or so nucleotide overlapping regions along the length of the
target gene. Multiple gene target sequences can be aligned and polynucleotide sequence
regions with homology in common are identified as potential trigger molecules for
multiple targets.   Multiple target sequences can be aligned and sequence regions with
poor homology are identified as potential trigger molecules for selectively distinguishing
targets. To selectively suppress a single gene, trigger sequences may be chosen from
regions that are unique to the target gene either from the transcribed region or the non
coding regions, e.g., promoter regions, 3' untranslated regions, introns and the like.
         [081] Polynucleotide fragments are designed along the length of the full length
coding and untranslated regions of a Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene or family member
as contiguous overlapping fragments of 200-300 polynucleotides in length or fragment
lengths representing a percentage of the target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene. These
fragments are applied topically (as sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or
dsDNA) to determine the relative effectiveness in providing the improved shelf life and
reduced postharvest losses phenotype. Fragments providing the desired activity may be
further subdivided into 50-60 polynucleotide fragments which are evaluated for providing
the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses phenotype.          The 50-60 base
fragments with the desired activity may then be further subdivided into 19-30 base
fragments which are evaluated for providing the improved shelf life and reduced
postharvest losses phenotype.    Once relative effectiveness is determined, the fragments
are utilized singly, or in combination in one or more pools to determine effective trigger
composition or mixture of trigger polynucleotides for providing the improved shelf life
and reduced postharvest losses phenotype.
         [082]  Coding and/or non-coding sequences of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene
families in the crop of interest are aligned and 200-300 polynucleotide fragments from
                                             21

WO 2014/047653                                                          PCT/US2013/061475
the least homologous regions amongst the aligned sequences are evaluated using
topically applied polynucleotides (as sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or
dsDNA) to determine their relative effectiveness in providing the improved shelf life and
reduced postharvest losses phenotype. The effective segments are further subdivided into
50-60 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by least homology, and reevaluated using
topically applied polynucleotides. The effective 50-60 polynucleotide fragments are
subdivided into 19-30 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by least homology, and again
evaluated for induction of the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses
phenotype. Once relative effectiveness is determined, the fragments are utilized singly,
or again evaluated in combination with one or more other fragments to determine the
trigger composition or mixture of trigger polynucleotides for providing the yield/quality
phenotype.
        [083] Coding and/or non-coding sequences of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene
families in the crop of interest are aligned and 200-300 polynucleotide fragments from
the most homologous regions amongst the aligned sequences are evaluated using
topically applied polynucleotides (as sense or anti-sense ssDNA or ssRNA, dsRNA, or
dsDNA) to determine their relative effectiveness in inducing the improved shelf life and
reduced postharvest losses phenotype. The effective segments are subdivided into 50-60
polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by most homology, and reevaluated using topically
applied polynucleotides. The effective 50-60 polynucleotide fragments are subdivided
into 19-30 polynucleotide fragments, prioritized by most homology, and again evaluated
for induction of the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses phenotype. Once
relative effectiveness is determined, the fragments may be utilized singly, or in
combination with one or more other fragments to determine the trigger composition or
mixture of trigger polynucleotides for providing the improved shelf life and reduced
postharvest losses phenotype.
        [084] Also,    provided   herein   are  methods   for   identifying  a  preferred
polynucleotide for providing improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses in a
plant.    Populations of candidate polynucleotides that are essentially identical or
essentially complementary to a Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene or transcript of the
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene can be generated by a variety of approaches, including
                                            22

WO 2014/047653                                                         PCT/US2013/061475
but not limited to, any of the tiling, least homology, or most homology approaches
provided herein. Such populations of polynucleotides can also be generated or obtained
from any of the polynucleotides or genes provided herewith provided in the sequence
listing. Such populations of polynucleotides can also be generated or obtained from any
genes that are orthologous to the genes provided herewith in the sequence listing. Such
polynucleotides can be topically applied to a surface of plants in a composition
comprising at least one polynucleotide from said population and a transfer agent to obtain
treated plants. Treated plants that exhibit suppression of the Polyphenol oxidase (PPO)
gene and/or exhibit an improvement in improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses
are identified, thus identifying a preferred polynucleotide that improves improved shelf
life and reduced postharvest losses in a plant. Suppression of the Polyphenol oxidase
(PPO) gene can be determined by any assay for the levels and/or activity of a Polyphenol
oxidase (PPO) gene product (i.e., transcript or protein). Suitable assays for transcripts
include, but are not limited to, semi-quantitative or quantitative reverse transcriptase
PCR@ (qRT-PCR) assays. Suitable assays for proteins include, but are not limited to,
semi-quantitative   or quantitative    immunoassays,   biochemical   activity assays, or
biological activity assays. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides can be applied
alone. In other embodiments, the polynucleotides can be applied in pools of multiple
polynucleotides.    When a pool of polynucleotides provides for suppression of the
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene and/or an improvement in improved shelf life and
reduced postharvest losses are identified, the pool can be de-replicated and retested as
necessary or desired to identify one or more preferred polynucleotide(s) that improve
improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses in a plant.
         [085]  Methods of making polynucleotides are well known in the art.         Such
methods of making polynucleotides can include in vivo biosynthesis, in vitro enzymatic
synthesis, or chemical synthesis. In certain embodiments, RNA molecules can be made
by either in vivo or in vitro synthesis from DNA templates where a suitable promoter is
operably linked to the polynucleotide and a suitable DNA -dependent RNA polymerase
is provided. DNA -dependent RNA polymerases include, but are not limited to, E. coli
or other bacterial RNA polymerases as well as the bacteriophage RNA polymerases such
as the T7, T3, and SP6 RNA polymerases. Commercial preparation of oligonucleotides
                                             23

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
often provides two deoxyribonucleotides on the 3' end of the sense strand.              Long
polynucleotide molecules can be synthesized from commercially available kits, for
example, kits from Applied Biosystems/Ambion (Austin, TX) have DNA ligated on the
5' end that encodes a bacteriophage T7 polymerase promoter that makes RNA strands
that can be assembled into a dsRNA. Alternatively, dsRNA molecules can be produced
from expression cassettes in bacterial cells that have regulated or deficient RNase III
enzyme activity. Long polynucleotide molecules can also be assembled from multiple
RNA or DNA fragments.        In some embodiments design parameters such as Reynolds
score (Reynolds et al. Nature Biotechnology 22, 326 - 330 (2004) and Tuschl rules (Pei
and Tuschl, Nature Methods 3(9): 670-676, 2006) are known in the art and are used in
selecting polynucleotide sequences effective in gene silencing. In some embodiments
random design or empirical selection of polynucleotide sequences is used in selecting
polynucleotide sequences effective in gene silencing. In some embodiments the sequence
of a polynucleotide is screened against the genomic DNA of the intended plant to
minimize unintentional silencing of other genes.
        [086] While there is no upper limit on the concentrations and dosages of
polynucleotide molecules that can be useful in the methods and compositions provided
herein, lower effective concentrations and dosages will generally be sought for
efficiency. The concentrations can be adjusted in consideration of the volume of spray or
treatment applied to plant leaves or other plant part surfaces, such as flower petals, stems,
tubers, fruit, anthers, pollen, leaves, roots, or seeds.     In one embodiment, a useful
treatment for herbaceous plants using 25-mer polynucleotide molecules is about 1
nanomole (nmol) of polynucleotide molecules per plant, for example, from about 0.05 to
1 nmol polynucleotides per plant.      Other embodiments for herbaceous plants include
useful ranges of about 0.05 to about 100 nmol, or about 0.1 to about 20 nmol, or about 1
nmol to about 10 nmol of polynucleotides per plant. In certain embodiments, about 40 to
about 50 nmol of a ssDNA polynucleotide is applied. In certain embodiments, about 0.5
nmol to about 2 nmol of a dsRNA is applied. In certain embodiments, a composition
containing about 0.5 to about 2.0 mg/mL, or about 0.14 mg/mL of dsRNA or ssDNA (21
mer) is applied. In certain embodiments, a composition of about 0.5 to about 1.5 mg/mL
of a long dsRNA polynucleotide (i.e., about 50 to about 200 or more nucleotides) is
                                             24

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
applied. In certain embodiments, about Inmol to about 5nmol of a dsRNA is applied to a
plant. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide composition as topically applied to the
plant contains the at least one polynucleotide at a concentration of about 0.01 to about 10
milligrams per milliliter, or about 0.05 to about 2 milligrams per milliliter, or about 0.1 to
about 2 milligrams per milliliter.        Very large plants, trees, or vines may require
correspondingly larger amounts of polynucleotides. When using long dsRNA molecules
that can be processed into multiple oligonucleotides, lower concentrations can be used.
To    illustrate embodiments     of the    invention, the factor   IX, when        applied to
oligonucleotide molecules is arbitrarily used to denote a treatment of 0.8 nmol of
polynucleotide molecule per plant; 1OX, 8 nmol of polynucleotide molecule per plant;
and 10OX, 80 nmol of polynucleotide molecule per plant.
          [087] The polynucleotide      compositions   of this invention      are   useful in
compositions, such as liquids that comprise polynucleotide molecules, alone or in
combination with other components either in the same liquid or in separately applied
liquids that provide a transfer agent. As used herein, a transfer agent is an agent that,
when combined with a polynucleotide in a composition that is topically applied to a
target plant surface, enables the polynucleotide to enter a plant cell.             In certain
embodiments, a transfer agent is an agent that conditions the surface of plant tissue, e.g.,
seeds, leaves, stems, roots, flowers, or fruits, to permeation by the polynucleotide
molecules into plant cells.      The transfer of polynucleotides into plant cells can be
facilitated by the prior or contemporaneous application of a polynucleotide-transferring
agent to the plant tissue.      In some embodiments the transferring agent is applied
subsequent to the application of the polynucleotide composition.        The polynucleotide
transfer agent enables a pathway for polynucleotides through cuticle wax barriers,
stomata and/or cell wall or membrane barriers into plant cells. Suitable transfer agents to
facilitate transfer of the polynucleotide into a plant cell include agents that increase
permeability of the exterior of the plant or that increase permeability of plant cells to
oligonucleotides or polynucleotides. Such agents to facilitate transfer of the composition
into a plant cell include a chemical agent, or a physical agent, or combinations thereof.
Chemical agents for conditioning or transfer include (a) surfactants, (b) an organic
solvent or an aqueous solution or aqueous mixtures of organic solvents, (c) oxidizing
                                              25

WO 2014/047653                                                                PCT/US2013/061475
agents, (d) acids, (e) bases, (f) oils, (g) enzymes, or combinations thereof. Embodiments
of the method can optionally include an incubation step, a neutralization step (e.g., to
neutralize an acid, base, or oxidizing agent, or to inactivate an enzyme), a rinsing step, or
combinations thereof. Embodiments of agents or treatments for conditioning of a plant to
permeation by polynucleotides include emulsions, reverse emulsions, liposomes, and
other micellar-like compositions. Embodiments of agents or treatments for conditioning
of a plant to permeation by polynucleotides include counter-ions or other molecules that
are known to associate with nucleic acid molecules, e.g., inorganic ammonium ions, alkyl
ammonium ions, lithium ions, polyamines such as spermine, spermidine, or putrescine,
and other cations.      Organic solvents useful in conditioning a plant to permeation by
polynucleotides          include        DMSO,          DMF,       pyridine,      N-pyrrolidine,
hexamethylphosphoramide, acetonitrile, dioxane, polypropylene glycol, other solvents
miscible with water or that will dissolve phosphonucleotides in non-aqueous systems
(such as is used in synthetic reactions).         Naturally derived or synthetic oils with or
without surfactants or emulsifiers can be used, e.g., plant-sourced oils, crop oils (such as
those listed in the 9th Compendium of Herbicide Adjuvants, publicly available on the
worldwide web (internet) at herbicide.adjuvants.com can be used, e.g., paraffinic oils,
polyol fatty acid esters, or oils with short-chain molecules modified with amides or
polyamines such as polyethyleneimine or N-pyrrolidine. Transfer agents include, but are
not limited to, organosilicone preparations.
         [088]   In   certain    embodiments,       an  organosilicone    preparation   that   is
commercially available as Silwet@ L-77 surfactant having CAS Number 27306-78-1 and
EPA Number: CAL.REG.NO. 5905-50073-AA, and currently available from Momentive
Performance Materials, Albany, New York can be used to prepare a polynucleotide
composition. In certain embodiments where a Silwet L-77 organosilicone preparation is
used as a pre-spray treatment of plant leaves or other plant surfaces, freshly made
concentrations in the range of about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e.g.,
about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025, 0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07,
0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3,
1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) are efficacious in preparing a
leaf or other plant surface for transfer of polynucleotide molecules into plant cells from a
                                                 26

WO 2014/047653                                                                 PCT/US2013/061475
topical application on the surface.           In certain embodiments of the methods and
compositions provided herein, a composition that comprises a polynucleotide molecule
and an organosilicone preparation comprising Silwet L-77 in the range of about 0.015 to
about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e.g., about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025, 0.03, 0.035,
0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3,
0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3,
2.5 wt percent) is used or provided.            In certain embodiments of the methods and
compositions provided herein, a composition that comprises a polynucleotide molecule
and an organosilicone preparation comprising Silwet L-77 in the range of about 0.3 to
about 1 percent by weight (wt percent) or about 0.5 to about 1%. by weight (wt percent)
is used or provided.
         [089] In certain embodiments of the methods and compositions provided herein,
a composition that comprises a polynucleotide molecule and an organosilicone
preparation comprising Silwet L-77 in the range of about 0.3 to about 1 percent by weight
(wt percent) or about 0.5 to about 1%. by weight (wt percent) is used or provided. In
certain embodiments, any of the commercially available organosilicone preparations
provided in the following Table 1 can be used as transfer agents in a polynucleotide
composition. In certain embodiments where an organosilicone preparation of the Table is
used as a pre-spray treatment of plant leaves or other surfaces, freshly made
concentrations in the range of about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e.g.,
about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025, 0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07,
0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3,
1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) are efficacious in preparing a
leaf or other plant surface for transfer of polynucleotide molecules into plant cells from a
topical application on the surface.           In certain embodiments of the methods and
compositions provided herein, a composition that comprises a polynucleotide molecule
and an organosilicone preparation of Table 1 in the range of about 0.015 to about 2
percent by weight (wt percent) (e.g., about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025, 0.03, 0.035, 0.04,
0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07, 0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4,
0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5
(wt percent) is used or provided.
                                                 27

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
        [090] Table 1. Exemplary organosilicone preparations
Name                           CAS number             Manufacturer     1,2
BREAK-THRU@ S 321              na                     Evonik Industries AG
BREAK-THRU @ S 200             67674-67-3             Evonik Industries AG
BREAK-THRU @ OE 441            68937-55-3             Evonik Industries AG
BREAK-THRU @ S 278             27306-78-1             Evonik Goldschmidt
BREAK-THRU @ S 243             na                     Evonik Industries AG
Silwet@ L-77                   27306-78-1             Momentive Performance Materials
Silwet@ HS 429                 na                     Momentive Performance Materials
Silwet@ HS 312                 na                     Momentive Performance Materials
BREAK-THRU @ S 233             134180-76-0            Evonik Industries AG
Silwet@ HS 508                                        Momentive Performance Materials
Silwet@ HS 604                                        Momentive Performance Materials
        1 Evonik Industries AG, Essen, Germany
        2 Momentive Performance Materials, Albany, New York
        [091] Organosilicone preparations used in the methods and compositions
provided herein can comprise one or more effective organosilicone compounds. As used
herein, the phrase "effective organosilicone compound" is used to describe any
organosilicone compound that is found in an organosilicone preparation that enables a
polynucleotide to enter a plant cell. In certain embodiments, an effective organosilicone
compound can enable a polynucleotide to enter a plant cell in a manner permitting a
polynucleotide mediated suppression of target gene expression in the plant cell.            In
general, effective organosilicone compounds include, but are not limited to, compounds
that can comprise: i) a trisiloxane head group that is covalently linked to, ii) an alkyl
linker including, but not limited to, an n-propyl linker, that is covalently linked to, iii) a
poly glycol chain, that is covalently linked to, iv) a terminal group. Trisiloxane head
groups of such effective organosilicone compounds include, but are not limited to,
heptamethyltrisiloxane.   Alkyl linkers can include, but are not limited to, an n-propyl
linker.   Poly glycol chains include, but are not limited to, polyethylene glycol or
polypropylene glycol.     Poly glycol chains can comprise a mixture that provides an
                                             28

WO 2014/047653                                                                 PCT/US2013/061475
average chain length "n" of about "7.5". In certain embodiments, the average chain
length "n" can vary from about 5 to about 14. Terminal groups can include, but are not
limited to, alkyl groups such as a methyl group. Effective organosilicone compounds are
believed to include, but are not limited to, trisiloxane ethoxylate surfactants or
polyalkylene oxide modified heptamethyl trisiloxane.
               Si
                                           n
         [092] (Compound I: polyalkyleneoxide heptamethyltrisiloxane, average n=7.5).
         [093]    One organosilicone compound believed to be ineffective comprises the
formula:
          HO Si                 O          Os
                                           n
            Si
         [094]    In certain embodiments, an organosilicone preparation that comprises an
organosilicone compound comprising a trisiloxane head group is used in the methods and
compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments, an organosilicone preparation
that comprises an organosilicone compound comprising a heptamethyltrisiloxane head
group is used in the methods and compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments,
an organosilicone composition that comprises Compound I is used in the methods and
compositions provided herein. In certain embodiments, an organosilicone composition
that comprises Compound I is used in the methods and compositions provided herein. In
certain embodiments of the methods and compositions provided herein, a composition
that comprises a polynucleotide molecule and one or more effective organosilicone
compound in the range of about 0.015 to about 2 percent by weight (wt percent) (e.g.,
about 0.01, 0.015, 0.02, 0.025, 0.03, 0.035, 0.04, 0.045, 0.05, 0.055, 0.06, 0.065, 0.07,
0.075, 0.08, 0.085, 0.09, 0.095, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3,
1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.5 wt percent) is used or provided.
                                                  29

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
        [095]  In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions that comprise an
organosilicone   preparation    can   comprise   a salt   such   as   ammonium       chloride,
tetrabutylphosphonium bromide, and/or ammonium sulfate.              Ammonium chloride,
tetrabutylphosphonium bromide, and/or ammonium sulfate can be provided in the
polynucleotide composition at a concentration of about 0.5% to about 5% (w/v).             An
ammonium      chloride,   tetrabutylphosphonium     bromide,   and/or   ammonium       sulfate
concentration of about 1% to about 3%, or about 2% (w/v) can also be used in the
polynucleotide compositions that comprise an organosilicone preparation.           In certain
embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions can comprise an ammonium salt at a
concentration   greater or equal to 300 millimolar. In certain embodiments, the
polynucleotide compositions that comprise an organosilicone preparation can comprise
ammonium sulfate at concentrations from about 80 to about 1200 mM or about 150 mM
to about 600 mM.
        [096]  In certain embodiments,       the polynucleotide compositions can also
comprise a phosphate salt. Phosphate salts used in the compositions include, but are not
limited to, calcium, magnesium, potassium, or sodium phosphate salts.              In certain
embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions can comprise a phosphate salt at a
concentration of at least about 5 millimolar, at least about 10 millimolar, or at least about
20 millimolar. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions will comprise a
phosphate salt in a range of about ImM to about 25mM or in a range of about 5mM to
about 25mM. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions can comprise
sodium phosphate at a concentration of at least about 5 millimolar, at least about 10
millimolar, or at least about 20 millimolar. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide
compositions can comprise sodium phosphate at a concentration of about 5 millimolar,
about 10 millimolar, or about 20 millimolar. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide
compositions will comprise a sodium phosphate salt in a range of about ImM to about
25mM or in a range of about 5mM to about 25mM.                In certain embodiments, the
polynucleotide compositions will comprise a sodium phosphate salt in a range of about
10mM to about 160mM or in a range of about 20mM to about 40mM.                     In certain
embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions can comprise a sodium phosphate buffer
at a pH of about 6.8.
                                             30

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
         [097] In certain embodiments, other useful transfer agents or adjuvants to
transfer agents that can be used in polynucleotide compositions provided herein include
surfactants and/or effective molecules contained therein.      Surfactants and/or effective
molecules contained therein include, but are not limited to, sodium or lithium salts of
fatty acids (such as tallow or tallowamines or phospholipids) and organosilicone
surfactants.   In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions that comprise a
transfer agent are formulated with counter-ions or other molecules that are known to
associate with nucleic acid molecules.           Illustrative examples include tetraalkyl
ammonium ions, trialkyl ammonium ions, sulfonium ions, lithium ions, and polyamines
such as spermine, spermidine, or putrescine. In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide
compositions are formulated with a non-polynucleotide herbicide. Non-polynucleotide
herbicidal molecules include, but are not limited to, glyphosate, auxin-like benzoic acid
herbicides including dicamba, chloramben, and TBA, glufosinate, auxin-like herbicides
including phenoxy carboxylic acid herbicide, pyridine carboxylic acid herbicide,
quinoline carboxylic acid herbicide, pyrimidine carboxylic acid herbicide, and benazolin
ethyl herbicide, sulfonylureas, imidazolinones, bromoxynil, delapon, cyclohezanedione,
protoporphyrinogen       oxidase  inhibitors, and 4-hydroxyphenyl-pyruvate-dioxygenase
inhibiting herbicides.
         [098]   In certain embodiments, the polynucleotides used in the compositions that
are essentially identical or essentially complementary to the target gene or transcript will
comprise the predominant nucleic acid in the composition. Thus in certain embodiments,
the polynucleotides that are essentially identical or essentially complementary to the
target gene or transcript will comprise at least about 50%, 75%, 95%, 98%, or 100% of
the nucleic acids provided in the composition by either mass or molar concentration.
However, in certain embodiments, the polynucleotides that are essentially identical or
essentially complementary to the target gene or transcript can comprise at least about 1%
to about 50%, about 10% to about 50%, about 20% to about 50%, or about 30% to about
50% of the nucleic acids provided in the composition by either mass or molar
concentration.     Also provided are compositions where the polynucleotides that are
essentially identical or essentially complementary to the target gene or transcript can
comprise at least about 1% to 100%, about 10% to 100%, about          2
                                                                        0% to about 100%,
                                              31

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
about 30% to about 50%, or about 50% to 100% of the nucleic acids provided in the
composition by either mass or molar concentration.
        [099] Polynucleotides      comprising    ssDNA,    dsDNA,     ssRNA,   dsRNA,     or
RNA/DNA hybrids that are essentially identical or complementary to certain plant target
genes or transcripts and that can be used in compositions containing transfer agents that
include, but are not limited to, organosilicone preparations, to suppress those target genes
when topically applied to plants are disclosed in co-assigned U.S. Patent Application No.
13/042856. Various polynucleotide herbicidal molecules, compositions comprising those
polynucleotide herbicidal molecules and transfer agents that include, but are not limited
to, organosilicone preparations, and methods whereby herbicidal effects are obtained by
the topical application of such compositions to plants are also disclosed in co-assigned
U.S. Patent Application No. 13/042856, and those polynucleotide herbicidal molecules,
compositions, and methods are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Genes
encoding proteins that can provide tolerance to an herbicide and/or that are targets of a
herbicide are collectively referred to herein as "herbicide target genes". Herbicide target
genes include, but are not limited to, a 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase
(EPSPS), a glyphosate oxidoreductase (GOX), a glyphosate decarboxylase, a glyphosate
N-acetyl    transferase   (GAT),     a  dicamba     monooxygenase,      a  phosphinothricin
acetyltransferase, a 2,2- dichloropropionic acid dehalogenase, an acetohydroxyacid
synthase, an acetolactate synthase, a haloarylnitrilase, an acetyl-coenzyme A carboxylase
(ACCase), a dihydropteroate synthase, a phytoene desaturase (PDS), a protoporphyrin IX
oxygenase (PPO), a hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPPD), a para-aminobenzoate
synthase, a glutamine synthase, a cellulose synthase, a beta tubulin, and a serine
hydroxymethyltransferase gene. The effects of applying certain compositions comprising
polynucleotides that are essentially identical or complementary to certain herbicide target
genes and transfer agents on plants containing the herbicide target genes was shown to be
potentiated or enhanced by subsequent application of an herbicide that targets the same
gene as the polynucleotide in co-assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/042856. For
example, compositions comprising polynucleotides targeting the EPSPS herbicide target
gene were potentiated by glyphosate in experiments disclosed in co-assigned U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/042856.
                                              32

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
         [0100] In certain embodiments of the compositions and methods disclosed herein,
the composition comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer agent can thus further
comprise a second polynucleotide comprising at least 19 contiguous nucleotides that are
essentially identical or essentially complementary to a transcript to a protein that confers
resistance to a herbicide.   In certain embodiments, the second polynucleotide does not
comprise a polynucleotide that is essentially identical or essentially complementary to a
transcript encoding a protein of a target plant that confers resistance to said herbicidal
molecule.      Thus,   in an exemplary     and non-limiting embodiment,         the second
polynucleotide could be essentially identical or essentially complementary to a transcript
encoding a protein that confers resistance to a herbicide in a weed (such as an EPSPS
encoding transcript) but would not be essentially identical or essentially complementary
to a transcript encoding a protein that confers resistance to that same herbicide in a crop
plant.
         [0101] In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions that comprise a
transfer agent can comprise glycerin. Glycerin can be provided in the composition at a
concentration of about 0.1% to about 1% (w/v or v/v). A glycerin concentration of about
0. 4 % to about 0. 6 %, or about 0.5% (w/v or v/v) can also be used in the polynucleotide
compositions that comprise a transfer agent.
         [0102] In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions that comprise a
transfer agent can further comprise organic solvents. Such organic solvents include, but
are not limited to,   DMSO, DMF, pyridine, N-pyrrolidine, hexamethylphosphoramide,
acetonitrile, dioxane, polypropylene glycol, other solvents miscible with water or that
will dissolve phosphonucleotides in non-aqueous systems (such as is used in synthetic
reactions).
         [0103] In certain embodiments, the polynucleotide compositions that comprise a
transfer agent can further comprise naturally derived or synthetic oils with or without
surfactants or emulsifiers. Such oils include, but are not limited to, plant-sourced oils,
crop oils (such as those listed in the 9th Compendium of Herbicide Adjuvants, publicly
available on line at www.herbicide.adjuvants.com), paraffinic oils, polyol fatty acid
esters, or oils with short-chain molecules modified with amides or polyamines such as
polyethyleneimine or N-pyrrolidine.
                                             33

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
        [0104] In aspects of the invention, methods include one or more applications of
the composition comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer agent or one or more
effective components contained therein. In certain embodiments of the methods, one or
more applications of a transfer agent or one or more effective components contained
therein can precede one or more applications of the composition comprising a
polynucleotide and a transfer agent. In embodiments where a transfer agent and/or one or
more effective molecules contained therein is used either by itself as a pre-treatment or as
part of a composition that includes a polynucleotide, embodiments of the polynucleotide
molecules     are   double-stranded    RNA      oligonucleotides,    single-stranded   RNA
oligonucleotides,   double-stranded    RNA     polynucleotides,      single-stranded   RNA
polynucleotides,      double-stranded   DNA      oligonucleotides,   single-stranded   DNA
oligonucleotides,    double-stranded    DNA      polynucleotides,   single-stranded    DNA
polynucleotides, chemically modified RNA or DNA oligonucleotides or polynucleotides
or mixtures thereof.
        [0105] Compositions and methods of the invention are useful for modulating or
suppressing the expression of an endogenous target gene or transgenic target gene in a
plant cell or plant. In certain embodiments of the methods and compositions provided
herein, expression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) target genes can be suppressed
completely, partially and/or transiently to result in improved shelf life and reduced
postharvest losses.   In various embodiments, a target gene includes coding (protein
coding or translatable) sequence, non-coding (non-translatable) sequence, or both coding
and non-coding sequence. Compositions of the invention can include polynucleotides
and oligonucleotides designed to target multiple genes, or multiple segments of one or
more genes. The target gene can include multiple consecutive segments of a target gene,
multiple non-consecutive segments of a target gene, multiple alleles of a target gene, or
multiple target genes from one or more species. Examples of target genes of the present
invention include endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes and Polyphenol oxidase
(PPO) transgenes.
        [0106] Target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes and plants containing those target
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) genes can be obtained from: i) row crop plants including, but
are not limited to, corn, soybean, cotton, canola, sugar beet, alfalfa, sugarcane, rice, and
                                             34

WO 2014/047653                                                               PCT/US2013/061475
wheat; ii) vegetable plants including, but not limited to, tomato, potato, sweet pepper, hot
pepper, melon, watermelon, cucumber, eggplant, cauliflower, broccoli, lettuce, spinach,
onion, peas, carrots, sweet corn, Chinese cabbage, leek, fennel, pumpkin, squash or
gourd, radish, Brussels sprouts, tomatillo, garden beans, dry beans, or okra; iii) culinary
plants including, but not limited to, basil, parsley, coffee, or tea; iv) fruit plants including
but not limited to apple, pear, cherry, peach, plum, apricot, banana, plantain, table grape,
wine grape, citrus, avocado, mango, or berry; v) a tree grown for ornamental or
commercial use, including, but not limited to, a fruit or nut tree; or, vi) an ornamental
plant (e.g., an ornamental flowering plant or shrub or turf grass).          The methods and
compositions provided herein can also be applied to plants produced by a cutting,
cloning, or grafting process (i.e., a plant not grown from a seed) including fruit trees and
plants that include, but are not limited to, citrus, apples, avocados, tomatoes, eggplant,
cucumber, melons, watermelons, and grapes as well as various ornamental plants. Such
row crop, vegetable, culinary, fruit, tree, or ornamental plants exhibiting improvements
that result from suppressing expression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene are provided
herein.   Such row crop, vegetable, culinary, fruit, tree, or ornamental plant parts or
processed plant products exhibiting improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses
that result from suppressing expression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene are also
provided herein. Such plant parts can include, but are not limited to, flowers, stems,
tubers, fruit, anthers, meristems, ovules, pollen, leaves, or seeds. Such processed plant
products obtained from the plant parts can include, but are not limited to, a meal, a pulp,
a feed, or a food product.
        [0107] An aspect of the invention provides a method for modulating expression
of a Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene in a plant including (a) conditioning of a plant to
permeation by polynucleotides and (b) treatment of the plant with the polynucleotide
molecules, wherein the polynucleotide molecules include at least one segment of 18 or
more contiguous nucleotides cloned from or otherwise identified from the target
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene in either anti-sense or sense orientation, whereby the
polynucleotide molecules permeate the interior of the plant and induce modulation of the
target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene. The conditioning and polynucleotide application
can be performed separately or in a single step.               When the conditioning and
                                               35

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
polynucleotide application are performed in separate steps, the conditioning can precede
or can follow the polynucleotide application within minutes, hours, or days. In some
embodiments more than one conditioning step or more than one polynucleotide molecule
application can be performed on the same plant. In embodiments of the method, the
segment can be cloned or identified from (a) coding (protein-encoding), (b) non-coding
(promoter and other gene related molecules), or (c) both coding and non-coding parts of
the target Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene. Non-coding parts include DNA, such as
promoter regions or the RNA transcribed by the DNA that provide RNA regulatory
molecules, including but not limited to: introns, 5' or 3' untranslated regions, and
microRNAs (miRNA), trans-acting siRNAs, natural anti-sense siRNAs, and other small
RNAs with regulatory function or RNAs having structural or enzymatic function
including but not limited to:       ribozymes, ribosomal RNAs, t-RNAs, aptamers, and
riboswitches. In certain embodiments where the polynucleotide used in the composition
comprises a promoter sequence essentially identical to, or essentially complementary to
at least 18 contiguous nucleotides of the promoter of the endogenous target Polyphenol
oxidase (PPO) gene, the promoter sequence of the polynucleotide is not operably linked
to another sequence that is transcribed from the promoter sequence.
         [0108] Compositions comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer agent provided
herein can be topically applied to a plant or plant part by any convenient method, e.g.,
spraying or coating with a powder, or with a liquid composition comprising any of an
emulsion, suspension, or solution.      Such topically applied sprays or coatings can be of
either all or of any a portion of the surface of the plant or plant part. Similarly, the
compositions comprising a transfer agent or other pre-treatment can in certain
embodiments be applied to the plant or plant part by any convenient method, e.g.,
spraying or wiping a solution, emulsion, or suspension.        Compositions comprising a
polynucleotide and a transfer agent provided herein can be topically applied to plant parts
that include, but are not limited to, flowers, stems, tubers, meristems, ovules, fruit,
anthers, pollen, leaves, roots, or seeds.
         [0109] Application of compositions comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer
agent to seeds is specifically provided herein.        Seeds can be contacted with such
compositions by spraying, misting, immersion, and the like.
                                              36

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
        [0110] In certain embodiments,       application of compositions comprising a
polynucleotide and a transfer agent to plants, plant parts, or seeds in particular can
provide for the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses in progeny plants,
plant parts, or seeds derived from those treated plants, plant parts, or seeds. In certain
embodiments, progeny plants, plant parts, or seeds derived from those treated plants,
plant parts, or seeds will exhibit improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses that
result from suppressing expression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene.               In certain
embodiments, the methods and compositions provided herein can provide for improved
shelf life and reduced postharvest losses in progeny plants or seeds as a result of
epigenetically inherited suppression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene expression. In
certain embodiments, such progeny plants exhibit improved shelf life and reduced
postharvest losses from epigenetically inherited suppression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO)
gene expression that is not caused by a transgene where the polynucleotide is operably
linked to a promoter, a viral vector, or a copy of the polynucleotide that is integrated into
a non-native location in the chromosomal DNA of the plant.          Without seeking to be
limited by theory, progeny plants or seeds derived from those treated plants, plant parts,
or seeds can exhibit an improvement in improved shelf life and reduced postharvest
losses through an epigenetic mechanism that provides for propagation of an epigenetic
condition where suppression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene expression occurs in the
progeny plants, plant parts, or plant seeds. In certain embodiments, progeny plants or
seeds exhibiting improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses as a result of
epigenetically inherited suppression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene expression can
also exhibit increased methylation, and in particular, increased methylation of cytosine
residues, in the endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene of the plant. Plant parts,
including seeds, of the progeny plants that exhibit improved shelf life and reduced
postharvest losses as a result of epigenetically inherited suppression of Polyphenol
oxidase (PPO) gene expression, can also in certain embodiments exhibit increased
methylation, and in particular, increased methylation of cytosine residues, in the
endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene. In certain embodiments, DNA methylation
levels in DNA encoding the endogenous Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene can be
compared in plants that exhibit the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses and
                                             37

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
control plants that do not exhibit the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses to
correlate the presence of the improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses to
epigenetically inherited suppression of Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene expression and to
identify plants that comprise the epigenetically inherited improved shelf life and reduced
postharvest losses.
         [0111] Various methods of spraying compositions on plants or plant parts can be
used to topically apply to a plant surface a composition comprising a polynucleotide that
comprises a transfer agent. In the field, a composition can be applied with a boom that
extends over the crops and delivers the composition to the surface of the plants or with a
boomless sprayer that distributes a composition across a wide area. Agricultural sprayers
adapted for directional, broadcast, or banded spraying can also be used in certain
embodiments. Sprayers adapted for spraying particular parts of plants including, but not
limited to, leaves, the undersides of leaves, flowers, stems, male reproductive organs such
as tassels, meristems, pollen, ovules, and the like can also be used. Compositions can
also be delivered aerially, such as by a crop dusting airplane. In certain embodiments, the
spray can be delivered with a pressurized backpack sprayer calibrated to deliver the
appropriate rate of the composition. In certain embodiments, such a backpack sprayer is
a carbon dioxide pressurized sprayer with a 11015 flat fan or equivalent spray nozzle
with a customized single nozzle assembly (to minimize waste) at a spray pressure of
about 0.25 MPa and/or any single nozzle sprayer providing an effective spray swath of 60
cm above the canopy of 3 to 12 inch tall growing plants can be used. Plants in a
greenhouse or growth chamber can be treated using a track sprayer or laboratory sprayer
with a 11001 XR or equivalent spray nozzle to deliver the sample solution at a determined
rate. An exemplary and non-limiting rate is about 140 L/ha at about 0.25 MPa pressure.
         [0112] In certain embodiments, it is also contemplated that a plant part can be
sprayed with the composition comprising a polynucleotide that comprises a transfer
agent. Such plant parts can be sprayed either pre-or post-harvest to provide improved
shelf life and reduced postharvest losses in the plant part that results from suppression of
Polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene expression. Compositions can be topically applied to
plant parts attached to a plant by a spray as previously described. Compositions can be
topically applied to plant parts that are detached from a plant by a spray as previously
                                              38

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
described or by an alternative method. Alternative methods for applying compositions to
detached parts include, but are not limited to, passing the plant parts through a spray by a
conveyor belt or trough, or immersing the plant parts in the composition.
         [0113] Compositions comprising polynucleotides and transfer agents can be
applied to plants or plant parts at one or more developmental stages as desired and/or as
needed.     Application of compositions to pre-germination seeds and/or to post
germination seedlings is provided in certain embodiments.        Seeds can be treated with
polynucleotide compositions provided herein by methods including, but not limited to,
spraying, immersion, or any process that provides for coating, imbibition, and/or uptake
of the polynucleotide composition by the seed. Seeds can be treated with polynucleotide
compositions using seed batch treatment systems or continuous flow treatment systems.
Seed coating systems are at least described in U.S. Patent Numbers 6,582,516, 5,891,246,
4,079,696, and 4,023,525.        Seed treatment can also be effected in laboratory or
commercial scale treatment equipment such as a tumbler, a mixer, or a pan granulator. A
polynucleotide composition used to treat seeds can contain one or more other desirable
components including, but not limited to liquid diluents, binders to serve as a matrix for
the polynucleotide,    fillers for protecting the seeds during stress conditions, and
plasticizers to improve flexibility, adhesion and/or spreadability of the coating.        In
addition, for oily polynucleotide compositions containing little or no filler, drying agents
such as calcium carbonate, kaolin or bentonite clay, perlite, diatomaceous earth or any
other adsorbent material can be added. Use of such components in seed treatments is
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,876,739. Additional ingredients can be incorporated into
the polynucleotide compositions used in seed treatments.       Such ingredients include but
are not limited to: conventional sticking agents, dispersing agents such as methylcellulose
(Methocel     A15LV      or   Methocel    A15C,    for    example,   serve    as   combined
dispersant/sticking agents for use in seed treatments), polyvinyl alcohol (e.g., Elvanol 51
05), lecithin (e.g., Yelkinol P), polymeric dispersants (e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone/vinyl
acetate PVPNA S-630), thickeners (e.g., clay thickeners such as Van Gel B to improve
viscosity and reduce settling of particle suspensions), emulsion stabilizers, surfactants,
antifreeze compounds (e.g., urea), dyes, colorants, and the like that can be combined with
compositions comprising a polynucleotide and a transfer agent. Further ingredients used
                                              39

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
in compositions that can be applied to seeds can be found in McCutcheon's, vol. 1,
"Emulsifiers and Detergents," MC Publishing Company, Glen Rock, N.J., U.S.A., 1996
and in McCutcheon's, vol. 2, "Functional Materials," MC Publishing Company, Glen
Rock, N.J., U.S.A., 1996.      Methods of applying compositions to seeds and pesticidal
compositions that can be used to treat seeds are described in U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 20080092256, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
        [0114] Application of the compositions in early, mid-, and late vegetative stages
of plant development is provided in certain embodiments.                 Application of the
compositions in early, mid, and late reproductive stages is also provided in certain
embodiments.      Application of the compositions to plant parts at different stages of
maturation is also provided.
        [0115] In certain embodiments, methods and polynucleotide compositions are
provided that can be applied to living plant cells/tissues to suppress expression of a
Polyphenol oxidase 11 (PPOll) gene and that provide improved shelf life, reduced
browning, reduced postharvest losses or combinations thereof to a crop plant in need of
the benefit. Also provided herein are plants and plant parts exhibiting improved shelf life
and reduced postharvest losses as well as processed products of such plants or plant parts.
In certain embodiments, the compositions may be topically applied to the surface of a
plant, such as to the surface of a leaf, tuber, or fruit, and the compositions may include a
transfer agent.    Aspects of the method can be applied to various crops, for example,
including but not limited to lettuce, apples and potatoes. The methods and compositions
provided herein can also be applied to plants produced by a cutting, cloning, or grafting
process (i.e., a plant not grown from a seed) that include fruit trees and plants. Fruit trees
produced by such processes include, but are not limited to, citrus and apple trees. Plants
produced by such processes include, but are not limited to, avocados, tomatoes, eggplant,
cucumber, melons, watermelons, and grapes as well as various ornamental plants.
        [0116] Without being bound by theory, in certain embodiments, the compositions
and methods of the present invention are believed to operate through one or more of the
several natural cellular pathways involved in RNA-mediated gene suppression as
generally described in Brodersen and Voinnet (2006), Trends Genetics, 22:268-280;
Tomari and Zamore (2005) Genes & Dev., 19:517-529; Vaucheret (2006) Genes Dev.,
                                              40

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
20:759-771; Meins et al. (2005) Annu. Rev. Cell Dev. Biol., 21:297-318; and Jones
Rhoades et al. (2006) Annu. Rev. Plant Biol., 57:19-53. RNA-mediated gene suppression
generally involves a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) intermediate that is formed intra
molecularly within a single RNA molecule or inter-molecularly between two RNA
molecules.     This longer dsRNA intermediate is processed by a ribonuclease of the
RNAase III family (Dicer or Dicer-like ribonuclease) to one or more shorter double
stranded RNAs, one strand of which is incorporated into the RNA-induced silencing
complex ("RISC"). For example, the siRNA pathway involves the cleavage of a longer
double-stranded RNA intermediate to small interfering RNAs ("siRNAs").           The size of
siRNAs is believed to range from about 19 to about 25 base pairs, but the most common
classes of siRNAs in plants include those containing 21 to 24 base pairs (See, Hamilton et
al. (2002) EMBO J., 21:4671-4679).
         Plant Transformation Constructs
         [0117] Vectors used for plant transformation may include, for example, plasmids,
cosmids, YACs (yeast artificial chromosomes), BACs (bacterial artificial chromosomes)
or any other suitable cloning system, as well as fragments of DNA therefrom. Thus when
the term "vector" or "expression vector" is used, all of the foregoing types of vectors, as
well as nucleic acid sequences isolated therefrom, are included. It is contemplated that
utilization of cloning systems with large insert capacities will allow introduction of large
DNA sequences comprising more than one selected gene.               In accordance with the
invention, this could be used to introduce genes corresponding to an entire biosynthetic
pathway into a plant.      Introduction of such sequences may be facilitated by use of
bacterial or yeast artificial chromosomes (BACs or YACs, respectively), or even plant
artificial chromosomes.      For example, the use of BACs for Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation was disclosed by Hamilton et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA,
93(18):9975-9979, 1996.
         [0118] Particularly useful for transformation are expression cassettes which have
been isolated from such vectors. DNA segments used for transforming plant cells will, of
course, generally comprise the cDNA, gene or genes which one desires to introduce into
and have expressed in the host cells. These DNA segments can further include structures
such as promoters, enhancers, polylinkers, or even regulatory genes as desired.         The
                                              41

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
DNA segment or gene chosen for cellular introduction will often encode a protein which
will be expressed in the resultant recombinant cells resulting in a screenable or selectable
trait and/or which will impart an improved phenotype to the resulting transgenic plant.
However, this may not always be the case, and the present invention also encompasses
transgenic plants incorporating non-expressed transgenes. Preferred components likely to
be included with vectors used in the current invention are as follows.
        A.       Regulatory Elements
         [0119] Exemplary promoters for expression of a nucleic acid sequence include
plant promoter such as the CaMV 35S promoter (Odell et al., 1985), or others such as
CaMV 19S (Lawton et al., 1987), nos (Ebert et al., 1987), Adh (Walker et al., 1987),
sucrose synthase (Yang and Russell, 1990), a tubulin, actin (Wang et al., 1992), cab
(Sullivan et al., 1989), PEPCase (Hudspeth and Grula, 1989) or those associated with the
R gene complex (Chandler et al., 1989).       Tissue specific promoters such as root cell
promoters (Conkling et al., 1990) and tissue specific enhancers (Fromm et al., 1986) are
also contemplated to be useful, as are inducible promoters such as ABA- and turgor
inducible promoters. The PAL2 promoter may in particular be useful with the invention
(U.S. Pat. Appl. Pub. 2004/0049802, the entire disclosure of which is specifically
incorporated herein by reference).
         [0120] The DNA sequence between the transcription initiation site and the start of
the coding sequence, i.e., the untranslated leader sequence, can also influence gene
expression.     One may thus wish to employ a particular leader sequence with a
transformation construct of the invention. Preferred leader sequences are contemplated to
include those which comprise sequences predicted to direct optimum expression of the
attached gene, i.e., to include a preferred consensus leader sequence which may increase
or maintain mRNA stability and prevent inappropriate initiation of translation.         The
choice of such sequences will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present
disclosure. Sequences that are derived from genes that are highly expressed in plants will
typically be preferred.
         [0121] It is contemplated that vectors for use in accordance with the present
invention may be constructed to include an ocs enhancer element. This element was first
identified as a 16 bp palindromic enhancer from the octopine synthase (ocs) gene of
                                             42

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
Agrobacterium (Ellis et al., 1987), and is present in at least 10 other promoters (Bouchez
et al., 1989). The use of an enhancer element, such as the ocs element and particularly
multiple copies of the element, may act to increase the level of transcription from
adjacent promoters when applied in the context of plant transformation.
         [0122] It is envisioned that polynucleotide sequences or selected DNA sequences
may be introduced under the control of novel promoters or enhancers, etc., or
homologous or tissue specific promoters or control elements. Vectors for use in tissue
specific targeting of genes in transgenic plants will typically include tissue-specific
promoters and may also include other tissue-specific control elements such as enhancer
sequences.     Promoters which direct specific or enhanced expression in certain plant
tissues will be known to those of skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. These
include, for example, the rbcS promoter, specific for green tissue; the ocs, nos and mas
promoters which have higher activity in roots or wounded leaf tissue.              In certain
embodiments, promoters can be employed that cause low expression of the selected
DNA. Low expression promoters can be obtained by mutation and/ or recombination of
DNA elements of promoters that cause high expression or by selecting upstream
regulatory elements of genes that cause expression of mRNA or protein with low
abundance.
         B.     Terminators
         [0123] Transformation constructs prepared in accordance with the invention will
typically include a 3' end DNA sequence that acts as a signal to terminate transcription
and allow for the poly-adenylation of the mRNA produced by coding sequences operably
linked to a promoter.      Examples of terminators that are deemed to be useful in this
context include those from the nopaline synthase gene of Agrobacterium tumefaciens
(nos 3' end) (Bevan et al., 1983), the terminator for the T7 transcript from the octopine
synthase gene of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and the 3' end of the protease inhibitor I or
II genes from potato or tomato. Regulatory elements such as an Adh intron (Callis et al.,
1987), sucrose synthase intron (Vasil et al., 1989) or TMV omega element (Gallie et al.,
1989), may further be included where desired.
         C.     Transit or Signal Peptides
         [0124] Sequences that are joined to the coding sequence of an expressed gene,
                                             43

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
which are removed post-translationally from the initial translation product and which
facilitate the transport of the protein into or through intracellular or extracellular
membranes, are termed transit (usually into vacuoles, vesicles, plastids and other
intracellular organelles) and signal sequences (usually to the endoplasmic reticulum,
golgi apparatus and outside of the cellular membrane). By facilitating the transport of the
protein into compartments inside and outside the cell, these sequences may increase the
accumulation of gene product protecting them from proteolytic degradation.             These
sequences also allow for additional mRNA sequences from highly expressed genes to be
attached to the coding sequence of the genes.            Since mRNA being translated by
ribosomes is more stable than naked mRNA, the presence of translatable mRNA in front
of the gene may increase the overall stability of the mRNA transcript from the gene and
thereby increase synthesis of the gene product.       Since transit and signal sequences are
usually post-translationally removed from the initial translation product, the use of these
sequences allows for the addition of extra translated sequences that may not appear on the
final polypeptide.    It further is contemplated that targeting of certain proteins may be
desirable in order to enhance the stability of the protein (U.S. Patent No. 5,545,818,
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
         [0125] Additionally, vectors may be constructed and employed in the intracellular
targeting of a specific gene product within the cells of a transgenic plant or in directing a
protein to the extracellular environment.     This generally will be achieved by joining a
DNA sequence encoding a transit or signal peptide sequence to the coding sequence of a
particular gene. The resultant transit, or signal, peptide will transport the protein to a
particular intracellular, or extracellular destination, respectively, and will then be post
translationally removed.
         D.      Marker Genes
         [0126] By employing a selectable or screenable marker protein, one can provide
or enhance the ability to identify transformants. "Marker genes" are genes that impart a
distinct phenotype to cells expressing the marker protein and thus allow such transformed
cells to be distinguished from cells that do not have the marker. Such genes may encode
either a selectable or screenable marker, depending on whether the marker confers a trait
which one can "select" for by chemical means, i.e., through the use of a selective agent
                                              44

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
(e.g., a herbicide, antibiotic, or the like), or whether it is simply a trait that one can
identify through observation or testing, i.e., by "screening" (e.g., the green fluorescent
protein). Of course, many examples of suitable marker proteins are known to the art and
can be employed in the practice of the invention.
         [0127] Included within the terms selectable or screenable markers also are genes
which encode a "secretable marker" whose secretion can be detected as a means of
identifying or selecting for transformed cells.     Examples include markers which are
secretable antigens that can be identified by antibody interaction, or even secretable
enzymes which can be detected by their catalytic activity. Secretable proteins fall into a
number of classes, including small, diffusible proteins detectable, e.g., by ELISA; small
active enzymes detectable in extracellular solution (e.g., alpha-amylase, beta-lactamase,
phosphinothricin acetyltransferase); and proteins that are inserted or trapped in the cell
wall (e.g., proteins that include a leader sequence such as that found in the expression
unit of extensin or tobacco PR S).
         [0128] Many selectable marker coding regions are known and could be used with
the present invention including, but not limited to, neo (Potrykus et al., 1985), which
provides kanamycin resistance and can be selected for using kanamycin, G418,
paromomycin, etc.; bar, which confers bialaphos or phosphinothricin resistance; a mutant
EPSP synthase protein (Hinchee et al., 1988) conferring glyphosate resistance; a nitrilase
such as bxn from Klebsiella ozaenae which confers resistance to bromoxynil (Stalker et
al.,  1988);   a mutant acetolactate     synthase   (ALS) which     confers  resistance to
imidazolinone, sulfonylurea or other ALS inhibiting chemicals (European Patent
Application 154, 204, 1985); a methotrexate resistant DHFR (Thillet et al., 1988), a
dalapon dehalogenase that confers resistance to the herbicide dalapon; or a mutated
anthranilate synthase that confers resistance to 5-methyl tryptophan.
         [0129] An illustrative embodiment of selectable marker capable of being used in
systems to select transformants are those that encode the enzyme phosphinothricin
acetyltransferase, such as the bar gene from Streptomyces hygroscopicus or the pat gene
from Streptomyces viridochromogenes. The enzyme phosphinothricin acetyl transferase
(PAT) inactivates the active ingredient in the herbicide bialaphos, phosphinothricin
(PPT). PPT inhibits glutamine synthetase, (Murakami et al., 1986; Twell et al., 1989)
                                              45

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
causing rapid accumulation of ammonia and cell death.
         [0130] Screenable markers that may be employed include a beta-glucuronidase
(GUS) or uidA gene which encodes an enzyme for which various chromogenic substrates
are known; an R-locus gene, which encodes a product that regulates the production of
anthocyanin pigments (red color) in plant tissues (Dellaporta et al., 1988); a beta
lactamase gene (Sutcliffe,      1978), which encodes an enzyme for which various
chromogenic substrates are known (e.g., PADAC, a chromogenic cephalosporin); a xylE
gene (Zukowsky et al., 1983) which encodes a catechol dioxygenase that can convert
chromogenic catechols; an alpha-amylase gene (Ikuta et al., 1990); a tyrosinase gene
(Katz et al., 1983) which encodes an enzyme capable of oxidizing tyrosine to DOPA and
dopaquinone which in turn condenses to form the easily-detectable compound melanin; a
beta- galactosidase gene, which encodes an enzyme for which there are chromogenic
substrates; a luciferase (lux) gene (Ow et al., 1986), which allows for bioluminescence
detection; an aequorin gene (Prasher et al., 1985) which may be employed in calcium
sensitive bioluminescence detection; or a gene encoding for green fluorescent protein
(Sheen et al., 1995; Haseloff et al., 1997; Reichel et al., 1996; Tian et al., 1997; WO
97/41228). The gene that encodes green fluorescent protein (GFP) is also contemplated
as a particularly useful reporter gene (Sheen et al., 1995; Haseloff et al., 1997; Reichel et
al., 1996; Tian et al., 1997; WO 97/41228). Expression of green fluorescent protein may
be visualized in a cell or plant as fluorescence following illumination by particular
wavelengths of light.
         Antisense and RNAi Constructs
         [0131] Antisense and RNAi treatments represent one way of altering PPOll
activity in accordance with the invention. In particular, constructs comprising a PPO 11
biosynthesis coding sequence, including fragments thereof, in antisense orientation, or
combinations of sense and antisense orientation, may be used to decrease or effectively
eliminate the expression of a PPO1 1 gene in a plant and obtain an improvement in shelf
life as is described herein. Accordingly, this may be used to "knock-out" the PPOl 1 or
homologous sequences thereof.
         [0132] Techniques for RNAi are well known in the art and are described in, for
example, Lehner et al., (2004) and Downward (2004). The technique is based on the fact
                                            46

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
that double stranded RNA is capable of directing the degradation of messenger RNA with
sequence complementary to one or the other strand (Fire et al., 1998).        Therefore, by
expression of a particular coding sequence in sense and antisense orientation, either as a
fragment or longer portion of the corresponding coding sequence, the expression of that
coding sequence can be down-regulated.
         [0133] Antisense, and in some aspects RNAi, methodology takes advantage of the
fact that nucleic acids tend to pair with "complementary" sequences. By complementary,
it is meant that polynucleotides are those which are capable of base-pairing according to
the standard Watson-Crick complementarity rules. That is, the larger purines will base
pair with the smaller pyrimidines to form combinations of guanine paired with cytosine
(G:C) and adenine paired with either thymine (A:T) in the case of DNA, or adenine
paired with uracil (A:U) in the case of RNA. Inclusion of less common bases such as
inosine, 5-methylcytosine, 6-methyladenine, hypoxanthine and others in hybridizing
sequences does not interfere with pairing.
         [0134] Targeting double-stranded (ds) DNA with polynucleotides leads to triple
helix formation; targeting RNA will lead to double-helix formation.               Antisense
oligonucleotides, when introduced into a target cell, specifically bind to their target
polynucleotide and interfere with transcription, RNA processing, transport, translation
and/or stability. Antisense and RNAi constructs, or DNA encoding such RNA's, may be
employed to inhibit gene transcription or translation or both within a host cell, either in
vitro or in vivo, such as within a host plant cell. In certain embodiments of the invention,
such an oligonucleotide may comprise any unique portion of a nucleic acid sequence
provided herein. In certain embodiments of the invention, such a sequence comprises at
least 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, or 30 or more contiguous nucleic acids
of the nucleic acid sequence of a PPO1 1 gene, and/or complements thereof, which may
be in sense and/or antisense orientation.       By including sequences in both sense and
antisense orientation, increased suppression of the corresponding coding sequence may
be achieved.
         [0135] Constructs may be designed that are complementary to all or part of the
promoter and other control regions, exons, introns or even exon-intron boundaries of a
gene.     It is contemplated that the most effective constructs will include regions
                                              47

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
complementary to intron/exon splice junctions.       Thus, it is proposed that a preferred
embodiment includes a construct with complementarity to regions within 50-200 bases of
an intron-exon splice junction. It has been observed that some exon sequences can be
included in the construct without seriously affecting the target selectivity thereof. The
amount of exonic material included will vary depending on the particular exon and intron
sequences used. One can readily test whether too much exon DNA is included simply by
testing the constructs in vitro to determine whether normal cellular function is affected or
whether the expression of related genes having complementary sequences is affected.
         [0136] As stated above, "complementary" or "antisense" means polynucleotide
sequences that are substantially complementary over their entire length and have very
few base mismatches. For example, sequences of fifteen bases in length may be termed
complementary when they have complementary nucleotides at thirteen or fourteen
positions. Naturally, sequences which are completely complementary will be sequences
which are entirely complementary throughout their entire length and have no base
mismatches. Other sequences with lower degrees of homology also are contemplated.
For example, an RNAi or antisense construct which has limited regions of high
homology, but also contains a non-homologous region (e.g., ribozyme; see above) could
be designed. These molecules, though having less than 50% homology, would bind to
target sequences under appropriate conditions.
         [0137] It may be advantageous to combine portions of genomic DNA with cDNA
or synthetic sequences to generate specific constructs. For example, where an intron is
desired in the ultimate construct, a genomic clone will need to be used. The cDNA or a
synthesized polynucleotide may provide more convenient restriction sites for the
remaining portion of the construct and, therefore, would be used for the rest of the
sequence.
        Methods for Genetic Transformation
         [0138] Suitable methods for transformation of plant or other cells for use with the
current invention are believed to include virtually any method by which DNA can be
introduced into a cell, such as by direct delivery of DNA such as by PEG-mediated
transformation of protoplasts (Omirulleh et al., 1993), by desiccation/inhibition-mediated
DNA uptake (Potrykus et al., 1985), by electroporation (U.S. Patent No. 5,384,253,
                                             48

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), by agitation with silicon
carbide fibers (Kaeppler et al., 1990; U.S. Patent No. 5,302,523, specifically incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety; and U.S. Patent No. 5,464,765, specifically
incorporated    herein   by    reference in   its entirety), by Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation (U.S. Patent No. 5,591,616 and U.S. Patent No. 5,563,055; both
specifically incorporated herein by reference) and by acceleration of DNA coated
particles (U.S. Patent No. 5,550,318; U.S. Patent No. 5,538,877; and U.S. Patent No.
5,538,880; each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), etc.
Through the application of techniques such as these, the cells of virtually any plant
species may be stably transformed, and these cells developed into transgenic plants.
         A.     Agrobacterium-mediated Transformation
         [0139] Agrobacterium-mediated transfer is a widely applicable system for
introducing genes into plant cells because the DNA can be introduced into whole plant
tissues, thereby bypassing the need for regeneration of an intact plant from a protoplast.
The use of Agrobacterium-mediated plant integrating vectors to introduce DNA into
plant cells is well known in the art. See, for example, the methods described by Fraley et
al., (1985), Rogers et al., (1987) and U.S. Patent No. 5,563,055, specifically incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
         [0140] Agrobacterium-mediated       transformation    is   most      efficient   in
dicotyledonous plants and is the preferable method for transformation of dicots, including
Arabidopsis, tobacco, tomato, alfalfa and potato. Indeed, while Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation has been routinely used with dicotyledonous plants for a number of years,
it has only recently become applicable to monocotyledonous plants.             Advances in
Agrobacterium-mediated transformation techniques have now made the technique
applicable to nearly all monocotyledonous plants. For example, Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation techniques have now been applied to rice (Hiei et al., 1997; U.S. Patent
No. 5,591,616, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), wheat
(McCormac et al., 1998), barley (Tingay et al., 1997; McCormac et al., 1998), alfalfa
(Thomas et al., 1990) and maize (Ishidia et al., 1996).
         [0141] Modern Agrobacterium transformation vectors are capable of replication
in E. coli as well as Agrobacterium, allowing for convenient manipulations as described
                                             49

WO 2014/047653                                                          PCT/US2013/061475
(Klee et al.,    1985).      Moreover, recent technological advances      in vectors   for
Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer have improved the arrangement of genes and
restriction sites in the vectors to facilitate the construction of vectors capable of
expressing various polypeptide coding genes. The vectors described (Rogers et al., 1987)
have convenient multi-linker regions flanked by a promoter and a polyadenylation site for
direct expression of inserted polypeptide coding genes and are suitable for present
purposes. In addition, Agrobacterium containing both armed and disarmed Ti genes can
be used for the transformations.     In those plant strains where Agrobacterium-mediated
transformation is efficient, it is the method of choice because of the facile and defined
nature of the gene transfer.
         B.     Electroporation
         [0142] To effect transformation by electroporation, one may employ either friable
tissues, such as a suspension culture of cells or embryogenic callus or alternatively one
may transform immature embryos or other organized tissue directly. In this technique,
one would partially degrade the cell walls of the chosen cells by exposing them to pectin
degrading enzymes (pectolyases) or mechanically wounding in a controlled manner.
Examples of some species which have been transformed by electroporation of intact cells
include maize (U.S. Patent No. 5,384,253; Rhodes et al., 1995; D'Halluin et al., 1992),
wheat (Zhou et al., 1993), tomato (Hou and Lin, 1996), soybean (Christou et al., 1987)
and tobacco (Lee et al., 1989).
         [0143] One also may employ protoplasts for electroporation transformation of
plants (Bates, 1994; Lazzeri, 1995). For example, the generation of transgenic soybean
plants by electroporation of cotyledon-derived protoplasts is described by Dhir and
Widholm in Intl. Patent Appl. Publ. No. WO 9217598 (specifically incorporated herein
by reference). Other examples of species for which protoplast transformation has been
described include barley (Lazerri,       1995), sorghum (Battraw et al.,     1991), maize
(Bhattacharjee et al., 1997), wheat (He et al., 1994) and tomato (Tsukada, 1989).
         C.     Microprojectile Bombardment
         [0144] Another method for delivering transforming DNA segments to plant cells
in accordance with the invention is microprojectile bombardment (U.S. Patent No.
5,550,318; U.S. Patent No. 5,538,880; U.S. Patent No. 5,610,042; and PCT Application
                                              50

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
WO 94/09699; each of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety). In this method, particles may be coated with nucleic acids and delivered into
cells by a propelling force. Exemplary particles include those comprised of tungsten,
platinum, and preferably, gold.        It is contemplated that in some instances DNA
precipitation onto metal particles would not be necessary for DNA delivery to a recipient
cell using microprojectile bombardment. However, it is contemplated that particles may
contain DNA rather than be coated with DNA. Hence, it is proposed that DNA-coated
particles may increase the level of DNA delivery via particle bombardment but are not, in
and of themselves, necessary.
         [0145] For the bombardment, cells in suspension are concentrated on filters or
solid culture medium. Alternatively, immature embryos or other target cells may be
arranged on solid culture medium.        The cells to be bombarded are positioned at an
appropriate distance below the macroprojectile stopping plate.
         [0146] An illustrative embodiment of a method for delivering DNA into plant
cells by acceleration is the Biolistics Particle Delivery System, which can be used to
propel particles coated with DNA or cells through a screen, such as a stainless steel or
Nytex screen, onto a filter surface covered with monocot plant cells cultured in
suspension.     The screen disperses the particles so that they are not delivered to the
recipient cells in large aggregates. Microprojectile bombardment techniques are widely
applicable, and may be used to transform virtually any plant species.          Examples of
species for which have been transformed by microprojectile bombardment include
monocot species such as maize (PCT Application WO 95/06128), barley (Ritala et al.,
1994; Hensgens et al., 1993), wheat (U.S. Patent No. 5,563,055, specifically incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety), rice (Hensgens et al., 1993), oat (Torbet et al., 1995;
Torbet et al., 1998), rye (Hensgens et al., 1993), sugarcane (Bower et al., 1992), and
sorghum (Casa et al., 1993; Hagio et al., 1991); as well as a number of dicots including
tobacco (Tomes et al., 1990; Buising and Benbow, 1994), soybean (U.S. Patent No.
5,322,783, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety), sunflower
(Knittel et al., 1994), peanut (Singsit et al., 1997), cotton (McCabe and Martinell, 1993),
tomato (VanEck et al., 1995), and legumes in general (U.S. Patent No. 5,563,055,
specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety).
                                                51

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
         D.     Other Transformation Methods
         [0147] Transformation of protoplasts can be achieved using methods based on
calcium phosphate precipitation, polyethylene glycol treatment, electroporation, and
combinations of these treatments (see, e.g., Potrykus et al., 1985; Lorz et al., 1985;
Omirulleh et al., 1993; Fromm et al., 1986; Uchimiya et al., 1986; Callis et al., 1987;
Marcotte et al., 1988).
         [0148] Application of these systems to different plant strains depends upon the
ability to regenerate that particular plant strain from protoplasts. Illustrative methods for
the regeneration of cereals from protoplasts have been described (Toriyama et al., 1986;
Yamada et al., 1986; Abdullah et al., 1986; Omirulleh et al., 1993 and U.S. Patent No.
5,508,184; each specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Examples
of the use of direct uptake transformation of cereal protoplasts include transformation of
rice (Ghosh-Biswas et al., 1994), sorghum (Battraw and Hall, 1991), barley (Lazerri,
1995), oat (Zheng and Edwards, 1990) and maize (Omirulleh et al., 1993).
         [0149] To transform plant strains that cannot be successfully regenerated from
protoplasts, other ways to introduce DNA into intact cells or tissues can be utilized. For
example, regeneration of cereals from immature embryos or explants can be effected as
described (Vasil, 1989). Also, silicon carbide fiber-mediated transformation may be used
with or without protoplasting (Kaeppler, 1990; Kaeppler et al., 1992; U.S. Patent No.
5,563,055, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety). Transformation
with this technique is accomplished by agitating silicon carbide fibers together with cells
in a DNA solution. DNA passively enters as the cells are punctured. This technique has
been used successfully with, for example, the monocot cereals maize (PCT Application
WO 95/06128, specifically incorporated herein by reference in its entirety; (Thompson,
1995) and rice (Nagatani, 1997).
         E.     Tissue Cultures
         [0150] Tissue cultures may be used in certain transformation techniques for the
preparation of cells for transformation and for the regeneration of plants therefrom.
Maintenance of tissue cultures requires use of media and controlled environments.
"Media" refers to the numerous nutrient mixtures that are used to grow cells in vitro, that
is, outside of the intact living organism. The medium usually is a suspension of various
                                               52

WO 2014/047653                                                               PCT/US2013/061475
categories of ingredients (salts, amino acids, growth regulators, sugars, buffers) that are
required for growth of most cell types.        However, each specific cell type requires a
specific range of ingredient proportions for growth, and an even more specific range of
formulas for optimum growth. Rate of cell growth also will vary among cultures initiated
with the array of media that permit growth of that cell type.
         [0151] Nutrient media is prepared as a liquid, but this may be solidified by adding
the liquid to materials capable of providing a solid support. Agar is most commonly used
for this purpose. Bactoagar, Hazelton agar, Gelrite, and Gelgro are specific types of solid
support that are suitable for growth of plant cells in tissue culture.
         [0152] Some cell types will grow and divide either in liquid suspension or on
solid media. As disclosed herein, plant cells will grow in suspension or on solid medium,
but regeneration of plants from suspension cultures typically requires transfer from liquid
to solid media at some point in development. The type and extent of differentiation of
cells in culture will be affected not only by the type of media used and by the
environment, for example, pH, but also by whether media is solid or liquid.
         [0153] Tissue that can be grown in a culture includes meristem cells, Type I,
Type II, and Type III callus, immature embryos and gametic cells such as microspores,
pollen, sperm and egg cells. Type I, Type II, and Type III callus may be initiated from
tissue sources including, but not limited to, immature embryos, seedling apical
meristems, root, leaf, microspores and the like.          Those cells which are capable of
proliferating as callus also are recipient cells for genetic transformation.
         [0154] Somatic cells are of various types. Embryogenic cells are one example of
somatic cells which may be induced to regenerate a plant through embryo formation.
Non-embryogenic cells are those which typically will not respond in such a fashion.
Certain techniques may be used that enrich recipient cells within a cell population. For
example, Type II callus development, followed by manual selection and culture of
friable, embryogenic tissue, generally results in an enrichment of cells. Manual selection
techniques which can be employed to select target cells may include, e.g., assessing cell
morphology and differentiation, or may use various physical or biological means.
Cryopreservation also is a possible method of selecting for recipient cells.
         [0155] Manual selection of recipient cells, e.g., by selecting embryogenic cells
                                               53

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
from the surface of a Type II callus, is one means that may be used in an attempt to
enrich for particular cells prior to culturing (whether cultured on solid media or in
suspension).
         [0156] Where employed, cultured cells may be grown either on solid supports or
in the form of liquid suspensions.     In either instance, nutrients may be provided to the
cells in the form of media, and environmental conditions controlled. There are many
types of tissue culture media comprised of various amino acids, salts, sugars, growth
regulators and vitamins. Most of the media employed in the practice of the invention will
have some similar components, but may differ in the composition and proportions of their
ingredients depending on the particular application envisioned. For example, various cell
types usually grow in more than one type of media, but will exhibit different growth rates
and different morphologies, depending on the growth media.            In some media, cells
survive but do not divide.      Various types of media suitable for culture of plant cells
previously have been described. Examples of these media include, but are not limited to,
the N6 medium described by Chu et al. (1975) and MS media (Murashige and Skoog,
1962).
        Production and Characterization of Stably Transformed Plants
         [0157] After effecting delivery of exogenous DNA to recipient cells, the next
steps generally concern identifying the transformed cells for further culturing and plant
regeneration. In order to improve the ability to identify transformants, one may desire to
employ a selectable or screenable marker gene with a transformation vector prepared in
accordance with the invention.        In this case, one would then generally assay the
potentially transformed cell population by exposing the cells to a selective agent or
agents, or one would screen the cells for the desired marker gene trait.
        A.      Selection
         [0158] It is believed that DNA is introduced into only a small percentage of target
cells in any one study. In order to provide an efficient system for identification of those
cells receiving DNA and integrating it into their genomes one may employ a means for
selecting those cells that are stably transformed. One exemplary embodiment of such a
method is to introduce into the host cell, a marker gene which confers resistance to some
normally inhibitory agent, such as an antibiotic or herbicide.       Examples of antibiotics
                                              54

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
which may be used include the aminoglycoside antibiotics neomycin, kanamycin and
paromomycin, or the antibiotic hygromycin. Resistance to the aminoglycoside antibiotics
is conferred by aminoglycoside phosphostransferase           enzymes such as neomycin
phosphotransferase II (NPT II) or NPT I, whereas resistance to hygromycin is conferred
by hygromycin phosphotransferase.
         [0159] Potentially transformed cells then are exposed to the selective agent. In
the population of surviving cells will be those cells where, generally, the resistance
conferring gene has been integrated and expressed at sufficient levels to permit cell
survival.   Cells may be tested further to confirm stable integration of the exogenous
DNA.
         [0160] One herbicide which constitutes a desirable selection agent is the broad
spectrum herbicide bialaphos.         Bialaphos is a tripeptide antibiotic produced by
Streptomyces hygroscopicus and is composed of phosphinothricin (PPT), an analogue of
L-glutamic acid, and two L-alanine residues. Upon removal of the L-alanine residues by
intracellular peptidases, the PPT is released and is a potent inhibitor of glutamine
synthetase (GS), a pivotal enzyme involved in ammonia assimilation and nitrogen
metabolism (Ogawa et al., 1973). Synthetic PPT, the active ingredient in the herbicide
LibertyED also is effective as a selection agent. Inhibition of GS in plants by PPT causes
the rapid accumulation of ammonia and death of the plant cells.
         [0161] The organism producing bialaphos and other species of the genus
Streptomyces also synthesizes an enzyme phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT)
which is encoded by the bar gene in Streptomyces hygroscopicus and the pat gene in
Streptomyces viridochromogenes.        The use of the herbicide resistance gene encoding
phosphinothricin acetyl transferase (PAT) is referred to in DE 3642 829 A, wherein the
gene is isolated from Streptomyces viridochromogenes. In the bacterial source organism,
this enzyme acetylates the free amino group of PPT preventing auto-toxicity (Thompson
et al., 1987). The bar gene has been cloned (Murakami et al., 1986; Thompson et al.,
1987) and expressed in transgenic tobacco, tomato, potato (De Block et al., 1987)
Brassica (De Block et al., 1989) and maize (U.S. Patent No. 5,550,318).         In previous
reports, some transgenic plants which expressed the resistance gene were completely
resistant to commercial formulations of PPT and bialaphos in greenhouses.
                                              55

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
        [0162] Another example of a herbicide which is useful for selection of
transformed cell lines in the practice of the invention is the broad spectrum herbicide
glyphosate. Glyphosate inhibits the action of the enzyme EPSPS which is active in the
aromatic amino acid biosynthetic pathway. Inhibition of this enzyme leads to starvation
for the amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan and secondary metabolites
derived thereof. U.S. Patent No. 4,535,060 describes the isolation of EPSPS mutations
which confer glyphosate resistance on the Salmonella typhimurium gene for EPSPS,
aroA. The EPSPS gene was cloned from Zea mays and mutations similar to those found
in a glyphosate resistant aroA gene were introduced in vitro.        Mutant genes encoding
glyphosate resistant EPSPS enzymes are described in, for example, International Patent
WO 97/4103.        The best characterized mutant EPSPS gene conferring glyphosate
resistance comprises amino acid changes at residues 102 and 106, although it is
anticipated that other mutations will also be useful (PCT/W097/4103).
        [0163] To use the bar-bialaphos or the EPSPS-glyphosate selective system,
transformed tissue is cultured for 0 - 28 days on nonselective medium and subsequently
transferred to medium containing from 1-3 mg/l bialaphos or 1-3 mM glyphosate as
appropriate. While ranges of 1-3 mg/l bialaphos or 1-3 mM glyphosate will typically be
preferred, it is proposed that ranges of 0.1-50 mg/l bialaphos or 0.1-50 mM glyphosate
will find utility.
        [0164] An example of a screenable marker trait is the enzyme luciferase. In the
presence of the substrate luciferin, cells expressing luciferase emit light which can be
detected on photographic or x-ray film, in a luminometer (or liquid scintillation counter),
by devices that enhance night vision, or by a highly light sensitive video camera, such as
a photon counting camera. These assays are nondestructive and transformed cells may be
cultured further following identification.     The photon counting camera is especially
valuable as it allows one to identify specific cells or groups of cells which are expressing
luciferase and manipulate those in real time. Another screenable marker which may be
used in a similar fashion is the gene coding for green fluorescent protein.
        B.       Regeneration and Seed Production
        [0165] Cells that survive the exposure to the selective agent, or cells that have
been scored positive in a screening assay, may be cultured in media that supports
                                              56

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
regeneration of plants.    In an exemplary embodiment, MS and N6 media may be
modified by including further substances such as growth regulators. One such growth
regulator is dicamba or 2,4-D.     However, other growth regulators may be employed,
including NAA, NAA + 2,4-D or picloram. Media improvement in these and like ways
has been found to facilitate the growth of cells at specific developmental stages. Tissue
may be maintained on a basic media with growth regulators until sufficient tissue is
available to begin plant regeneration efforts, or following repeated rounds of manual
selection, until the morphology of the tissue is suitable for regeneration, at least 2 wk,
then transferred to media conducive to maturation of embryoids. Cultures are transferred
every 2 wk on this medium.        Shoot development will signal the time to transfer to
medium lacking growth regulators.
         [0166] The transformed cells, identified by selection or screening and cultured in
an appropriate medium that supports regeneration, will then be allowed to mature into
plants. Developing plantlets are transferred to soiless plant growth mix, and hardened,
e.g., in an environmentally controlled chamber, for example, at about 85% relative
humidity, 600 ppm C02, and 25-250 microeinsteins m 2 s-i of light. Plants may be
matured in a growth chamber or greenhouse. Plants can be regenerated from about 6 wk
to 10 months after a transformant is identified, depending on the initial tissue. During
regeneration, cells are grown on solid media in tissue culture vessels.         Illustrative
embodiments of such vessels are petri dishes and Plant Cons. Regenerating plants can be
grown at about 19 to 28'C. After the regenerating plants have reached the stage of shoot
and root development, they may be transferred to a greenhouse for further growth and
testing.
         [0167] Seeds on transformed plants may occasionally require embryo rescue due
to cessation of seed development and premature senescence of plants.            To rescue
developing embryos, they are excised from surface-disinfected seeds 10-20 days post
pollination and cultured.    An embodiment of media used for culture at this stage
comprises MS salts, 2% sucrose, and 5.5 g/l agarose. In embryo rescue, large embryos
(defined as greater than 3 mm in length) are germinated directly on an appropriate media.
Embryos smaller than that may be cultured for 1 wk on media containing the above
ingredients along with 10-5M abscisic acid and then transferred to growth regulator-free
                                             57

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
medium for germination.
        C.      Characterization
        [0168] To confirm the presence of the exogenous DNA or "transgene(s)" in the
regenerating plants, a variety of assays may be performed.         Such assays include, for
example, "molecular biological" assays, such as Southern and Northern blotting and
PCRTM; "biochemical" assays, such as detecting the presence of a protein product, e.g.,
by immunological means (ELISAs and Western blots) or by enzymatic function; plant
part assays, such as leaf or root assays; and also, by analyzing the phenotype of the whole
regenerated plant.
        D.      DNA Integration, RNA Expression and Inheritance
        [0169] Genomic DNA may be isolated from cell lines or any plant parts to
determine the presence of the exogenous gene through the use of techniques well known
to those skilled in the art.     Note, that intact sequences will not always be present,
presumably due to rearrangement or deletion of sequences in the cell. The presence of
DNA elements introduced through the methods of this invention may be determined, for
example, by polymerase chain reaction (PCRTM).              Using this technique, discreet
fragments of DNA are amplified and detected by gel electrophoresis.           This type of
analysis permits one to determine whether a gene is present in a stable transformant, but
does not prove integration of the introduced gene into the host cell genome.           It is
typically the case, however, that DNA has been integrated into the genome of all
transformants that demonstrate the presence of the gene through PCRTM analysis.           In
addition, it is not typically possible using PCRTM techniques to determine whether
transformants have exogenous genes introduced into different sites in the genome, i.e.,
whether transformants are of independent origin. It is contemplated that using PCRTM
techniques it would be possible to clone fragments of the host genomic DNA adjacent to
an introduced gene.
        [0170] Positive proof of DNA integration into the host genome and the
independent identities of transformants may be determined using the technique of
Southern hybridization.       Using this technique specific DNA sequences that were
introduced into the host genome and flanking host DNA sequences can be identified.
Hence the Southern hybridization pattern of a given transformant serves as an identifying
                                              58

WO 2014/047653                                                          PCT/US2013/061475
characteristic of that transformant.      In addition it is possible through Southern
hybridization to demonstrate the presence of introduced genes in high molecular weight
DNA, i.e., confirm that the introduced gene has been integrated into the host cell genome.
The technique of Southern hybridization provides information that is obtained using
PCRTM, e.g., the presence of a gene, but also demonstrates integration into the genome
and characterizes each individual transformant.
        [0171] It is contemplated that using the techniques of dot or slot blot
hybridization which are modifications of Southern hybridization techniques one could
obtain the same information that is derived from PCRTM, e.g., the presence of a gene.
        [0172] Both PCRTM and Southern hybridization techniques can be used to
demonstrate transmission of a transgene to progeny. In most instances the characteristic
Southern hybridization pattern for a given transformant will segregate in progeny as one
or more Mendelian genes (Spencer et al., 1992) indicating stable inheritance of the
transgene.
        [0173] Whereas DNA analysis techniques may be conducted using DNA isolated
from any part of a plant, RNA will only be expressed in particular cells or tissue types
and hence it will be necessary to prepare RNA for analysis from these tissues. PCRTM
techniques also may be used for detection and quantitation of RNA produced from
introduced genes. In this application of PCRTM it is first necessary to reverse transcribe
RNA into DNA, using enzymes such as reverse transcriptase, and then through the use of
conventional PCRTM techniques amplify the DNA. In most instances PCRTM techniques,
while useful, will not demonstrate integrity of the RNA product. Further information
about the nature of the RNA product may be obtained by Northern blotting.              This
technique will demonstrate the presence of an RNA species and give information about
the integrity of that RNA.    The presence or absence of an RNA species also can be
determined using dot or slot blot Northern hybridizations.         These techniques are
modifications of Northern blotting and will only demonstrate the presence or absence of
an RNA species.
        E.     Gene Expression
        [0174] While Southern blotting and PCRTM may be used to detect the gene(s) in
question, they do not provide information as to whether the corresponding protein is
                                             59

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
being expressed. Expression may be evaluated by specifically identifying the protein
products of the introduced genes or evaluating the phenotypic changes brought about by
their expression.
         [0175] Assays for the production and identification of specific proteins may make
use of physical-chemical, structural, functional, or other properties of the proteins.
Unique physical-chemical or structural properties allow the proteins to be separated and
identified by electrophoretic procedures, such as native or denaturing gel electrophoresis
or isoelectric focusing, or by chromatographic techniques such as ion exchange or gel
exclusion chromatography.         The unique structures      of individual proteins    offer
opportunities for use of specific antibodies to detect their presence in formats such as an
ELISA assay.       Combinations of approaches may be employed with even greater
specificity such as western blotting in which antibodies are used to locate individual gene
products that have been separated by electrophoretic techniques. Additional techniques
may be employed to absolutely confirm the identity of the product of interest such as
evaluation by amino acid sequencing following purification. Although these are among
the most commonly employed, other procedures may be additionally used.
         [0176] Assay procedures also may be used to identify the expression of proteins
by their functionality, especially the ability of enzymes to catalyze specific chemical
reactions involving specific substrates and products. These reactions may be followed by
providing and quantifying the loss of substrates or the generation of products of the
reactions by physical or chemical procedures. Examples are as varied as the enzyme to
be analyzed and may include assays for PAT enzymatic activity by following production
of radiolabeled acetylated phosphinothricin from phosphinothricin and 14C-acetyl CoA
or for anthranilate synthase activity by following loss of fluorescence of anthranilate, to
name two.
         [0177] Very frequently the expression of a gene product is determined by
evaluating the phenotypic results of its expression. These assays also may take many
forms including but not limited to analyzing changes in the chemical composition,
morphology, or physiological properties of the plant.       Chemical composition may be
altered by expression of genes encoding enzymes or storage proteins which change amino
acid composition and may be detected by amino acid analysis, or by enzymes which
                                             60

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
change starch quantity which may be analyzed by near infrared reflectance spectrometry.
Morphological changes may include greater stature or thicker stalks. Most often changes
in response of plants or plant parts to imposed treatments are evaluated under carefully
controlled conditions termed bioassays.
        Breeding! Plants of the Invention
         [0178] In addition to direct transformation of a particular plant genotype with a
construct prepared according to the current invention, transgenic plants may be made by
crossing a plant having a selected DNA of the invention to a second plant lacking the
construct. For example, a selected lignin biosynthesis coding sequence can be introduced
into a particular plant variety by crossing, without the need for ever directly transforming
a plant of that given variety. Therefore, the current invention not only encompasses a
plant directly transformed or regenerated from cells which have been transformed in
accordance with the current invention, but also the progeny of such plants.
         [0179] As used herein the term "progeny" denotes the offspring of any generation
of a parent plant prepared in accordance with the instant invention, wherein the progeny
comprises a selected DNA construct. "Crossing" a plant to provide a plant line having
one or more added transgenes relative to a starting plant line, as disclosed herein, is
defined as the techniques that result in a transgene of the invention being introduced into
a plant line by crossing a starting line with a donor plant line that comprises a transgene
of the invention. To achieve this one could, for example, perform the following steps:
        (a)     plant seeds of the first (starting line) and second (donor plant line that
        comprises a transgene of the invention) parent plants;
        (b)     grow the seeds of the first and second parent plants into plants that bear
        flowers;
        (c)     pollinate a flower from the first parent plant with pollen from the second
        parent plant; and
        (d)     harvest seeds produced on the parent plant bearing the fertilized flower.
         [0180] Backcrossing is herein defined as the process including the steps of:
        (a)     crossing a plant of a first genotype containing a desired gene, DNA
        sequence or element to a plant of a second genotype lacking the desired gene,
        DNA sequence or element;
                                              61

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
        (b)     selecting one or more progeny plant containing the desired gene, DNA
        sequence or element;
        (c)     crossing the progeny plant to a plant of the second genotype; and
        (d)     repeating steps (b) and (c) for the purpose of transferring a desired DNA
        sequence from a plant of a first genotype to a plant of a second genotype.
        [0181] Introgression of a DNA element into a plant genotype is defined as the
result of the process of backcross conversion.      A plant genotype into which a DNA
sequence has been introgressed may be referred to as a backcross converted genotype,
line, inbred, or hybrid. Similarly a plant genotype lacking the desired DNA sequence
may be referred to as an unconverted genotype, line, inbred, or hybrid.
                                        EXAMPLES
    Example 1: Total PPO enzyme activity does not predict shelf life performance
        [0182] A panel of 23 cultivars including discoloration controls were sown in a
three replicate trial in a single environment. The cultivars were harvested on the same
day and total PPO enzymatic activity was determined.          A normal distribution of total
units of PPO activity (U PPO Activity--uM * min-I * ug-1) was observed amongst the 23
cultivars. The varieties with the five highest and five lowest PPO activities were then
grown in a second environment, and shelf life was determined using a 6 replicate
randomized complete block design. It was recognized that the harvest activity did not
predict shelf life performance, the two most discoloration resistant varieties in this set
were identified as having high enzymatic activity.        In a comparison of harvest PPO
enzymatic activity (total) for 8 different harvests of discoloration controls, 7 of 8
comparisons were not statistically differentiated.      These results were surprising and
unexpected because Enzymatic activity, the sum total of activity of all active enzymes,
had previously been believed to be a predictor of shelf life.
            Example 2: PPO11 expression increases over time after harvest
        [0183]   Eleven (11) PPO gene homologs, shown in Fig. 1, and 3 PAL gene
homologs were identified in lettuce.      Gene expression analysis of these discoloration
pathway     enzyme     homologs     were   evaluated   for    correlation  to  discoloration
phenotype/shelf life performance. The ability to correlate PPO enzyme activity at harvest
                                             62

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
or induction of specific pathway genes with shelf life performance provided a focused
selection tool to enable a breeding program to improve shelf life performance.
        [0184] RT PCR protocol: QRT-PCRs were performed as described in the
operator's manual using a Stratagene MX3000PTM.            Gene-specific PCR primers were
designed using criteria including predicted melting temperature of at least 58'C, primer
length of 22-24 nucleotides, guanosine-cytosine content of at least 48%, and an
amplicon length of 120-150 bp. Primer specificity was confirmed by melting curve
analysis, by an efficiency of product amplification of 1.0 § 0.1, and by sequence
verification of at least eight cloned PCR amplicons for each gene. Reactions with water
instead of cDNA template were run with each primer pair as control.          The standard
thermal profile: 95'C for 10 min, then 60 cycles of 95'C for 30 s, 53'C for 30 s and 72'C
for 30 s was used. The fluorescence signal was captured at the end of each cycle, and a
melting curve analysis was performed from the annealing temperature to 95'C with data
capture every 0.2'C during a 1 s hold. The quantity of each transcript is the average of
two technical replicates. All amplification plots were analyzed with the MX3000PTM
software to obtain threshold cycle (Ct) values. Transcript abundance was normalized to
the transcript abundance of ubiquitin (GenBank accession number EF681766).
        [0185] The results are shown in Fig. 2, which provides a time-course experiment
of the expression profile of PPOs.       Two homologs of PPO, PPO2 and PPOl 1, were
upregulated after harvest. PPO1 1 was the most upregulated PPO during the time-course
experiment. The expression of PPO1 and PPOlO went down over time. The expression
of PPO8 did not change over time.
        Example 3: Determining shelf life of lettuce
        [0186] The current industry standard for assessing lettuce performance, browning,
or shelf life is to evaluate a lettuce variety in a modified atmosphere package at 14 days
after processing and ensure that less than 2% visible pinking or browning occurs. The
performance of individual varieties beyond 4 days has been unknown. The performance
of chopped lettuce varieties in an ambient air assay at 4'C is evaluated. Such evaluation
allows lettuce variety performance to be distinguished in a rapid manner. In addition,
correlation of polyphenol oxidase enzymatic (PPO) activity in the central rib of each
variety with lettuce performance was tested.
                                               63

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
         [0187] To carry out the shelf live evaluation, six heads of lettuce are collected and
packaged into a waxed cardboard box. A refrigerated truck, set to 41'F, is used for
sample transport.
         [0188] Individual heads are removed from the plastic bag and the ID tag placed
into a single blue tray. Two empty barcoded 50ml tubes are placed into the tray and the
sample can then move on for chopping. Outer damaged leaves are removed and the base
is cut off. The stem is removed and discarded, the inner heart leaves (yellow and less
than 6 inches long) are discarded. From each head, two leaves from outer and inner
leaves are set aside for central rib evaluation, 12 leaves in total are collected. All of the
remaining lettuce leaves are chopped for shelf life evaluation.
         [0189] Central Rib evaluation: From the 12 petioles (6 heads x 2 leaves) the
upper leafy material and the material from the edge along the bottom 2/3 of the lettuce rib
are removed using a knife.      The leafy material is discarded and the lower 2/3 of the
central ribs are retained. All ribs are chopped into 1 inch slices, mixed by hand and then
subsampled into tubes filling to the 30 ml line.
         [0190] Romaine, CRC, and spinach-type lettuce are prepared as follows.            The
leafy material above the rib is removed.       Excess leafy material parallel to the rib is
removed to leave only about 1-2 inches of leafy material on each side of the rib. If the
leaf is narrow enough, this step is not performed. The rib and flanking leafy pieces are
chopped into   34 inch pieces perpendicular to the rib length. All material is collected and
immersed into cold fresh water using a large screen basket, transferred into an electric
salad spinner and dried for 60 seconds. Three amply full quart clamshells (individual
barcodes) are collected if available.     Any remaining chopped lettuce is collected in a
barcoded black tray.
         [0191] Iceberg type lettuce: are to be prepared as follows: The lettuce is chopped
into 34 inch strips and then these strips are chopped at a 900 angle into     34 inch squares.
All material is collected into a blue bin, washed in mesh basket, and spun dry for 60
seconds in an electric salad spinner.       Three amply full quart clamshells (individual
barcodes) are collected if available.     Any remaining chopped lettuce is collected in a
barcoded black tray. The samples are scanned in order, falcon tubes are stored -80'C,
and the samples are visually rated and image analysis is performed by Visual Ratings and
                                              64

WO 2014/047653                                                          PCT/US2013/061475
image analysis.
         [0192] Visual Ratings: Beginning at 72hrs after processing, each sample will be
scored on a 1 (best) to 5 (worst) rating scale against reference photos by multiple
individuals independently.     It is necessary to ensure adequate lighting to discern
differences in browning. Ideally the samples will be rated at day 3, 5, and 7 according to
the reference photos, and the timing of clamshell evaluations to be done as blocks from
the field. The combined score for each clamshell will be recorded.
         [0193] Image Analysis:     The lettuce pieces     in each black tray will be
photographed at the same time points as the visual ratings. A light station with Rosco
Litepad HO+, 3"x12" light bars set at a 400 angle from horizontal on either side at a
distance of 18" from the work surface will be used. Images are collected with a Canon
EOS Rebel T3 that is positioned at 53 cm above the platform. The amount of
discoloration is determined by image analysis using a custom Matlab program to quantify
the number of brown pixels relative to the number of pixels representing the total lettuce
leaf area.
         Example 4: Expression of PPO11 correlates with browning and reduced shelf
         life
         [0194] The levels of expression of PPO2, PPO8, PPO10, PPO11 and PAL1 were
determined by testing central mid rib RNA extractions from materials collected at the
time of processing or after 7-9 days of storage in ambient air at 4'C. RNA samples were
prepared using PureLink® Plant RNA Reagent (Ambion) kit following procedures
recommended by the manufacturer.        QRT-PCRs were performed as described in the
operator's manual using a Stratagene MX3000PTM.          Gene-specific PCR primers were
designed (see Table 2). All amplification plots were analyzed with the MX3000PTM
software to obtain threshold cycle (Ct) values. Transcript abundance was normalized to
the transcript abundance of ubiquitin (GenBank accession number EF681766).
         [0195] Table 2. Gene-specific PCR primers:
                    Amplico                         Fluorescent
   SEQ ID NOs           n         Primer Name           Tag                5'->3'
                                                                  CGTCGAGATTCTGCGAG
  SEQ ID NO:12        PAL1           PAL1-F              -        AAAG
                                                                  GCAAACGTCGTCGATGT
  SEQ ID NO:13        PAL1           PAL1-R              -        AAGC
  SEQ ID NO:14        PAL1        LsPAL1 Probe         6FAM       CTCCTCCGTGTTGTTGAT
                                             65

WO 2014/047653                                                         PCT/US2013/061475
                                                                CGTGAATACGTC
                                                                GCAAGTTCAATAAAGCCA
  SEQ ID NO:15       PPO1           PPO1-F              -       TCGA
                                                                CGCAATAGGCACAATGA
  SEQ ID NO:16       PPO1           PPO1-R              -       ACATT
                                                                CCCAGATGACGATCCTC
  SEQ ID NO:17       PPO1        LsPPO1 Probe         6FAM      GTAGCTTTAAGC
                                                                AAGGCTTCCAGAAACAT
  SEQ ID NO:18      PPO10          PPO1 0-F             -       CAAGAA
                                                                AGACTCGCCGGAAAAAC
  SEQ ID NO:19      PPO10          PPO10-R              -       ATCT
                                                                CATGCCCATGAACACATA
  SEQ ID NO:20      PPO10       LsPPO10Probe          6FAM      CCCTTTGCA
                                                                GCAAGATCAAGAAGCTC
  SEQ ID NO:21      PPO11          PPO11-F              -       GCTGTA
                                                                ACTCGCCGGAAAAACAT
  SEQ ID NO:22      PPO11          PPO11-R              -       CTTT
                                                                CGAGCCGATGAACACAT
  SEQ ID NO:23      PPO11       LsPPO11Probe          6FAM      ACCCTTTGC
                                                                GACGTACCATGGCTAAA
  SEQ ID NO:24       PPO2           PPO2-F              -       AAGCAA
                                                                CGATGGATTTCCTCGCA
  SEQ ID NO:25       PPO2           PPO2-R              -       ACT
                                                                CCAGTCCCACGTGCACC
  SEQ ID NO:26       PPO2        LsPPO2Probe          6FAM      CAGG
                                                                GCTGCAACAGACCCGGT
  SEQ ID NO:27       PPO8           PPO8-F              -       TA
                                                                CTGGCGGGTCCTTCTGA
  SEQ ID NO:28       PPO8           PPO8-R              -       TT
                                                                CCGAAGAGGAACAACAC
  SEQ ID NO:29       PPO8        LsPPO8Probe          6FAM      AAAGGACTTCCC
                                                                TTGTCTTGAATTTTAGCT
  SEQ ID NO:30      Ubiquitin     Ubiquitin-F           -       TTGACGTT
                                                                CCTTGACCGGAAAAACA
  SEQ ID NO:31      Ubiquitin     Ubiquitin-R           -       ATCA
                                                                TCAATGGTGTCGGAGCT
  SEQ ID NO:32      Ubiquitin  LsUbiquitinProbe        VIC      TTCCACTTCC
        [0196] A plot of Visual Discoloration vs the gene x time point combinations with
an r > 0.7 are shown in Fig. 3a and Fig. 4.        PPOl 1 was weakly expressed or not
expressed at harvest time but was strongly induced after processing and storage. PPOl 1
induction was observed to have the largest range of range of expression, as demonstrated
in Fig. 5.
        [0197] The correlation of PPOl 1 expression and visual discoloration in a large
scale experiment in a different environment is shown in Fig. 3B.      Again, the PPOl 1
expression levels 9 days after processing and cold storage with visual discoloration
ratings for two crisphead romaine cross, three iceberg, and five Romaine cultivars was
                                             66

WO 2014/047653                                                        PCT/US2013/061475
significant. Each point represents the least square mean for a single cultivar with six
biological replicates for both gene expression and visual ratings.
         [0198] In sum, the correlation of expression of PPO11 with a visual browning
phenotype was demonstrated in Figs. 3A-B, and a plot of visual discoloration was
provided in FIG. 4, demonstrating that browning was strongly correlated with expression
of PPO11.
         [0199] Example 5: Marker selection may be used to track the PPO11 locus
         [0200] Genetic marker sequences associated with a PPO1 1 locus with reduced
gene expression may be used to track that locus in a breeding program. A PPO 11 gene or
ortholog thereof gene with reduced expression may be identified, for example, by
screening for naturally occurring low expressing lines or by one of the methodologies
outlined herein. Once a reduced expression PPO1 1 locus is identified or made, marker
sequences associated with the PPO1 1 locus may be used to track the reduced expression
locus in segregating progeny from a plant cross. For example, sequence may be PCR
amplified from sequences flanking PP011, such as SEQ ID NO:10 and SEQ ID NO:11
and across the PPO1 1 genetic region in both parents of the cross.     Single nucleotide
polymorphisms or sequence differences between the two parents may be compared to
identify specific alleles from each parent associated with the normal expression or
reduced expression PPO1 1 gene. Sequence-based assay, (e.g. TaqMan) of these single
nucleotide polymorphisms or sequence differences in the segregating progeny of a cross
will allow selection of the marker allele linked to the desirable reduced expression
PPO11 gene.
        Example 6: Identification of PPO targets in potato and apple
         [0201] The PPO1 1 sequence included here may be used to search potato and
apple genome sequence data for PPO homologs.           Using the methods detailed here,
expression data from these PPO genes can be correlated with the incidence of browning
to identify PPO homolog targets for increasing shelf life. Once appropriate targets are
identified, their reduced expression may be identified or brought about and tracked via
the methodologies described here.
                                             67

WO 2014/047653                                                            PCT/US2013/061475
        WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
Claim 1.        A composition for topical application to a plant or part thereof, comprising
an amount of a Polyphenol Oxidase 11 (PPOll) inhibitory compound effective to
suppress expression of a PPOll gene or ortholog thereof, wherein expression of the
PPOl 1 gene or ortholog thereof in the absence of the inhibitory compound positively
correlates with browning of the plant or part thereof
Claim 2.        The composition of claim 1, further comprising a transfer agent or a
buffer.
Claim 3.        The composition of claim 1, further comprising an organosilicone
preparation as transfer agent.
Claim 4.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the PPO 11 inhibitory compound
comprises a sense ssDNA, sense ssRNA, dsRNA, dsDNA, a double stranded DNA/RNA
hybrid, anti-sense ssDNA, or anti-sense ssRNA.
Claim 5.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the PPO1 1 inhibitory compound
comprises an antisense oligonucleotide or dsRNA, or a nucleic acid encoding an
antisense oligonucleotide or dsRNA effective to suppress expression of PPO11.
Claim 6.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the PPO1 1 inhibitory compound
comprises a polynucleotide molecule that is at least 18 to about 24, about 25 to about 50,
about 51 to about 100, about 101 to about 300, about 301 to about 500, or at least about
500 or more nucleotides in length.
Claim 7.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the plant is lettuce and the PPOl 1
gene is encoded by a sequence comprising SEQ ID NO:9.
Claim 8.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the PPO1 1 inhibitory compound
comprises a polynucleotide comprising all or a part of a polynucleotide selected from the
group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-9, or a complement thereof.
Claim 9.        The composition of claim 1, wherein the amount of PPO1 1 inhibitory
compound is effective to reduce browning, or increase shelf life, of a processed plant
product.
Claim 10.       A method for reducing browning or increasing shelf life of a plant, or part
or product thereof, comprising topically applying to a surface of the plant or a part
thereof the composition of claim 1.
                                             68

WO 2014/047653                                                              PCT/US2013/061475
Claim 11.        The method of claim 10, wherein the plant is a potato, apple, spinach, or
lettuce plant.
Claim 12.        The method of claim 10, wherein the plant is a lettuce, and the PPO
inhibitory compound comprises a polynucleotide comprising at least 21 contiguous
nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:9, or a complement thereof.
Claim 13.        An expression cassette comprising a selected DNA operably linked to a
heterologous promoter, the selected DNA encoding an antisense RNA, an iRNA, or an
siRNA effective to suppress expression of a PPO1 1 gene or ortholog thereof, wherein
expression of the PPO1 1 gene is positively correlated with browning or reduced shelf life
of the plant, or part or product thereof.
Claim 14.        The expression cassette of claim 13, wherein the promoter is a leaf
specific promoter.
Claim 15.        The expression cassette of claim 13, wherein the selected DNA is operably
linked to the promoter in antisense orientation.
Claim 16.        The expression cassette of claim 13, wherein the PPO1 1 gene encodes the
polypeptide encoded by SEQ ID NO:9.
Claim 17.        The expression cassette of claim 13, wherein the selected DNA comprises
all or a portion of a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 1-9.
Claim 18.        The expression cassette of claim 13, wherein expression of the selected
DNA induces gene silencing, mRNA cleavage, or repressed translation of mRNA of a
PPO11 gene.
Claim 19.        The expression cassette of claim 13, wherein the selected DNA is at least
90% identical to at least 200 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID NO:9 or a complement
thereof; or comprises at least 18, 19, 20, 21, or 22 contiguous nucleotides of SEQ ID
NO:334 or a complement thereof; and wherein transcription of the selected DNA
suppresses expression of the PPO gene that is positively correlated with browning or
reduced shelf life of the plant, or portion or product thereof.
Claim 20.        A vector comprising the expression cassette of claim 13.
Claim 21.        A transgenic plant comprising the expression cassette of claim 13.
Claim 22.        The transgenic plant of claim 21, further defined as a dicot.
Claim 23.        The transgenic plant of claim 21, further defined as a lettuce plant.
                                               69

WO 2014/047653                                                             PCT/US2013/061475
Claim 24.       The transgenic plant of claim 21, further defined as an RO transgenic plant.
Claim 25.       The transgenic plant of claim 21, further defined as a progeny plant of any
generation of an RO transgenic plant, wherein the transgenic plant has inherited the
selected DNA from the RO transgenic plant.
Claim 26.       The transgenic plant of claim 21, wherein a progeny plant or a plant part
derived therefrom exhibits improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses.
Claim 27.       A seed of the transgenic plant of claim 21, wherein the seed comprises the
expression cassette.
Claim 28.       A seed of the transgenic plant of claim 27 or of a progeny thereof, wherein
the seed exhibits an improved shelf life and reduced postharvest losses.
Claim 29.       A transgenic cell of the transgenic plant of claim 21, wherein the cell
comprises the expression cassette.
Claim 30.       A processed product of the plant of claim 21 or of a progeny thereof,
wherein the processed product exhibits an improved shelf life.
Claim 31.       The processed product of claim 30, further defined as a head of lettuce, an
apple fruit, a potato tuber, or a portion or product thereof.
Claim 32.       A method of down-regulating activity of a PPO 11 gene in a plant, the
method comprising
        a)      introducing into the plant the expression cassette of claim 13; and
        b)      selecting a plant with decreased PPO1 1 activity compared to a plant in
which the expression cassette has not been introduced.
Claim 33.       The method of claim 32, wherein the PPOll gene encodes mRNA
comprising SEQ ID NO:9, and the plant is lettuce.
Claim 34.       The method of claim 32, wherein the selected DNA encodes at least 21
continuous nucleotides of a PPO1 1 mRNA or a complement thereof, effective to down
regulate expression of PPO 11.
Claim 35.       The method of claim 32, wherein the selected DNA is operably linked to
the promoter in the antisense orientation.
Claim 36.       The method of claim 32, wherein the selected DNA is in sense and
antisense orientation.
                                               70

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
Claim 37.        The method of claim 32, wherein introducing the expression cassette
comprises plant breeding.
Claim 38.        The method of claim 32, wherein introducing the expression cassette
comprises genetic transformation.
Claim 39.        The method of claim 32, wherein the polynucleotide is an antisense or
RNAi construct.
Claim 40.        The method of claim 32, wherein the selected DNA encodes a ribozyme or
zinc-finger protein that inhibits the expression of PPO 11.
Claim 41.        The method of claim 32, wherein the plant is a lettuce, potato, apple, or
spinach plant.
Claim 42.        A method for making human food comprising
         a)      obtaining the plant of claim 21,
         b)       growing the plant under plant growth conditions to produce plant tissue
from the plant; and
         c)      preparing food for human or animal consumption from the plant tissue.
Claim 43.        A method for identifying plants having reduced expression or lacking
expression of a PPO1 1 gene or ortholog thereof, comprising:
         a)      obtaining a plurality of plants;
         b)      screening the plurality of plants for expression of a PPO ll gene or
ortholog thereof in which expression is positively correlated with browning or reduced
shelf life of a processed product of the plant;
         c)      selecting one or more screened plants comprising decreased expression of
the PPO ll gene or ortholog thereof relative to expression of the PPO ll gene or ortholog
thereof in a reference plant of the same crop species, a parent plant, or an otherwise
isogenic plant, and which displays browning or reduced shelf life.
Claim 44.        The method of claim 43, wherein the plurality of plants are obtained by
random mutagenesis.
Claim 45.        The method of claim 43, wherein the plurality of plants are transgenic
plants.
Claim 46.        The method of claim 43, wherein the plurality of plants comprise 10, 100,
or 1000 or more plants.
                                                71

WO 2014/047653                                                           PCT/US2013/061475
Claim 47.      The method of claim 43, wherein the plurality of plants are varieties of the
same species of plants.
Claim 48.      The method of claim 43, wherein screening for expression of the PPO
gene comprises determining an abundance of PPO 11 RNA, determining PPO activity, or
determining abundance of a protein or RNA encoded by SEQ ID NO:9.
Claim 49.      The method of claim 43, further comprising crossing the one or more
plants with reduced expression of PPO1 1 to a different plant.
Claim 50.      A method for identifying a polymorphism genetically linked to a PPOl 1
gene or ortholog thereof, comprising:
        a)     obtaining DNA of a population of plants wherein members of the
population vary for expression of PPO 11; and
        b)     identifying at least a first polymorphism in said population that is
associated with a reduced expression of PPO1 1 relative to members of the population that
do not comprise said polymorphism.
Claim 51.      A method of lettuce breeding comprising:
        a)     assaying lettuce plants, or seeds that produce the lettuce plants, for the
presence of at least a first genetic marker genetically linked to a chromosomal region
conferring reduced PPO 11 expression relative to a plant lacking the region, wherein the
region is a low PPOll expression contributing QTL between 185700k and 185800k on
lettuce chromosome 4; and
        b)     selecting at least a first lettuce plant or seed that produces the plant
comprising the genetic marker and the QTL that confers reduced expression of PPO 11;
and
        c)     crossing the first plant with itself or a second plant to produce progeny
plants comprising the QTL that confers reduced expression of PPO.
Claim 52.      A method of identifying a lettuce plant that displays reduced browning or
increased shelf life comprising: detecting in a first lettuce plant at least one allele of a
marker that is associated with reduced browning or increased shelf life, wherein the
marker is genetically linked within 10 cM to a region between 185700k and 185800k on
lettuce chromosome 4.
                                            72

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                        SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110>   Seminis Vegetable Seeds, Inc.
              <120>   METHODS AND COMPOSITIONS FOR EXTENDING SHELF LIFE OF PLANT
                      PRODUCTS
              <130>   SEMB:014WO
              <140>   Unknown
              <141>   2013<U+2701>09<U+2701>24
<removed-apn>
              <150>   61/704,602
              <151>   2012<U+2701>09<U+2701>24
              <160>   32
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   189
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 1
              gataggagaa acgtcttatt aggtctcgga ggtctttacg gcgccgccgc cacttttggg     60
              tcaaactcat tggcgtatgc agctccgatt atggcaccgg acctcacaaa atgtggtccg    120
              gctgacttac cccaaggggc tgtacctaca aactgttgcc ctccatacac cacaaagatt    180
              cacgatttc                                                            189
              <210>   2
              <211>   225
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 2
              gagaaaattt gtggcaaatt aatcgatgat ccaaatttcg caatcccttt ttggaactgg     60
              gatgcacctg atggcatgaa gatccctgat atttacacga ataagaaatc tccgttgtac    120
              gatgctcttc gtgatgcgaa gcatcaacca ccgtctctga ttgatcttga ctacaatggt    180
              gacgatgaaa atcttagccg atcgaaacaa acctccacaa atctc                    225
                                                      Page 1

<removed-date>
              <210>   3
              <211>   225
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 3
<removed-apn>
              ggagatagga accagcaaaa tggtgaagac atgggtaact tttattctgc agccagagac    60
              cctattttct atgcacatca tgcgaatatc gacagaatgt ggtcagtttg gaaaactcta   120
              ggaggaagaa ggaatgattt tacagataaa gactggcttg attcttcgtt cttgttctac   180
              gatgagaacg ctgaaatggt tcgagtcaag gtgagggatt gtctc                   225
              <210>   4
              <211>   226
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 4
              gagagatgag tttgcgaagt ttgatgtgtt tgtgaacgat gaagatgacg ggatgagggc    60
              cacggctgat aagacggagt tcgccggaag ttttgttaat gtccctcata agcataagca   120
              tgggaagaat gtgaagacaa gattgaggtt aggaataagt gagcttttgg aggatttggg   180
              agctgaagat gatgacaacg tgttggtgac attggtgccg aaaaac                  226
              <210>   5
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 5
              atcgtcacca ttgtagtcaa gatca                                          25
              <210>   6
              <211>   25
              <212>   DNA
                                                  Page 2

              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 6
              atatcaggga tcttcatgcc atcag                                          25
              <210>   7
              <211>   25
<removed-apn>
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 7
              aucgucacca uuguagucaa gauca                                          25
              <210>   8
              <211>   25
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 8
              auaucaggga ucuucaugcc aucag                                          25
              <210>   9
              <211>   1922
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Lactuca sativa
              <400> 9
              atggcatctc ttgcacaatc accaaccacc accaccacca ccggtggacg gtgcttctcc    60
              tcctcctcca cgtactcttc ttccttctct ttcaaatcat ctcaagttcc catagcacga   120
              atcacgaacc atcgccatgc agtttcatgc aaaggcgccc tagatgatga tgaccatcac   180
              catgaaaact caggcaaatt tgataggaga aacgtcttat taggtctcgg aggtctttac   240
              ggcgccgccg ccacttttgg gtcaaactca ttggcgtatg cagctccgat tatggcaccg   300
              gacctcacaa aatgtggtcc ggctgactta ccccaagggg ctgtacctac aaactgttgc   360
              cctccataca ccacaaagat tcacgatttc aaacttccac caccgtcaac caccttccga   420
                                                  Page 3

              gtccgtccgg cagctcattt ggctaataaa gattacatag ccaagttcaa taaagccatc    480
<removed-date>
              gagctcatga aagctctccc agatgacgat cctcgtagtt tcaagcaaca agctgctgtt    540
              cattgtgcgt attgcgatgg ggcatacgat caagtcggtt tccctgatct cgagcttcaa    600
              gtccatggct catggttgtt cttacctttc caccgctatt acttatactt cttcgagaaa    660
              atttgtggca aattaatcga tgatccaaat ttcgcaatcc ctttttggaa ctgggatgca    720
              cctgatggca tgaagatccc tgatatttac acgaataaga aatctccgtt gtacgatgct    780
<removed-apn>
              cttcgtgatg cgaagcatca accaccgtct ctgattgatc ttgactacaa tggtgacgat    840
              gaaaatctta gccgatcgaa acaaacctcc acaaatctca caattatgta cagacaaatg    900
              gtgtctagtt ccaagactgc tagtcttttc atgggtagtc cttatcgtgc aggtgatgag    960
              gctagccctg gctctggctc gctcgagagc ataccacatg gcccggttca tatctggacc   1020
              ggagatagga accagcaaaa tggtgaagac atgggtaact tttattctgc agccagagac   1080
              cctattttct atgcacatca tgcgaatatc gacagaatgt ggtcagtttg gaaaactcta   1140
              ggaggaagaa ggaatgattt tacagataaa gactggcttg attcttcgtt cttgttctac   1200
              gatgagaacg ctgaaatggt tcgagtcaag gtgagggatt gtctcgactc caagaagctt   1260
              gggtacgttt atcaggatgt agagatacca tggctaaaaa gcaaacccga accacgtctg   1320
              aaaagggctt tgagcaagat caagaagctc gctgtagctc gagccgatga acacataccc   1380
              tttgcaaaag atgtttttcc ggcgagtctt gataaggtga taaaagtgct ggttccaagg   1440
              ccgaagaaat caaggagcaa gaaacagaaa gaggatgaag aagaaatttt ggtgatagaa   1500
              ggaattgaac tgaagagaga tgagtttgcg aagtttgatg tgtttgtgaa cgatgaagat   1560
              gacgggatga gggccacggc tgataagacg gagttcgccg gaagttttgt taatgtccct   1620
              cataagcata agcatgggaa gaatgtgaag acaagattga ggttaggaat aagtgagctt   1680
              ttggaggatt tgggagctga agatgatgac aacgtgttgg tgacattggt gccgaaaaac   1740
              aaaggtggtg aagtttccat taaagggatt aaaatcgagc atgaggattg ataaaaataa   1800
              cttttcattt tcttgaaaaa taaaaaacta tgattttgag ttgtttcggt aaatatgttg   1860
              tcgcttggtt aatgtatcat caataaaaat aaatttcgaa atcaaagttg gatttgaacc   1920
              cc                                                                  1922
                                                  Page 4

              <210>   10
<removed-date>
              <211>   1001
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 10
              aaaagtaaaa ataagttttt aaagtattcg tatttatatt ttaagaaata ttagtcaaat     60
<removed-apn>
              ataatgaatt tttttttatc caaattcaaa aaaacaaatg atatagtttt tcgtaatatt    120
              attttaatga gtttttaaaa gaaatctttc aaaagtatta ttgttaagga tactcacatt    180
              ttgtttaagt gattataagt ttttattaaa aaataaataa aacgtgaaaa ttttcgttct    240
              ttaaatgaaa aaccttttta atggtttact aaatattata tattatgagc tttttgaaat   300
              ttaataaggt tatttagata caaaatttta ttttaaaaga ttacaagctt tgaaaataaa   360
              aataaatatg atattattca aaatgattca aaatatttat gattaaaaaa attatgatta    420
              aacatattta tgatttttaa ttgtttatga tctaaaaata tcataatcta aatattatga    480
              tccttaatta cataatttat gattcaaaat taaatgtttt tataatgatc taaaatttgt    540
              tattaacaaa aaatttattt aagtgaatat attattatcc aaaattatat gattaaaata    600
              tattataatc taaaatacta caattgattg tttaatgctc caaaattata tcatccaaaa   660
              atagtaaata gtatgatatg aaaacataat gattcctaat atcttatgat tcaaaacgtt   720
              tataaatttt aaacatcaaa acctcaaaca aatatttagt ttaaaaaaac aaaagaaaat   780
              ctaaataata aaacaaaaac aaaaaacaca aataacttca aagatatact aaaatgctat    840
              atgaagtggt atgagtttct tacccgtgtg atgacatgga atgtaagtca tgcgtcagtt    900
              aggaggaaca atcagtggcg gagctagaag ttttcatttg gggcgccgaa aatagaattt    960
              gtataaaaat tgaagaacag aggggccaaa gtcaaacttt a                       1001
              <210>   11
              <211>   1001
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Lactuca sativa
              <400> 11
              aaaaccaaaa ttcacaaaat catttatcac attcgaatac aaaaactacc aacactaaat     60
              atttatattt aatttcaaag tatcgaaaat caaatgacat gttaaaagta tcaaaagtcg   120
                                                  Page 5

<removed-date>
              gtggcttggt aaaagtgtca atgtcttagg taggtgggtt gcttttttgg caaactttcc    180
              gtattttgtt atacatctta tcctttcttg tcttttggcc tcagtttctt tacaataaac    240
              tgcagatatg aaaacaaaag aataaacaaa ttacaaatgt caaacgctat aatattaata    300
              ataaggtaaa ttttttgaag tttgatgctt aaagaggaga aacgttggaa gtaaaacttg    360
              taatacagag aaatgaaagt tgttataaaa atgaaagtat gatgctataa tagaactata    420
<removed-apn>
              tttacaccaa gttcaaagta cgacactgta attagaaaaa ggtaaaaatg tacacaaaat    480
              aaacaaatgg aagtgcatca atcaaatcaa cttgagttct accttatgta cacatatcaa    540
              atgacagttt atggtgccaa tctacagcta attagcaccg gatgcacaag tgactaagaa    600
              aattttggta ttaatggttt taatcctatg tatgttgtaa gaaagattta tatgaaaaca    660
              tattgcattt tttaaaaggt agaaatatgt aacacccgga ttttcaacta ccgattaaat    720
              gacaaataat cgttccaaca tctcccatga tcaattctaa acttacgtat agactacact    780
              acaacggaag caaaattaaa taaaataaaa tcttcaattg aagaacttta ggtgttacat    840
              ctttacggaa ctcctttatc gtcttgttat acaatccctc tccttgcctt cttactgcca    900
              cttgctaaat agtttcctgg gttgcgcaca tataaagttt ctatatgggt aagcctaagg    960
              cctagtgagt tcgtgttgca catacatgtc catcagttaa c                       1001
              <210>   12
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 12
              cgtcgagatt ctgcgagaaa g                                               21
              <210>   13
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400>   13
                                                  Page 6

              gcaaacgtcg tcgatgtaag c                      21
<removed-date>
              <210>   14
              <211>   30
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
<removed-apn>
              <400> 14
              ctcctccgtg ttgttgatcg tgaatacgtc             30
              <210>   15
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 15
              gcaagttcaa taaagccatc ga                     22
              <210>   16
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 16
              cgcaataggc acaatgaaca tt                     22
              <210>   17
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 17
              cccagatgac gatcctcgta gctttaagc              29
              <210>   18
              <211>   23
                                                  Page 7

              <212>   DNA
<removed-date>
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 18
              aaggcttcca gaaacatcaa gaa                    23
              <210>   19
<removed-apn>
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 19
              agactcgccg gaaaaacatc t                      21
              <210>   20
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 20
              catgcccatg aacacatacc ctttgca                27
              <210>   21
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 21
              gcaagatcaa gaagctcgct gta                    23
              <210>   22
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
                                                  Page 8

<removed-date>
              <400> 22
              actcgccgga aaaacatctt t                      21
              <210>   23
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 23
              cgagccgatg aacacatacc ctttgc                 26
              <210>   24
              <211>   23
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 24
              gacgtaccat ggctaaaaag caa                    23
              <210>   25
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 25
              cgatggattt cctcgcaact                        20
              <210>   26
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 26
              ccagtcccac gtgcacccag g                      21
                                                  Page 9

              <210>   27
<removed-date>
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 27
              gctgcaacag acccggtta                          19
<removed-apn>
              <210>   28
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 28
              ctggcgggtc cttctgatt                          19
              <210>   29
              <211>   29
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 29
              ccgaagagga acaacacaaa ggacttccc               29
              <210>   30
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 30
              ttgtcttgaa ttttagcttt gacgtt                  26
              <210>   31
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
                                                  Page 10

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 31
              ccttgaccgg aaaaacaatc a                       21
              <210>   32
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic oligonucleotide
              <400> 32
              tcaatggtgt cggagctttc cacttcc                 27
                                                  Page 11

