ABSTRACT
Title: A MONITORING SYSTEM BASED ON ETCHING OF METALS
Compositions, devices and processes related to etching of a very thin layer or fine particles
of a metal are disclosed for monitoring a variety of parameters, such as time, temperature,
time-temperature, thawing, freezing, microwave, humidity, ionizing radiation, sterilization and
chemicals. These devices have capabilities of producing a long and sharp induction period
of an irreversible visual change. The devices are composed of an indicator comprising a very
thin layer of a metal (e.g., polyester film having an extremely thin, e.g., about one hundred
Angstroms layer of aluminum) and an activator, e.g., a reactant, such as water, water vapor,
an acid, a base, oxidizing agent or their precursors, which is capable of reacting with the
said indicator. The indicator retains its opacity and metallic luster, e.g., silvery white, mirror
like finish of aluminum layer for a long time. The activator destroys the indicator layer
including the naturally formed oxide layer.
13927099

                                                 1
                A MONITORING SYSTEM BASED ON ETCHING OF METALS
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2009256212, the content of which is also incorporated herein by reference in
its entirety.
         Australian Patent Application No. 2009256212 is the Australian National Phase Entry
for PCT application PCT/US2009/046228, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
Applications Nos. 61,081,763; filed June 4, 2008; 61/095,058,             filed June 23, 2008;
61/122,547, filed July 18, 2008; 61/130,928, filed September 8, 2008; 61/132,799, filed
December 15, 2008; 61/162,539, filed March 23, 2009; and 61/XXX,XXX filed May 12,
2009, which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention relates to a system and processes for monitoring time, time
temperature, humidity, defrost, radiation, chemical and biological agents and sterilization
based on etching of a thin layer or fine particles of a metal. The invention also relates to
formation of patterns, printing plates, electronic circuits and RFID devices.
                                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Brief Description of Prior Art
         Perishable products have measurable shelf-lives, which are usually expressed within
specified limits as the time left for available end use. The term "perishable(s)" or "perishable
product(s)" is meant herein to include perishable foods, such as fresh, refrigerated, and
frozen, vegetables, fruits, meats, fish, poultry, dairy products, bakery products, juices, pre
cooked foods, soft and alcoholic beverages, and also including nonfood items having shelf
lives ranging from a few hours to several years including pharmaceuticals, vaccines, sera,
blood, blood plasma, cosmetics, reactive chemical compounds, bio-chemicals, bio-products,
batteries, X-ray film and photographic films which have a measurable shelf life.
Whenever a clock or timer is impractical or too expensive to use, color changing time
indicators or indicating devices in forms of labels, stickers or badges are used. Indicators for
monitoring the passage of a relative amount of time are referred herein to as time indicator
(TI) or time indicating device including but not limited to visual validation of time, safety

sticker, self-timing retail sticker, biological industrial process monitoring, self-expiring
stickers to prevent re-use, employee ID and security ID labels, visitors badges, self-expiring
parking tags, package and shipping labels, wrist bands, time indicating tickets for trains,
buses, sport events, theaters etc, self-expiring passes for tours, emergency rooms, hospitals,
museums, and other locations, event passes, security labels for screened luggage, purses, bags
at airports to show the aircraft control people that the particular items were inspected,
unmanned but video controlled entrances for visitors where the self-expiring visitor label
issued electronically. It also includes limited use items for consumers where once opened or
in use should be used within certain period, including but not limited to drinks, food items,
health, personal and family care products. TI can also be used for monitoring shelf life of
perishables.
        Time-temperature indicator(s) (TTI) devices provide a way of indicating a cumulative
exposure to time and temperature. A TTI device may be capable of indicating whether a
commodity has been exposed to a temperature greater than a predetermined temperature for a
period of time or to an integral value of time and temperature. For example, a TTI device
might indicate exposure to an excessive temperature for an excessive period of time or both.
A large number of time-temperature indicating devices and time indicating devices for
monitoring thermal degradation of perishables and self-expiring labels, tickets and badges
have been reported in patent literature. Many of these devices are based on diffusion of a
chemical from one matrix to the other, sometimes through a permeable layer, to introduce a
color change in the indicator layer. The other TTIs are based on chemical reactions, such as
the solid state polymerization of diacetylenes, change in pH and change in photochromism
and thermochromism.
        A large number of devices have been reported in the patent literature for monitoring
time and integral value of time and temperature.
        Patel, in U.S. Patent No. 5,053,339 discloses a color changing device for monitoring
the time-temperature storage history, i.e. shelf life of perishable products. The device is
composed of (1) an activator tape, containing an activator composition and matrix on a
substrate, (2) an indicator tape, containing an indicating composition, matrix and (3) an
optional permeable layer. The permeable layer is often referred to as a barrier layer in the
prior art. The device is activated by applying the activator tape over the indicator tape. This
and similar devices in general are often referred herein to as two-tape devices, two-tape TTI
and TI. The term "binder", "medium", "ink", "paint", "vehicle", "coating' and "matrix" are
also used interchangeably herein. Based on this technology, Bowater PLC, London, UK was
                                                2

the first to introduce two-tape TTI/TI products, one in the form of stickers and the other in the
form of foldable bands during 1991 and 1993 (ReacTT TM Brochure of Bower PLC, London,
UK, 1992) in the market.
         Haas and his co-inventors in a series of U.S. Patent Nos. 4,903,254; 5,053,339;
5,446,705; 5,602,804; 5,633,835; 5,699,326; 5,715,215; 5,719,828; 5,785,354; 5,822,280;
5,862,101; 5,873,606; 5,930,206; 6,446,865, 6,452,873; 6,752,430; 7,139,226; and 7,263,037
have disclosed time monitoring devices and related processes. All these patents are hereby
incorporated by reference into the specification of this application. These devices are also
based on diffusion of an activator (which also includes a dye) through a medium. The
indicator has a matrix, e.g., an ink which has a binder.
         The following patents are some other representative examples of TI and TTI devices:
U.S.    Pat. Nos.:    2,896,568;   3,018,611;  3,046,786;   3,078,182;   3,311,084;   3,520,124;
3,921,318; 3,954,011; 3,962,920; 3,999,946; 4,154,107; 4,195,058; 4,212,153; 4,382,063;
4,404,922; 4,432,630; 4,432,656; 4,448,548; 4,480,749; 4,542,982; 4,573,711; 4,629,330;
4,643,122; 4,643,588; 4,646,066; 4,737,463; 4,779,120; 4,812,053; 4,846,095; 4,846,502;
4,917,503; 5,053,339; 5,058,088; 5,120,137; 5,293,648; 5,317,980; 5,364,132; 5,378,430;
5,446,705; 5,602,804; 5,633,836; 5,667,303; 5,699,326; 5,709,472; 5,715,215; 5,719,828;
5,785,354; 5,822,280; 5,862,101; 5,873,606; 5,930,206; 5,957,458; 5,974,003; 5,997,927;
6,042,264; 6,103,351; 6,214,623; 6,254,969; 6,514,462; 6,524,000; 6,536,370; 6,614,728;
6,752,430; 6,822,931; 6,916,116; 7,156,597; 7,157,048; 7,209,042; 7,280,441; 7,290,925 and
7,294,379. All these patents are hereby incorporated by reference into the specification of this
patent application.
         None of these and any other two-tape indicating devices reported in the literature are
based a metal as an indicator and etching of a metal.
         Pre-cooked, ready-to-eat frozen foods are widely used today. The pre-cooked frozen
food is heated either in a conventional oven (for example, heated with natural gas or
electricity) or more conveniently in a microwave oven. A microwave oven does not heat the
food uniformly. Some portions of food may not be done while the other portions may be over
heated. Hence, there is a need for an indicating device that changes color when steam is
emitted by the food.
         Microwave interactive materials generally provide, for example, enhanced surface
heating, microwave shielding, enhanced microwave transmission, and energy distribution
functions in packaging. Susceptors are employed in the preparation of food products in
microwave ovens to convert some of the microwave energy to heat in order to assist in
                                                3

cooking the food by conduction, convection and/or radiant heating as well as microwave
radiation. Numerous microwave energy susceptors are described in the prior art. Exemplary
susceptors are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,501,059; 5,530,231; 5,220,143; 5,038,009;
4,914,266; 4,908,246; 4,883,936; 4,641,005 and 4,267,420 the disclosures of which are
incorporated herein by reference. A number of approaches have also emerged on patterning
of conventional metal microwave-absorbing layers by selective demetallization to control the
amount of heating in predetermined regions of the susceptor. A number of techniques have
been utilized to provide the desired patterning. Exemplary techniques are described in U.S.
Pat. Nos. 5,614,259; 5,300,746; 5,254,821; 5,185,506; 4,959,120; 4,927,991; 4,685,997;
4,610,755 and 4,552,614, the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
         There is no report on use of microwave energy susceptors as an aid for microwave
doneness indicating devices.
         There are a variety of defrost indicating devices reported in the literature, including
those in the following patents: US Patent Nos. 3,233,459; 3,702,077; 3,786,777; 4,038,936;
4,114,443; 4,120,818; 4,144,834; 4,163,427; 4,280,361; 4,735,745; 4,892,677; 5,267,794;
5,685,641 and 5,695,284. This type of indicating devices undergo a color change when the
product temperature undesirably exceeded about 00 C. These devices have not proven entirely
satisfactory due either to deficiencies in their visual perceptual character or in the danger of
their use, in their sensitivity to thawing conditions or in their complexity of manufacture or
use. The shortcomings of such devices are that they often fail in practice.
         The quality of certain frozen perishables, such as ice creams, frozen foods, blood
products and certain pharmaceuticals deteriorate rapidly if they are brought above the
freezing temperature (usually zero degree centigrade). Hence, there is a strong need for
defrost or thaw indicating devices. A number of thaw indicating devices have been reported
in the literature. None of the thaw indicating device has been successful in the market mainly
because they change color too rapidly. When one goes grocery shopping, one picks up a
frozen food package, places it in the cart, checks out, places it in the car/trunk and goes home
to put it in a freezer. The perishable does not lose its quality during this normal handling or
just because the surface of the container or a small portion of the food inside was above the
freezing temperature for a short while. Hence, there is a need for thaw indicating devices with
a delayed effect for the color change. For monitoring frozen state and shelf life or quality of
frozen perishable, one needs "thaw-time-temperature (TTT) indicating devices". There is a
need for indicating devices for monitoring thawing as well as effect of integral value of time
and temperature above the freezing temperature.
                                                 4

         Many products of commerce are temperature sensitive and may spoil, deteriorate or
lose quality if they suffer even a brief exposure to a temperature near or below freezing.
Some flowers, salad greens, vegetables and herbs, wilt, shrink and become dark colored,
useless and/or unappealing when exposed to freezing or near-freezing temperatures. Such
changes are well known and are largely caused by ice crystals destroying the integrity of the
botanical cells. Other freeze sensitive products include pharmaceuticals, sera, vaccines, fresh
produce, flowers, latexes, paints, emulsions, such as milk, fruit juices, and yogurt. Hence,
there is a need for a freeze indicating device.
         US Patent no. 3,934,069 discloses a method of encapsulation of solution of a salt/dye
and an organic carboxylic acid in an organic water-immiscible solvent. US Patent no.
3,888,631 discloses a temperature indicating device for monitoring deep frozen products,
comprising paper-like fibrous material containing a binder and two water soluble colorless
reagents. US Patent no. 4,163,427 discloses a freeze-thaw indicating device apparatus
comprising a plurality of frangible microcapsules. US Patent no. 5,910,314 discloses a
process for the preparation of a microcapsule composition.
         However, there is no report on a freeze indicating device based on release of an
activator/etchant upon freezing and etching of a thin metal layer or fine particles of a metal.
         A wide variety of medical supplies and other items are sterilized with materials and
techniques, such as steam, dry heat, ethylene oxide, plasma, peracetic acid, formaldehyde and
high-energy radiation. Kitchenware, such as dishes, cutlery, and utensils used at home and
restaurants are also sterilized in dishwashers with hot water and hot air usually around 90 0 C.
It is essential to assure that these items are sterilized or meet required specifications. A
number of sterilization indicating devices, dosimeters and monitors are proposed in the
literature. They include biological and chemical indicating devices. The color changing
chemical indicating devices are inexpensive and are widely used.
         A wide variety of foods especially canned foods, pharmaceuticals, hospital and
medical supplies are sterilized. These and other products, such as linens are sterilized to kill
living organisms to an acceptable level. Direct testing for sterility is destructive and
expensive and hence indirect testing methods, such as color changing indicating devices are
used.
         Pressurized steam is used in hospitals to sterilize reusable medical equipment and
supplies, such as gowns and linens. To differentiate between a tray containing sterilized
goods and one containing non-sterile goods, which may not have been processed, an
indicating device is used. The process of sterilization causes the device to change color. Often
                                                5

the original color is light, and the color after processing is dark. The change in color is caused
by a chemical reaction in the ink. The indicating device may be in the form of a strip, card, or
tape. By observation of the color of the sterilization indicating device, one can determine
whether or not the package has been passed through the sterilization cycle.
         There are international standards, such as the International Organization              for
Standardization (ISO) and the European Standards (EN) that deal with sterilization testing
including steam sterilization. International standards for the air removal tests for pre-vacuum
steam sterilizers comprise a chemical indicating device in a test pack are found in the ISO
and EN series. These packs incorporate the Bowie-Dick test and have similar performance
standards as seen in AAMI (American Association of Medical Instrumentation), but use
different testing procedures.
        Many steam sterilization indicating devices are reported in the literature and some of
them are used for monitoring sterilization. A few of them use heavy and toxic metal
compounds, such as those of lead or bismuth. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,523,011 describes
an indicating device material consisting of calcium sulfide and lead carbonate. A number of
patents are issued based on color changing sterilization indicating devices (e.g., those for
steam, dry heat, ethylene oxide, plasma, peracetic acid, formaldehyde and high-energy
radiation) using inorganic and organic compounds, including a variety of dyes and pigments.
They include the following U.S. Patents:
        2,798,885;       2,826,073;      3,098,751;     3,098,751;     3,098,751;      3,098,751;
        3,360,337;       3,360,338;      3,360,339;     3,386,807;     3,471,422;      3,568,627;
        3,852,034;       3,862,824;      3,932,134;     3,981,683;     4,094,642;      4,121,714;
        4,138,216;       4,138,216;      4,138,216;     4,195,055;     4,407,960;      4,410,493;
        4,436,819;       4,436,819;      4,436,819;     4,486,387;     4,514,361;      4,514,361;
        4,576,795;       4,579,715;      4,596,696;     4,692,307;     4,678,640;      5,064,576;
        5,087,659;       5,087,659;      5,158,363;     5,200,147;     5,223,401;      5,252,484;
        5,258,065;       5,451,372;      5,451,372;     5,788,925;     5,801,010;      5,866,356;
        5,916,816;       5,990,199;      6,063,631;     6,485,978;     6,589,479;      6,659,036;
        6,800,124;       6,884,394;      6,884,394;     7,141,214      and      7,189,355.
        All these patents are hereby incorporated by reference into the specification of this
patent application.
        The prior art discloses use of polyvalent compounds of metals but none of them
disclose use of a zero valent metal or an alloy (i.e., a metal as an indicator).
                                                  6

         Despite the widespread use and low cost of such indicating devices, there are several
disadvantages associated with them. Firstly, the ink has a tendency to transfer to and stain
articles with which it comes into contact in the autoclave. Secondly, the sensitivity of the ink
diminishes with time, especially when stored in humid conditions, such that the initial and
final colors may be compromised. There are numerous other color changing systems capable
of detecting steam sterilization, containing metal salts, organic acids, oxidizing agents or
other compounds. Many of these are still toxic, have limited color changes and/or are
expensive. There is a need for sterilization indicating devices which do not have these
drawbacks.
         Patel, in PCT application number # WO 01/10471 Al, has disclosed ink formulations
and devices for monitoring sterilization with ethylene oxide. The device is made by coating a
mixture of (a) a polymeric binder, (b) an ethylene oxide reactive salt, such as sodium
thiocyanate and tetraethylammonium bromide and (c) a pH sensitive dye, such as
bromothymol blue and bromocresol purple. When contacted with ethylene oxide, the device
undergoes at least one color change due to production of a base, such as sodium hydroxide.
However, these devices and formulations are color changing.
         Patel, in PCT application # WO 00/61200, has disclosed formulations and devices for
monitoring sterilization with plasma. The devices are made by coating a mixture of at least
one (a) polymeric binder, (b) plasma activator and (c) plasma indicator. The devices undergo
a color change when treated with plasma, especially that of hydrogen peroxide. For example,
a coating of phenol red and tetraethylammonium bromide in a binder, such as a polyacrylate
undergoes a color change from yellow-to-blue when exposed to hydrogen peroxide and its
plasma due to halogenation of the dye. However, these devices and formulations are color
changing.
         Micro-encapsulation is a process in which tiny particles or liquid droplets are
surrounded by a layer or coating to give small capsules. Microcapsules herein include many
other similar systems, such as micelles, emulsion, dispersion, liposomes and similar phase
separated systems. The material inside the microcapsule is referred to as the core, internal
phase, or fill, whereas the wall is sometimes called a shell, coating, or membrane. Most
microcapsules have diameters between a fraction of micrometer and a few millimeters.
Processes of microencapsulation are well known and disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 2,730,456;
2,800,457; 2,986,477; 3,516,941; 4,001,140; 4,081,376; 4,089,802; 4,100,103; 4,105,823;
4,197,346;4,428,982; 4,444,699; 4,547,429; 4,552,811; 4,622,267; 6,084,010 and 6,592,990.
                                               7

        In thermally responsive printing systems, such as direct thermal printing, basic
chromogenic material, acidic color developer material and a sensitizer are contained in a
coating on a substrate which, when heated to a suitable temperature, melts or softens to
permit said materials to react, thereby producing a colored mark. These solid materials are
incorporated into a coating along with pigments, binders, and additives. This coating is then
applied to the surface of paper or other support system, such as a plastic film using various
types of coating application systems and dried. Images are formed on the coated surface by
application of heat to melt and interact the three color producing materials.
        The materials and process for thermal printing are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos.
3,539,375; 3,674,535; 3,746,675; 4,151,748; 4,181,771; 4,246,318; 4,370,370; 4,388,362;
4,424,245; 4,444,819; 4,470,057; 4,507,669; 4,551,738; 4,682,194; 4,722,921; 4,742,043;
4,783,439 and 4,942,150
        The development of thermal print heads (linear arrays of individually-addressable
resistors) has led to the development of a wide variety of thermally-sensitive media. Heat is
used to convert a colorless coating on a single sheet into a colored image, in a process known
as "direct thermal" imaging. Direct thermal imaging systems use several different chemical
mechanisms to produce a change in color. Some employ compounds that are intrinsically
unstable and which decompose to form a visible color when heated. Such color changes may
involve a unimolecular chemical reaction. Thermal paper also contains thermal reactive dyes,
such as azo or leuco dyes used with a developer. Leuco dyes are colorless or light colored
basic substances which become colored when oxidized by acidic substances (developers).
The dye and developer are preferably solid at ambient temperature and have a melting point
below the operating temperature of a thermal print head of a thermal imaging apparatus. The
materials and processes for thermal printing are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,488,705;
3,539,375; 3,745,009; 3,832,212; 4,243,052; 4,380,629; 4,401,717; 4,415,633. 4,602,263;
4,720,449; 5,350,870 and 4,636,819
        A waveguide is a structure which guides waves, such as that of light through a
dielectric medium usually an optical fiber. A number of monitoring devices based on optical
wave guide have been reported in the literature. It is known that it is possible to alter the
transmission properties of an optical waveguide by causing certain chemical reactions to
occur in the cladding layer, a layer over the optical fiber. Metallized optical fibers are also
reported. However, there is no report on monitoring devices based on etching of metallized
optical fiber.
                                                 8

        The electronic industry needs enhanced performance from products, such as wiring
boards at a lower cost. Printed wiring board circuitry can reside on a rigid fiberglass
reinforced plastic or on flexible films to which are adhered a metal layer used to form
conductive circuit connections. The boards can contain interconnecting circuitry on one layer,
two layers, or multiple layers. Boards with three or more layers can be manufactured using
multiple two layer boards laminated together forming a multi-layer construction, or can be
built up from a two layer board by sequentially adding dielectric layers and circuits.
        Electronic article surveillance (EAS) is a technological method for preventing
shoplifting from retail stores or unauthorized removal of books from libraries. Special tags
are fixed to merchandise or books. These tags are removed or deactivated by the clerks when
the items are properly bought or checked out. At the exits of the store, a detection system
sounds an alarm or otherwise alerts the staff when it senses active tags. Radio frequency EAS
tags are essentially an LC tank circuit that has a resonance peak anywhere from 1.75 MHz to
9.5 MHz. An LC circuit is a variety of resonant circuit or tuned circuit and consists of an
inductor and a capacitor. When connected together, an electric current can alternate between
them at the circuit's resonant frequency. Deactivation of the tag is achieved by detuning the
circuit by partially destroying the capacitor. This is done by submitting the tag to a strong
electromagnetic field at the resonant frequency which will induce voltages exceeding the
capacitor's breakdown voltage, which is artificially reduced by puncturing the tag.
        The permanent EAS tags are made of a non-linear element (a diode) coupled to one
microwave and one electrostatic antenna. At the exit, one antenna emits a low-frequency
(about 100 kHz) field, and another one emits a microwave field. The tag acts as a mixer re
emitting a combination of signals from both fields. This modulated signal triggers the alarm.
These tags are permanent and somewhat costly. They are mostly used in clothing stores.
        Metallized polymer sheeting is now commonly employed as a substitute for
decorative chrome parts, especially in the automotive industry. Typically, such metallized
polymer sheeting includes a layer of metal disposed between two polymer sheets.
        Typically metallized polymer sheeting is created by etching the metal layer with a
base, e.g., sodium hydroxide or an acid, e.g., nitric acid solution. These are multistep,
somewhat hazardous and polluting processes. Therefore, a need exists for a metallized
composite made by least hazardous and simple means.
        Thin metal foils (e.g., between 10 to 1,000 microns) are widely used for a variety of
applications. Metal foils are used and/or have been suggested as a substrate for many of the
above described devices. When a metal foil is used as a substrate it is thick, usually more
                                                9

than 10 micron thick. Etching, including selective etching of metals with a liquid etchant is
well known and is widely used in industry for creating many products. Etching is typically
done by dipping a metal part in an etchant, such as an acid or a base solution. Etching and
dissolution, as defined herein. also includes reactions such as corrosion, rusting, oxidation
and/or conversion to other compounds of metals, semimetals, semiconductors and alloys.
         Metallized plastics and plastic films are also widely used for a large number of
applications including both functional and decorative purposes as they have conductive and
reflective surfaces. Metallized plastic films are also used as substrates for many devices
including those described herein. Fine particles (e.g., from nano sized or larger) of metals,
such as that of aluminum and bronzes (alloys of copper, tin, aluminum and zinc) are widely
used to make silver, gold and other color inks and paints (including conductive inks, paints
and paste). However, there is no report on creation of indicating devices, such as indicators
for monitoring time, time-temperature, sterilization, humidity, microwave doneness, defrost
and other devices, such as patterning, EAS, electronic devices, printed electronics, printed
electrodes and imaging based on etching of a very thin layer of metals or fine particles of
metals with an etchant/activator.
         A variety of indicating devices based on use of metal compounds are reported but
there is no report on use of a very thin layer of a metal or fine particles of a metal as
indicators described herein. Similarly, metallized plastic films are proposed (e.g., US patent
No. 7,430,982) as substrates for indicators but not as indicators.
         Etching of metals, e.g., with acids and bases is well known. Indicators for monitoring
end of etching also have been proposed (e.g., US Patent # 7,361,286). However, there is no
report on use of the indicating devices based on etching of metals.
         Dissolution/destruction/reaction of fine powder of metals, such as aluminum, copper,
zinc and their alloys with water, acids, oxidizing agents and bases is well known. Matter of
fact fine power of aluminum and its alloys are recommended to generate hydrogen as a fuel
by reacting with water. Etching/dissolution of metals including aluminum is well known and
practiced widely in industry. However, there is no report on use of metals, either as a fine
powder or coated on a substrate, as indicating devices, such as time, time-temperature and
sterilization indicating devices and devices, such as RFID and electronic article surveillance
(EAS).
         Fine powder of many metals, e.g., that of aluminum, is considered flammable. The
dust can form explosive mixture with air, especially when damp. The dry powder is stable. It
is known that bulk aluminum powder or dust in contact with water may heat spontaneously.
                                                10

Moist, finely divided aluminum powder may ignite in air, with formation of flammable
hydrogen gas. The hazard increases as the aluminum particle size decreases. Damp bulk dust
may heat spontaneously and form flammable hydrogen gas. Aluminum powders are used in
paints, pigments, protective coatings, printing inks, rocket fuel, explosives, abrasives and
ceramics; production of inorganic and organic aluminum chemicals and as catalysts.
        However, there is no report on use of an ultra thin layer (e.g., 100 Angstroms) of
flammable metals, such as aluminum, zinc and their alloys as humidity or steam sterilization
indicating devices.
        None of the indicating devices reported in the literature are based on etching or
destruction of the indicator layer which is ultra thin/small, opaque and in form of coating
stickers or labels. There is a need for indicating devices where the indicator layer is
completely destroyed and hence cannot be tampered, reversed or re-used. There is also a need
for indicating devices in form sealing tape which can be used for sealing boxes, e.g., that of
perishables. Some of the above devices, such as those based on polymerization of
diacetylenes (marketed by Temptime Corporation, Morris Plains, NJ) require protection
against UV/sunlight. There is also a need for highly environmentally stable indicating devices
so they don't provide false signals. The two-tape indicating devices reported in the prior art
provide very little induction period unless a permeable/barrier layer is used. Even with the
use of a permeable layer, the induction period is short and not sharp. Hence, there is a need
for indicating devices having a long and sharp induction period so a better "go - no go" type
devices can be developed. There are also needs for many desired and required features, such
as   making    indicating   devices   tamper    resistant,  tamper   evident,  a   variety  of
expiration/doneness colors, messages for self-reading, and images by simple and easy means.
The term "expiration" or "doneness" used herein is for indicators, colors, messages and
images, layers and/or alike and processes associated with them which appear or indicate
expiration or doneness of indicating devices.
        Most of the time, consumers want to know whether a product is good, bad,
acceptable, not acceptable, valid, not valid etc. Some people don't know or understand
partially good and the remaining bad. As far as consumer acceptability is concerned, it is
acceptable or not acceptable, there is little in-between. They prefer self reading indicating
devices rather than color changing devices which are subject to interpretation. Consumers
generally want to know whether the food is good or not good, fresh or not fresh, usable or not
usable   etc. Doctors,    pharmacists   and   hospitals   generally want   to know     whether
pharmaceuticals are potent or not potent, effective or not effective, usable or not usable etc
                                               11

and the medical supplies are sterilized or not sterilized. Security personnel generally want to
know whether the visitor/employee is valid or not valid and should be allowed or not
allowed. Hence, there is a need for go/no-go types of self reading indicating devices rather
than confusing gradually color changing type with color reference charts.
         The term metallic is used for a material which is a metal, metal like or having one or
more properties of a metal that can be used as an indicator for one or more devices of the
system of the present inventions. Such materials and properties include one or more of the
followings: which can be etched or destroyed with an activator, which can react with water,
oxygen, acids, bases and salts, where the activator reacts with the said material on its surface
(top-to-bottom, if flat or outside-to-inside/center, if it is in a particle form) i.e., undergoes a
heterogeneous reaction, whose reaction with activators has a definite end, which is non
porous/impermeable to almost all chemicals, which has no (or does not need a) binder or can
be coated on a substrate without a binder, which is self binding, which has an ability to bond
with a substrate without a need for a binder, which is significantly opaque, which is
reflective, which is opaque and reflective, which is electrical conductive or semi-conductive,
which has extremely high optical density to thickness ratio (e.g., optical density of ~1 at
thickness of ~100 Angstroms), undergoes a change in opacity by it dissolution, undergoes a
change     in  opacity from     substantially opaque     to   completely    transparent   or semi
transparent/translucent if the thickness less than 1,000 Angstroms, an abrupt change in optical
density at the end of the reaction, whose atoms are bonded by metallic bonds, has a naturally
formed oxide layer or has an ability to form an oxide layer and/or where a change in opacity
has an induction period. The term "metallized" is used for a substrate having a metallic
coating. The terms, "metal", "metal like", "metallic" and having properties of metal are used
interchangeably herein for indicator materials of the devices.
         The term "metallic" may also include many semimetals and some semi-conductive
materials which are self binding, opaque, undergo heterogeneous reaction with an activator.
         The two most desired properties of the metallic indicator (an indicator of the current
invention) for the system are opaqueness and non-diffusive/heterogeneous reaction with an
activator or an agent for the devices based on visual change. Metal, semi-metals and often
some semi-conductors have these two properties.
         Indicating devices of the present inventions, such as that for time (TI), time
temperature (TTI), thaw, freeze, humidity, ionizing radiation, temperature, microwave,
sterilization (SI) (including that with steam, ethylene oxide, plasma, formaldehyde, dry heat,
hydrogen peroxide       and peracetic acid),     chemicals, biological      and chemical agents,
                                                 12

microwave and all other devices (e.g., printed circuit board, RFID and EAS), including those
defined above and herein, individually or collectively are often referred herein to as
indicating device(s) or simply as a device or system. An indicating device or indicating
system also includes other formulations, devices and processes disclosed herein. We have
also used the word integrator, integrating device, sensor, detector and monitor and monitoring
devices interchangeably with indicating device and indicating system.
        The term indicator is also used for any indicia including dyes, pigments, barcodes,
images, messages and alike.
        The term "color change" used herein includes change in optical density including
change    in  fluorescence,   translucency,  opacity and transparency       and under certain
circumstances conductivity.
        The terms, "chemical(s)", "chemical agent(s)", "biological agent(s)", "chemical and
biological agent(s)", and simply "agent(s)" are used interchangeably herein for materials like
water/steam, acids, bases which either react directly (i.e., activators) with metallic indicator
or like biochemicals or chemicals such as ethylene oxide and hydrogen peroxide which when
react with a precursor for an activator produce an activator which then reacts with a metallic
indicator. The metallic indicating devices are also used for monitoring these agents and/or
processes, such as sterilization. An agent, such as water/steam, an acid or a base can also be
an activator and vice versa.
        The information provided in this section of "Background of the invention" is hereby
incorporated by reference into the specification of the present invention.
        Each patent described and cited above is incorporated herein in specification of this
application by reference to the extent each provides guidance regarding formulations,
materials, processes and devices that can be used to make formulations, materials, processes
and devices disclosed herein.
        BRIEF DESCRIPTION AND OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION
        The main objective of this invention is to provide a system of indicating and non
indicating devices for monitoring materials and processes such as time, temperature, time
temperature, thaw, freeze, humidity, ionizing radiation, microwave, sterilization (including
steam, ethylene oxide, plasma, formaldehyde, dry heat, hydrogen peroxide and peracetic
acid), chemicals, biological and chemical agents, and electronic devices, such as RFID, EAS,
printed electronics, printed electrodes and alike based on significant etching of a thin layer
                                               13

and/or fine particles of metallic materials such as a metal, semimetal, semiconductor or an
alloy.
        Another main objective of this invention/system is to provide devices based on
significant change in opacity of a layer or destruction of a substantially non-permeable layer.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide electronic devices or support
for electronic devices, such as printed circuit boards, antenna, RFID, printed electronics,
printed electrodes and EAS by etching a thin layer or fine particles of a metallic material and
a patterned layer.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide said devices for quantitative
measurements of materials including chemicals and chemical or biological agents based on
etching of metal or metallized optical wave guide
        Another main objective of the invention is to provide an indicating formulation, such
as inks and paints comprising particles of a metallic material as an indicator and an activator
which reacts with the metallic material.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide said indicating devices
composed of an activator tape and an indicator tape.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide said indicating devices
composed of a layer of a metallic material as an indicator.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide said indicating devices
composed of a layer of aluminum, copper, zinc, tin or their alloys as an indicator.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide said indicating devices in form
of a tape.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide said indicating devices in form
of a tape for sealing boxes to indicate status or quality of the products inside them.
        Another main objective of this invention is to apply the said tape and seal a box
containing items to be processed or monitored.
         Another main objective of this invention is to provide a process for monitoring the
said indicating sealing or packing tape or label.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide a device having a substrate, a
substantially thin metallic layer such as that of a metal, a layer of activator over the metal
layer which substantially changes the nature of the metallic layer.
        Another main objective of this invention is to provide a device having a substrate
having thereon a layer composed of fine particles of a metal and a material such as an
activator which substantially changes the nature of the metal particles.
                                                 14

        Another main objective of this invention is to provide self expiring indicating devices
having a metal as an indicator for intelligent packaging and supply chain management.
    Yet other main objectives of this invention/system are to provide a device including said
indicating devices:
    *   having a long and relatively sharp induction period.
    *   having a thin and highly opaque indicator layer.
    *   having a light reflective indicator layer.
    *   having a indicator layer which gets destroyed
    *   having an indicator layer which is electrically conductive.
    *   composed of an indicator layer which has no matrix.
    *   composed of an indicator layer which has no matrix and is very thin and/or highly
        opaque.
    *   composed of an indicator layer which is a metallic.
    *   composed of an indicator layer which is a metal or its alloy.
    *   composed of an indicator layer which is a semimetal or semiconductor.
    *   composed of an indicator layer made from aluminum, copper, zinc, tin or their alloys.
    *   having a substantially opaque indicator layer which becomes substantially transparent
        when contacted with an activator.
    *   having a substantially opaque indicator layer which becomes substantially transparent
        when contacted with an activator which is an acid, base or salt.
    *   having a layer of activator or precursor for activator.
    *   having a layer of activator or precursor for activator which is substantially
        transparent.
    *   having an activator layer for introducing a noticeable change in the indicator layer.
    *   having an activator which is a food or food additive.
    *   having an activator which makes the indicator either non-conductive, non-reflective,
        transparent or vice versa.
    *   having an indicator layer which has an uneven or embossed surface.
    *   having an opaque indicator layer which becomes substantially transparent when
        contacted with an activator which is a food additive.
    *   having a thin indicator layer composed of aluminum which becomes substantially
        transparent when contacted with an activator or precursor for an activator which is
        phosphoric acid, phosphorous acid, phosphorous pentoxide, sodium acetate, sodium
                                                 15

  thiocyanate, tetraethylammonium bromide, sodium bromide, sodium carbonate,
  sodium nitrate, ammonium bromide or sodium bicarbonate.
* having an indicator tape composed of a substrate having a thin and highly opaque
  indicator layer on one surface and a message or message providing layer on either
  surface of the substrate.
* having an indicator tape composed of a substrate having a thin and highly opaque
  indicator layer on one surface, having a message or message providing layer on the
  exposed surface of the said metal and a message or message providing layer on either
  surface of the substrate.
* having an indicator tape composed of a substrate having thin and highly opaque
  indicator layers on both the surfaces of the substrate.
* having an indicator tape composed of a substrate having a thin and highly opaque
  indicator layer on one surface and a message indicating layer on either surface of the
  substrate, wherein the said message indicating layer is composed of different colors,
  messages and/or images.
* having an activator tape composed of a substrate having an activator layer on one
  surface and a message indicating layer on the other surface.
* having an activator tape composed of a substrate having an activator layer on one
  surface and an message indicating layer on the other surface, wherein the said
  message indicating layer is composed of different colors, messages and/or images.
* having a layer permeable or barrier to activator.
* having a permeable or barrier layer on the indicator layer.
* having a permeable or barrier layer on the activator layer.
* having a permeable or barrier layer between the activator and indicator layers.
* having a permeable or barrier layer and a message indicating layer.
* having a permeable or barrier layer and a message indicating layer which is composed
  of different colors, messages and/or images.
* having a permeable or barrier layer which protects the indicator.
* having a permeable or barrier layer which is naturally formed.
* having a permeable or barrier layer which is an oxide and/or hydroxide.
* having a permeable or barrier layer made by treating the metal surface with a reactant.
* having the said permeable or barrier layer which is either continuous or
  discontinuous.
                                         16

* having permeable or barrier layers which are naturally formed and made by treating
  the metal surface with a reactant or by coating.
* having a barrier layer which destructible.
* having a barrier layer which destructible by an activator or an agent.
* having an indicating tape device composed of a substrate having a thin and highly
  opaque indicator layer additionally having a permeable or barrier layer on one surface
  and a message indicating layer on the other surface.
* having a barrier or permeable layer which reacts with an activator.
* having a barrier or permeable layer which can be destroyed or dissolved by an
  activator.
* having a barrier or permeable layer which is substantially transparent.
* having a permeable or barrier layer which is polymeric.
* composed of activator and indicator tapes wherein the said indicator tape is composed
  of a thin and highly opaque indicator layer and a permeable or barrier layer between
  the tapes.
* having at least one tamper indicator and/or tamper indicator layer.
* having a layer which is an indicator and tamper indicating.
* composed of activator and indicator tapes wherein the said indicator tape is composed
  of a thin and highly opaque indicator layer and the said activator tape is composed of
  an activator and also has a tamper indicator layer.
* composed of activator and indicator tapes wherein the said indicator tape is composed
  of a thin and highly opaque indicator layer and a permeable or barrier layer and also
  has a tamper indicator layer.
* having at least one bonding layer to bond the layers of the said devices.
* wherein the said bonding layer is pressure sensitive adhesive.
* wherein the said bonding layer is not a pressure sensitive adhesive.
* having at least one binder for indicator or activator.
* having at least one release layer.
* having an activation indicator.
* having an activation indicator layer.
* composed of activator and indicator tapes wherein the said indicator tape is composed
  of a thin and highly opaque indicator layer and a permeable layer and also has an
  activation layer which indicates the activation of the device.
                                          17

* having a wedged shaped permeable layer.
* having a wedge shaped indicator layer.
* having a wedge shaped activator layer.
* having a wedge shaped precursor layer.
* having a wedged shaped permeable layer on the indicator layer.
* having a wedged shaped permeable layer on the activator layer.
* having a wedged shaped permeable layer between the indicator and activator layers.
* having multiple of wedge shaped layers.
* composed of activator and indicator tapes wherein the said indicator tape is composed
  of a thin and highly opaque indicator layer and a wedge shaped permeable layer
  between the tapes.
* composed of activator and indicator tapes wherein the said indicator tape is composed
  of a thin and highly opaque indicator layer and a wedge shaped permeable layer
  between the tapes and a message indicating layer which may be composed of different
  colors, messages and/or images.
* having a message layer
* having a top message layer.
* having a bottom message layer.
* having a message layer in-between any two layers of the said device.
* having a top and bottom message indicating layers.
* having a top and bottom message indicating layers which provide different messages.
* having a top and bottom message indicating layers which provide one new message.
* having a mask or barrier layer.
* having a mask or barrier layer in form of a message.
* having a mask or barrier layer on the indicator layer.
* in form of a band.
* in form of a band made from the compositions, layers and tapes and having features
  mentioned herein.
* one of the layer is in form a image, pattern, barcode or message.
* comprising: one coded indicia for identifying an object or container; a second coded
  indicia for identifying a condition, quality and alike of its content; with either one of
  them printed on either surface of indicator, activator, permeable or barrier layer or a
  substrate and means for changing the appearance of the indicia.
                                          18

        Yet another objective of this invention is to provide an activator formulation
comprising a binder and an activator for the said metallic indicator.
        Yet another objective of this invention is to provide an activator formulation
comprising a binder, an activator or precursor for the said metallic indicator and a solvent.
        Yet another objective of this invention is to provide a method of applying the said
activator formulation of the said metallic layer.
        Yet other main objectives of this invention are to provide the said devices having one
or more of the above features.
        Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an indicating device which
indicates good, usable, processed, expired, non-usable, not processed and alike status.
        Yet other main objectives of the present invention are to activate or assemble the
indicating devices herein.
        Provided are indicating devices/systems and processes based on change in light
scattering, opacity and/or reflectivity of an indicator or indicating layer.
        Provided are indicating devices/systems and processes having antimicrobial materials
as indicators or activators.
        Provided are indicating devices/systems and processes providing more than one
message.
        Provided is a wear, rub, scuff, grind or erode indicating device wherein the wearing
layer is an opaque layer.
        Provided is a wear, rub, scuff, grind or erode indicating devices wherein the wearing
layer is an opaque layer and a message is printed underneath.
        Provided is a wear, rub, scuff, grind or erode indicating device wherein the wearing
layer is a metal layer and a message is printed underneath.
        Provided is a wear indicating device where an opaque wedge shaped layer is removed
by wear or wear is indicated with a message printed underneath appears gradually indicating
degree of usage.
        Provided is a control release device wherein a thin layer of metal is used to
encapsulate, cover or protect a substance to be released by dissolution of the said metal.
        Provided are fine particles of metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, tin and their
alloys as an indicator.
        Provided are inks, coating formulations and dried coating of fine particles of metals,
such as aluminum, copper, zinc and their alloys as an indicator.
                                                 19

        Yet other main objectives of the present invention/indicating system are to provide
processes of/for:
    *   making the formulations, compositions, layers, tapes and devices disclosed herein.
    *   applying the activator tape over indicator tape with or without some of the layers and
        compositions disclosed herein.
    *   applying the said devices disclosed herein on to an object.
    *   applying the said indicating devices disclosed herein on a box.
    *   applying the said devices disclosed herein on a human or animal.
    *   applying the said devices disclosed herein to an object requiring monitoring of time.
    *   applying the said devices disclosed herein to an object requiring monitoring of time
        and temperature.
    *   applying the said devices disclosed herein to a human, clothing or perishables.
    *   monitoring transparency change, appearance or disappearance of messages or images
        of the said devices herein.
    *   reading the said devices herein.
    *   reading the said devices herein with a machine.
        Yet another main objective of the present invention is to monitor expiration and
stages in between of the said devices herein and perishables they are applied on.
        Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide said devices herein which
have essential no liquid.
        Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide said devices herein which
are low cost.
        Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide said devices herein which
are self reading.
        Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide said devices herein which
are self expiring.
        The other objectives of this invention/system are to provide:
    *   an indicating device for notification of an item or process that needs to be done after
        the passage of a pre-determined time.
    *   a warning label or sign on which the message appears or disappears after a pre
        determined time.
    *   a game wherein answers or solutions to questions, a message, image or problems
        become visible or disappears after a pre-determined time.
                                               20

* a badge, label or sticker which provides a relatively clear indication of expiration of a
  pre-determined time.
* an indicating device wherein the time required for a noticeable change including
  change in opacity can be varied by easy or simple means.
* an indicating device which can provide the user with a clear indication of the
  increments of time.
* an indicating device that rapidly changes color after a specific time interval.
* an indicating device which can provide information upon the passage.
* an indicating device which provides a clear indication of expiration and remains
  visible for long periods of time.
* a warning label or sign which warns about the passage of time by appearance or
  disappearance of the warning.
* an identification badge, label or sticker that may be replaced without replacing the
  fastening means.
* a shelf life indicating device wherein the device changes color or words appears or
  disappears after specified intervals of time corresponding to the shelf life of the
  product.
* a time indicating device for indicating the passage of long periods of time, including
  months and even years.
* a time indicating band that cannot be transferred between persons without breaking,
  cutting or otherwise tampering with the band.
* a time indicating band which fits wrist and other objects.
* a band or tape which self-expires after the passage of a time interval.
* a product age indicating device wherein the device is applied to products prior to
  transportation, and the indicating device changes with time to show the relative age of
  the product.
* a label for use with perishable products including pharmaceutical products which self
  expires upon reaching the end of the useful life of the product.
* a self-expiring security tape for use in customs and checked baggage facilities
  wherein the security tape self-expires after set intervals to prevent reissue thereof.
* self expiring sensors
e a self-expiring parking permit which enables a parking attendant to determine from a
  relatively long distance whether the parking permit has expired.
                                         21

    *  self-expiring transportation tickets, passes and transfers, including admission tickets
       for parks, theater and other events which expire upon the passing of set intervals,
       including one day tickets, one week tickets, one month tickets and tickets of other
       time intervals.
    *  a price tag which, after a time interval, changes to indicate a reduced price.
    *  a parking time indicating device which is disposable and is relatively inexpensive.
    *  a self-changing retail sticker wherein a sticker is applied to purchased goods at the
       point of purchase and the sticker self-expires to prevent the purchaser from reusing
       the sticker at another time.
    *  a self-expiring parking permit which enables a parking attendant to determine from a
       relatively long distance whether the parking permit has expired.
    *  an advertising or promotional product wherein latent information becomes visible
       after a specified interval of time.
    *  an indicating device which indicates that service is required after the passage of an
       interval of time, for use in such applications as changing oil, changing lubricants,
       changing water, etc.
    *  an indicating device which, after the passage of an interval of time, indicates that a
       product should be replaced, e.g., an air filter, a water filter, batteries, etc.
    *  an identification badge which can be assembled at the location of use, such as at a
       convention center, a trade show or a meeting room.
    *  an identification badge wherein the possibility of duplication, tampering with, or
       counterfeiting is minimized.
    *  an indicating device which is a ticket which self-voids after the passage of a time
       interval.
    *  an indicating device which is a self-voiding bar code.
    *  a time indicating device which is not easily counterfeited.
    *  a warning label or sign which the warning message self-expires or disappears after a
       specified interval of time.
    *  a tamper indicating packaging tape which indicates that a package has been tampered
       with.
       Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide indicating devices herein
in form a band.
       Provided is an indicating device which is foldable.
                                                22

        Provided is a method of making name badges.
        Provided are indicating devices having a thin metallic layer, e.g., that of a metal for
monitoring doneness of food.
        Provided is a self-heating package doneness indicating device composed of at least
one substrate having at least one metallic indicator and at least one activator.
        Provided is a self-heating package doneness indicating device composed of at least
one substrate having a metallic indicator and an activator which react with the said metallic
indicator.
        Provided is a self-heating package doneness indicating device composed of at least
one substrate having a metallic layer as an indicator and an activator which melts and react
with the said metallic layer at a predetermined temperature.
        Provided is a microwave energy interactive indicating device.
        Provided is a microwave doneness indicating device composed of at least one
substrate having at least one metallic indicator and at least one activator.
        Provided is a microwave doneness indicating device composed of at least one
substrate having a metallic indicator and an activator which reacts with the said metallic
layer.
        Provided is a microwave doneness indicating device composed of at least one
substrate having a metallic as an indicator and an activator which melts and react with the
said metallic layer at a predetermined temperature.
        Provided is a microwave energy interactive indicating device comprising a microwave
energy interactive material supported on a polymeric layer, an activator layer superposed
with the microwave energy interactive layer and a metallic indicator layer.
        Provided is a microwave doneness indicating device composed of a layer of
polymeric fibrous material, a layer of thermoplastic polymer layer having microwave
susceptive layer, an activator layer on a microwave energy susceptive layer and a metallic
indicator layer.
        Provided is an above described microwave doneness indicating devices and bonded
into an integral structure by application of heat and/or pressure.
        Provided is a microwave energy interactive indicating device composed of a paper or
board substrate, a layer of a polymer, a metal or other microwave interactive susceptor
material on a polymer layer, an activator layer either in an overall layer or preselected pattern
and their plurality.
                                                23

         Provided is a microwave susceptor indicating device which includes a layer of
thermoplastic polymer material having a microwave susceptive material, a layer of patterned
activator in contact with and capable of etching microwave susceptive material, a polymeric
fibrous material layer on the activator layer and bonded into an integral structure by
application of heat and pressure.
         Provided is microwave energy interactive indicating device composed of a metallic
layer which is less than 20 Angstroms.
         Provided are indicating device applied on self-heating meal package and doneness of
microwaveable foods.
         Provided are above devices and process where metallic layer is a metal or an alloy.
         Provided are above devices and process where metallic layer is aluminum, tin, copper,
zinc and their alloys.
         Provided is a microwave energy interactive indicating device composed of a low
melting metal or an alloy.
         Provided is a temperature indicating device composed of at least one substrate having
at least one metallic indicator and at least one activator.
         Provided is a temperature indicating device composed of at least one substrate having
a metal as indicator and an activator which react with the said metal.
         Provided is a temperature indicating device composed of at least one substrate having
a metal as an indicator and an activator which melts and react with the said metal at a
predetermined temperature or temperature range.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide a temperature followed by time
temperature indicating devices having a metallic layer.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide an indicating device having a
metallic layer for monitoring a pre-determined temperature which also monitors time
temperature once the said temperature is reached.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide below ambient temperature and
time-temperature indicating devices having a metallic layer.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide above ambient temperature-and
time-temperature indicating devices having a metallic layer.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide freeze and time-temperature
indicating devices having a metallic layer.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide a temperature and time-temperature
indicating devices wherein a metal is used as an indicator.
                                                 24

        It is an object of the present invention to provide a temperature and time-temperature
indicating devices wherein a metal is used as an indicator and a solid activator which melts at
or around 00 C.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide an indicating device for a pre
determined temperature which also monitors time-temperature once the said temperature is
reached wherein a metal is used as an indicator.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide below ambient temperature and
time-temperature indicating devices wherein a metal is used as an indicator.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide freeze and time-temperature
indicating devices wherein a metal is used as an indicator.
        It is another object of the present invention to provide a device which irreversibly
indicates a temperature excursion below a threshold temperature wherein a metallized plastic
film is used as an indicator.
        Provided is a temperature indicating device, including freezing comprising: (a) a
metallized substrate; (b) a layer of an activator on the said metallized substrate which upon
cooling to a pre-determined low temperature, releases an activator.
        Provided is a process of monitoring a temperature including steps of freezing of an
object comprising the above said device.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide a temperature and time-temperature
indicating device wherein a metal is used as an indicator and a layer for controlled release of
an activator.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide a temperature and time-temperature
indicating device wherein a metal is used as an indicator and a layer for controlled release of
an activator is provided by rupturing of microcapsules.
        It is an object of the present invention to provide a temperature and time-temperature
indicating device wherein a metal is used as an indicator and a layer for controlled release of
an activator is provided by dissolution or melting of microcapsules.
        Yet other main objective of this invention is to provide indicating device in form of a
long tape.
        Yet other main objective of this invention is to provide indicating device in form of a
long tape having an adhesive.
    Yet other main objectives of this invention are to provide an indicating device:
    *   in form of a long adhesive tape for application on a box or carton of perishables or
        time and/or temperature sensitive objects.
                                                25

    *   used as a sealing tape.
    *   in form of a sealing tape for monitoring shelf lives of perishables.
    *   used as a sealing tape having all features of time, temperature, time-temperature,
        thawing, freezing, microwave, humidity, ionizing radiation and sterilization and/or
        other indicating devices disclosed herein.
        Provided is an indicating device sealing tape comprised of an activator tape and an
indicator tape to form an indicating device tape.
        Provided is an indicating tape device made by applying an indicator sealing tape on an
activator tape.
        Provided is an indicating tape device further having an adhesive layer to apply on an
object.
        Provided is an indicating device which is activated by heating, pressure, radiation and
water.
        Provided is an indicating tape device applied on a packaging tape.
        Provided is an indicating tape device applied under a packaging tape.
        Provided is a process of applying an indicating tape device on an object.
        Provided is a process of applying an indicating tape device on a box containing
perishables.
        Provided is a process of applying an indicating tape device on a box containing items
which are sensitive to time, temperature, time-temperature, humidity and/or steam.
        Provided is a process of applying an indicating tape device to seal a box or a package.
        Provided is a process of applying an indicating tape device on a box containing items
to be processed or monitored.
        Provided are above said indicating tape devices having a metallic layer.
        Provided is a flow chart of making decision at different stages of activated indicating
device.
        Provided are one or more processes of making an indicating device (with or without a
metallic layer), applying on a box containing units of a product to be processed or process to
be monitored, indicator undergoing a noticeable change, quality of the units being accessed
after the process, decision made to accept, use, reject or return, indicator tape being removed
or cut, product being accepted or rejected.
                                               26

        Provided are hand held and powered indicating dispensing systems which hold
indicator and activator tapes, activates them, dispense the activated device and apply on an
object.
        Provided is a tape dispenser to dispense an activated device and apply on an object
including a perishable or container of a perishable.
        Provided is a tape dispenser to dispense an activated device and apply on a box.
        Provided is a tape dispenser to dispense an activated device sealing a box containing
more than one unit of an item including perishables.
        Provided is a label dispenser to dispense an activated label device and apply on a box.
        Yet other main objectives of the present invention are to provide:
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin metallic layer.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin layer of a metal or an alloy.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin layer of aluminum, copper, zinc,
        tin or their alloys.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a 10-10,000 Angstroms layer of
        aluminum, tin, copper, zinc or their alloys.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin metallic layer on a plastic
        substrate.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a 10-10,000 Angstroms layer of
        aluminum, copper, zinc or their alloys on a plastic substrate.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin metallic layer on a plastic
        substrate and additionally having at least one permeable or barrier layer.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin layer of a metal or an alloy on a
        plastic substrate and additionally having at least one permeable or barrier layer on the
        said metal.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin metallic layer on a plastic
        substrate and additionally having at least one permeable or barrier layer in form of a
        wedge.
    * a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin layer of aluminum, copper, zinc or
        their alloys on a plastic substrate and additionally having at least one permeable or
        barrier layer on the said metal.
                                                27

* a sterilization indicating device composed of a 10-10,000 Angstroms layer of
  aluminum, copper, zinc or their alloys on a plastic substrate and additionally having at
  least one permeable or barrier layer on the said metal.
* a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin layer of a metal or an alloy on a
  plastic substrate and additionally having a layer containing an activator.
* a sterilization indicating device composed of a thin layer of a metal or an alloy on a
  plastic substrate and additionally having a layer containing an activator composed of
  an acid, a base, a salt or chelating agent.
* a sterilization indicating formulation composed of particles of a metal or a metal alloy
  as an indicator and an activator which reacts with the metal or the metal alloy.
* a sterilization indicating formulation composed of particles of aluminum, copper, tin,
  zinc or their alloys as an indicator and an activator which reacts with the said metals.
* a said sterilization indicating formulations coated on a substrate to make a sterilization
  indicating device.
* a said sterilization indicating formulations coated on container including a pouch
  containing an object to be sterilized.
* a said sterilization indicating device having properties or features of TI and TTI
  disclosed herein.
* a process of monitoring sterilization with the said sterilization indicating devices.
* a method of steam sterilization of an article comprising a steam sterilization indicating
  composition comprising a thin metallic layer.
* a method of steam sterilization of an article comprising a steam sterilization indicating
  composition comprising a thin metallic layer of a metal or an alloy on a substrate.
* a method of monitoring steam sterilization of an article comprising a steam
  sterilization indicating composition comprising a thin layer of a metal or an alloy on a
  substrate and capable of reacting with steam.
* a method of monitoring steam sterilization of an article comprising a steam
  sterilization indicating composition comprising a thin layer of a metal or an alloy on a
  substrate and capable of reacting with steam and being destroyed.
* a method of monitoring steam sterilization of an article comprising a steam
  sterilization indicating composition comprising a thin layer of metal on a substrate
  and capable of reacting with steam but not with dry heat.
                                           28

    * a sterilization indicating composition containing a metallic indicator and binder
        further comprising a binder which is polymeric.
    * a sterilization indicating composition further comprising a surfactant, a defoamer, a
        filler, a metallic indicator, a plasticizer, a flow aid, a binder, an activator and/or a
        solvent.
    * a steam sterilization indicating composition preparable by combining components
        comprising a metal or an alloy, a binder and an activator.
    * a steam sterilization indicating device comprising a substrate having coated thereon at
        least a portion of one major surface thereof the metallic steam sterilization indicating
        formulation.
    * a sterilization indicating device adapted for insertion into a sterilization chamber of a
        pre-vacuum steam sterilizer for indicating the presence of unacceptable levels of non
        condensable gas comprising a metallic indicator.
    * sterilization indicating devices composed of a metallic indicator and water, water
        vapor, steam, humidity, moisture, ethylene oxide, hydrogen peroxide, peracetic acid,
        formaldehyde, ozone plasma, ionizing radiation and dry heat as agents for the
        processes.
    * said sterilization indicating devices wherein said activator is created from its
        precursor.
    * said sterilization indicating devices having a catalyst to accelerate the reaction.
        Provided are said (metallic) indicating devices applied on an item or a box containing
items to be sterilized.
        Provided are said (metallic) indicating devices applied on an item or a container
containing a biological waste.
        Provided are said (metallic) indicating devices applied on an item or a box containing
items to be sterilized with steam, dry heat, ethylene oxide, plasma, peracetic acid,
formaldehyde, ozone and high-energy radiation.
        Yet other main objectives of the present invention are to provide:
    * an ink, paint, plastisol or coating formulation composed of fine particles of a metallic
        indicator, a binder a vehicle and an activator or its precursor.
    * a coating composed of fine particles of a metallic indicator, a binder and an activator
        or its precursor.
    * a coating composed of fine particles of a metal, a binder and an activator.
                                                 29

     *   a coating composed of fine particles of a aluminum, copper, zinc, tin or their alloys, a
         binder and an activator.
     *   an ink or paint formulation and its dried coating on a substrate composed of fine
         particles of aluminum, a binder, a vehicle and an activator or a precursor which is
         acidic, basic, or oxidant having capability reacting with aluminum, copper, zinc and
         their alloys, their oxides or a dried coating of it on a substrate.
     *   a process of treating the above coatings with hot water, water vapor, humidity,
         moisture or high temperature steam.
     *   a process of treating the above coatings with hot water, water vapor, humidity,
         moisture or high temperature steam and determining the treatment by change in
         opacity of the said coating.
         It is an object of the present invention to provide a relatively small, inexpensive and
disposable test pack composed of the said indicating device for use in pre-vacuum steam
sterilizers to determine whether the sterilizer is functioning in accordance with proper
standards by simulating air evacuation and steam penetration conditions of the conventional
pack described in the Bowie and Dick protocol so as to define an appropriate challenge for a
residual air test in a pre-vacuum sterilizer.
         It is another object to provide the above and related objects of the present invention to
obtain a device adapted for insertion into a sterilization chamber for indicating the presence
of unacceptable levels of non-condensable gas.
         Provided are metallic encapsulated indicating devices which can be activated when
desired and composed of at least one metallic indicator, such as a thin layer of metal or fine
particles of a metal and at least one activator, in which at least one of the components is
encapsulated, protected or separated with a barrier layer to prevent one reacting with the
another.
         Provided are metallic encapsulated devices having at least one additional protective,
reactive, permeable, barrier or activating layer.
         Provided are activated metallic encapsulated devices for monitoring time, time
temperature, thaw, freeze, humidity, ionizing radiation, temperature, microwave, sterilization
(including steam, ethylene oxide, plasma, formaldehyde, dry heat, hydrogen peroxide and
peracetic acid), chemical, biological and chemical agents and/or electronic devices, such as
RFID, EAS and alike based on controlled etching of the said indicator with the said activator.
                                                  30

         Provided are metallic encapsulated devices having a thin metal layer and a layer of
microcapsules of an activator or is precursor on to the metal layer, both being on the same
side of a substrate.
         Provided are processes of activation of metallic encapsulated devices destroying the
integrity of the said barrier layer.
         Provided are processes of activation of metallic encapsulated devices by pressure,
heat, light, laser, moisture, humidity, steam, water and chemicals.
         Provided are metallic encapsulated devices applied on an object.
         Provided are optical waveguide sensors and processes for monitoring changes in
chemical or physical parameters, using a metallized optical fiber, with and without a coating
of an activator or its precursor.
         Provided are optical waveguide sensors for monitoring time, temperature, freezing,
defrost, time-temperature, radiation, sterilization, a chemical, an agent, pressure, stress and
alike using a metallized optical fiber with and without a coating of an activator or its
precursor.
         Provided are agent indicating/monitoring devices composed of a metallic indicator
and a precursor for an activator for monitoring exposure to a chemical or biological agent.
         Provided are said agent monitoring devices applied on an object for monitoring
exposure to a toxic chemical agent including a war chemical, such as muster and nerve
agents, biological agents, such as a virus (e.g., anthrax) and bacteria (e.g., small pox), a
hazardous chemical, such as chlorine, chlorine dioxide, ozone, hydrogen peroxide, hydrogen
sulfide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, ammonia, and hydrazine and humidity/moisture
and oxygen.
         Provided are agent indicating monitoring devices composed of a metallic indicator for
monitoring concentration of an agent.
         Provided is a device for the manufacture of printed circuit boards comprising: a
substrate coated there on a metal layer, a resist or barrier layer in form of a pattern of printed
circuit and an activator layer.
         It is an object of the invention to create an electronic circuit device composed of a
substrate having a thin metal layer and a layer of patterned activator having capability of
etching the said metal layer or having a patterned barrier layer between the metal and
activator layers.
                                                31

        It is an object of the invention to create a multilayer device composed of alternating
layers of a substrate having a thin metal layer and a patterned layer of activator or a pattern
barrier layer between the metal and activator layers.
        It is an object of the invention to create a multilayer device composed of alternating
layers of a substrate having a thin metal layer and a patterned layer of activator having
capability of etching the said metal layer or a pattern barrier layer between the metal and
activator layers, wherein said activator melts and etch at an elevated temperature.
        Provided is a device for the manufacture of printed circuit boards comprising: a
substrate coated their on a metal layer, an activator layer or a barrier layer in form of a pattern
of a printed circuit and an insulating layer.
        Provided is a method for making a printed circuit board comprising: providing a
substrate coated their on a metal layer, applying an activator layer in form of a pattern of a
printed circuit.
        Provided is a method for making a printed circuit board comprising: providing a
substrate coated their on a metal layer, applying a resist or a barrier in form of a pattern of
printed circuit and an activator layer.
        Provided is a method for making a printed circuit board comprising: providing a
substrate coated their on a metal layer, applying an activator layer in form of a pattern of a
printed circuit and an insulating layer.
        Provided is an EAS device composed of: a dielectric layer having a thin metal layer
on both the sides, an activator layer on the metal layers and a means of creating circuit
patterns.
        Provided is an EAS device composed of: a dielectric layer having a thin metal layer
on both the sides, an activator layer on the metal layers and a means of creating circuit
patterns and protecting the device dielectric layers.
        Provided is a method of making an EAS device comprising: depositing a metal layer
on each side of a dielectric substrate, applying patterned barrier layer of the circuit and
applying an activator layer on each side of the metal layers.
        Provided is a method of making an EAS device comprising: depositing a metal layer
on each side of a dielectric substrate, applying patterned activator layer on each side of the
metal layers to create circuit patterns.
        Provided is a method of making an EAS device comprising: depositing a metal layer
on each side of a dielectric substrate, applying patterned activator layer on each side of the
metal layers and etching the metal layers to create circuit patterns.
                                                32

        Provided is a method of making an EAS device comprising: creating conductive
circuit patterns on both the sides of a dielectric layer having a metal layer on each side and by
etching with an activator tape.
        Provided also is an EAS device composed of circuit patterns on dielectric substrates
and their utility in radio frequency electronic article surveillance tag circuits.
        Yet other main objectives of the present invention are to provide:
    *   an activator tape capable of reacting with a conducting surface.
    *   a process of applying an activator tape on an electronic device.
    *   a process of applying an activator tape on a conducting path of an electronic device.
    *   a process of applying an activator tape on a conducting path or a layer of an electronic
        circuit.
    *   an activator tape capable of reacting with a conducting path or a layer of an electronic
        circuit.
    *   an activator tape when applied is capable of reacting and substantially destroying or
        reducing the conductivity of the conducting path or a layer of an electronic circuit.
    *   an activator tape capable of reacting with a conducting layer and creating conducting
        lines.
    *   an activator or an activator tape upon reacting with a conducting path capable of
        making the device substantially ineffective or responding in a different way.
    *   a process of applying an activator tape on an inlay of a RFID device.
    *   a process of applying an activator tape on an antenna or a conducting path of a RFID
        device.
    *   an activator tape when applied is capable of reacting with an antenna or a conducting
        path of a RFID device substantially reducing or destroying the conductivity of the
        path.
    *   an activator tape when applied is capable of reacting with an antenna or a conducting
        path of a RFID device substantially reducing or destroying the conductivity and
        making the device non-readable.
    *   an activator tape when applied on a metal layer is capable of creating an antenna from
        a conductive layer.
    *   an RFID device having two RFID inlays, one having an activator tape which is
        capable of destroying its conductive paths.
                                                 33

    *   a process of creating a RFID device by applying an activator tape on a conductive
        surface having a patterned barrier layer.
    *   a process of reading a RFID device before and after activation or de-activation.
    *   a process of reading a RFID device after creating an antenna.
    *   a process of applying activated RFID device on an object
    *   said RFID devices used as time, temperature, time-temperature, thawing, freezing,
        microwave, humidity, ionizing radiation and sterilization and/or other indicating
        devices disclosed herein including monitoring of an agent.
        Provided is a metallized patterning composite comprising: a polymer layer having a
thin metal layer, a discontinuous layer of activator in form of a pattern to create a design and
a protective polymer layer.
        Provided is a metallized patterning composite comprising: a polymer layer having a
thin metal layer, a patterned barrier layer and a layer of activator and a protective polymer
layer.
        Provided is a patterning metallized composite comprising: a polymer layer having a
thin metal layer, a discontinuous layer of activator in form of a pattern to create a design, a
protective polymer layer and a bonding layer to bond the composite to a substrate either
polymer layer.
        Provided is the said metallized pattern composite wherein said layers are laminated
together.
        Provided is the said metallized pattern composite wherein said bonding layer is
composed of a pressure sensitive, heat activated adhesive or radiation cured adhesive.
        It is another object to provide a toy, gimmick, message, gift card, greeting card etc
made from the indicating device.
        Further provided are binders, emulsions, latexes and solutions of polymers for the said
devices which are self crosslinking or can be crosslinked with an additive.
        Further provided are emulsions, latexes and binders for the said devices which are
unaffected by sterilants including humidity and steam.
        Further provided are pH neutral or near neutral polymeric solutions, latexes, and
dispersions as binders for the said devices.
        Further provided are polyurethane and carboxylated polyacrylics/polyacrylates as
binders for the said devices.
                                               34

         Further provided is a mixture of at least one indicating dye or pigment for the said
devices.
         Further provided is a mixture of color indicators of different nature or non-indicating
pigments or dyes for the said devices.
         Provided is a substrate or similar layer for the above said devices composed of
polyethylene, polypropylene, a polymeric ionomer, polyvinyl fluoride, polyvinylidene
chloride, acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, polyvinylidene fluoride, thermoplastic olefin,
thermoplastic polyurethane, polyvinyl chloride, polyethylvinyl acetates, polyesters or
polyamides.
         Provided is an adhesive or similar layer for the above said devices composed of a
pressure sensitive or heat activated adhesive composed of acrylic pressure-sensitive
adhesives, silicone pressure-sensitive adhesives, thermally activated adhesive, polyester and
isocyanate adhesive, polychloroprene and isocyanate adhesive, polyurethane and isocyanate
adhesive, polyurethane and aziridine adhesive.
         Provided is a metal or similar layer for the above said devices composed of zinc, tin,
gallium, aluminum, magnesium, cadmium, copper, nickel, cobalt, iron, stainless steel, gold,
platinum, chromium, palladium, rhodium and their alloys.
         Further provided are said indicating device wherein at least one layer is larger than the
rest of the device.
         Further provided is an apparatus and processes for reading the said indicating device
comprising a bar code reader, spectrophotometer, optical densitometer or a linear charge
coupled device (CCD) capable of detecting the said changes.
         Further provided are precursors for the said activators.
         Further provided are precursors for the said activators for said indicating device.
         Further provided are precursors for production of acids, bases and salts.
         Further provided are precursors for the said activator for time, temperature, time
temperature, thaw, freeze, humidity, ionizing radiation, microwave, sterilization (including
steam, ethylene oxide, plasma, formaldehyde, dry heat, hydrogen peroxide and peracetic
acid), chemicals, biological and chemical agents, and electronic devices, such as RFID, EAS,
printed electronics, printed electrodes and alike.
         Also provided are processes and means of production of activators from said
precursors.
                                                35

        It is an object of this invention to provide for an indicating system that overcomes the
deficiencies of the prior art by providing a more relatively sharp induction period of the
indicating event.
        It is also an object of the invention that the system provides for an easily readable
indication of the indicated event or objective.
        It is another object of the invention to provide an indicating system that can signal
either a specific occurrence or the progress of an ongoing occurrence.
        It is yet another object of the invention to provide for a system that can provide a
message, warning, further instructions, expiration times.
        It is another object of the invention to provide for an indicating system that is self
expiring or self-voiding.
        This invention relates to an indicating system that can be used in a variety of
indicating devices.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
        The foregoing and other objects, features and advantages will be apparent from the
following description of the preferred embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, examples and preferred embodiment. The invention is more fully
described below in conjunction with the figures wherein:
        Figure 1 shows a schematic cross sectional views of a basic current (a) and prior art
(b) indicating devices. Cross sectional view of the metal layer with its naturally formed oxide
layer is shown in Figure 1(c). The ultra thin oxide layer is not shown in the rest of the
Figures.
        Figure 2 shows a schematic presentation of color development versus time after the
activation of a prior art (a) and current indicating (b) devices.
        Figure 3 shows a schematic presentation of some basic and optional layers of the
device. The naturally formed oxide layer on the metal layer is not shown.
        Figure 4 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of an indicating
device at different stages after activation. Dissolution of the oxide layer of the metal is not
shown.
        Figure 5 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of an indicating
device with expiration indicator layer having a message before (1) and after (2) the
expiration.
                                                 36

        Figure 6 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of an indicating
device with expiration indicator layer having a barcode before (1) and after (2) the expiration.
        Figure 7 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of an indicating
device with a message printed over the activator layer and another message printed on the
expiration indicator layer to create a new message.
        Figure 8 shows a schematic presentation of some selected basic layers of an indicating
device with (b) and without (a) a permeable layer.
        Figure 9 shows a schematic presentation of color development or change in
transparency versus time after the activation of the device without a permeable layer (a) and
with more (b) and less (c) permeable layers.
        Figure 10 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of an indicating
device having a wedge shaped permeable layer having numbers printed on a colored
expiration indication layer, at different stages after the activation of the device.
        Figure 11 shows a schematic presentation of a self expiring visitor's badge (time
indicator) having a colored opaque activator substrate with dark X printed on it and an
optional permeable layer; (a) cross sectional view of the badge, (b) visitor's photo viewed
from top when issued and (c) the photo viewed from the top after the expiration.
        Figure 12 shows a schematic cross sectional views of indicating device having some
different discontinuous layers at selected different locations of the device.
        Figure 13 shows a schematic cross sectional presentations of two of many possible
modifications of a band or foldable indicating device having activator and indicator tapes at
the ends of a substrate.
        Figure 14 shows a schematic cross sectional presentations of another modification of
a band or foldable indicating device having a major portion of the substrate covered with an
indicator layer before (a) and after folding/activation (b).
        Figure 15 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of an indicating
device having a X-shaped barrier layer (an etching mask) on the indicator layer, (1) when
activated, (2) expired and (3) expired device having a colored expiration indicator layer.
        Figure 16 shows a schematic cross sectional presentation of some parts of a two-tape
dispenser for dispensing activated tape.
        Figure 17 shows a schematic presentation of sealing of a box, e.g., containing
perishables, with activated indicating tape device from a tape dispenser.
                                                 37

        Figure 18 shows a schematic presentation of a box sealed with an activated indicating
device, (a) having an activator tape over a narrow indicator tape and upon expiration of the
indicating tape device (b).
        Figure 19 shows a schematic cross sectional views of an indicating/sealing tapes
having some desirable features of TTI for different purposes on a substrate having activator
layer and conventional PSA layer on the same side.
        Figure 20 shows a schematic cross sectional views of an indicating/sealing tapes
having some desirable features of TTI for different purposes on a conventional sealing tape.
        Figure 21 shows a schematic cross sectional views of sealing tapes having some most
desirable features of TTI on a conventional sealing tape.
        Figure 22 shows a schematic cross sectional (a) top and (b) cross sectional views of a
sealing tape having a couple of features of TTI on a conventional sealing tape in
discontinuous fashion.
        Figure 23 shows a schematic top view of a method of making a RFID indicating
device.
        Figure 24 shows a schematic presentation of RFID inlays without an activator tape (a)
and an activator tape applied at different locations on the antenna (b) and (c). A RFID device
with two RFID inlays, one having an activator tape is shown in (d).
        Figure 25 shows a schematic presentation of RFID inlays of Figure 24 after etching
portions of antenna by the activator tape.
        Figure 26 shows a schematic cross sectional views of (a) a double RFID indicating
device, (b) with an activator tape applied on one RFID inlay and (c) after making the inlay
non-readable upon etching of the antenna.
        Figure 27 shows a schematic cross sectional views of (a) an ink coating with metal
particles, (b) metal particles and an activator, (c) partial reaction of activator on metal
particles and (d) complete destruction of the metal particles.
        Figure 28 shows a schematic presentation of a method of making (a-c) a thermally
activatable indicating device having a layer of thermally activatable microencapsulated
activator on a metal layer and different stages (d-f) of the device after activation.
        Figure 29 shows a schematic presentation of a thermally activatable indicating device
(a) having a layer of thermally activatable microencapsulated activator on a metal layer on
one side and conventional thermally printable layer on the other side and appearance after
activation (b) and upon expiration (c-d).
                                                 38

        Figure 30 shows a cross sectional schematic presentation of a method of making a
direct thermal printable indicating device made by folding.
        Figure 31 shows a cross sectional schematic presentation of some of the different
ways a microencapsulated activator, an indicator and an additive can be applied on an
indicator layer.
        Figure 32 shows a schematic top (a) and cross sectional (b) views of a RFID inlay (al
and bl) having a layer of microencapsulated activator tape applied on the RFID inlay (a2 and
b2) and upon expiration (a3 and b3).
        Figure 33 shows an example of a TTI device showing two messages during and after
the induction period.
        Figure 34 shows an example of a moving boundary indicating device having a wedge
shaped permeable barrier.
        Figure 35 shows an example of box sealed with an indicating sealing tape upon
activation (a) and upon expiration (b).
        Figure 36 shows an example of a visitor's badge having a wedge shaped permeable
layer between the indicator and activator layers at different stages after activation.
        Figure 37 shows an example of a RFID-indicating device at different stages after the
activation with an activator tape.
        Figure 38 shows an example of creation of an antenna for a RFID and similar
electronic devices.
        Figure 39 shows a plot of percent transparency of an indicating device versus time.
        Figure 40 shows an example of a steam sterilization indicating device made from a
aluminum powder and an activator treated with different sterilization conditions.
        Figure 41 shows an example of a moving boundary steam sterilization indicating
device treated with steam for different periods of time at 120 0 C.
        Figure 42 shows an example of a hydrogen peroxide sterilization indicating device
made from a aluminum powder and a precursor treated with different sterilization conditions.
        Figure 43 shows an example of a ethylene oxide sterilization indicating device made
from a aluminum powder and a precursor treated with different sterilization conditions.
        Figure 44 shows plots of time required for phosphoric acid to make an aluminum
layer to start to become almost transparent and that for completely transparent versus its
concentration.
                                               39

                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION AND PREFERRED
                                       EMBODIMENTS
         This invention relates to an indicating system that can be used in a variety of
indicating devices.
         The indicating system of the invention is comprised of a metallic indicator layer and
an activator layer, wherein the metallic layer is a metal, a metal alloy, a semi-metallic
material or a semi-conducting material. The activator is comprised of an agent that is capable
of irreversibly changing the indicator layer by etching, or destroying the layer or by changing
the properties of the layer.
         The indicator layer of the invention comprises a material that is conductive or
becomes conductive, reflective, highly opaque, self binding and/or impermeable and which
becomes invisible, transparent, semi-transparent, non-conductive or is destroyed when
reacted with an activator of the invention.
         Preferred indicator materials of the invention include a metal, such as alkali metals,
alkaline earth metals, transition metals, post transition metals, lanthanide and actinides metals
and their alloys or more preferably low melting metals, bronzes and alloys.
         Preferred metals include aluminum, tin, zinc, copper, manganese, magnesium, nickel,
cobalt, iron, sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, gallium, cesium, germanium, indium and
their alloys. Most preferred is aluminum, copper, zinc or tin and their alloys.
         Preferred metals and metal alloys of the invention include those that are more
sensitive to water and also to acids, bases, chemical or biological agents and salts. An alloy
of more than one metal, such as that of aluminum-magnesium-copper can also be used.
Alloys of aluminum are described in many books, e.g., "Aluminum and aluminum alloys",
Joseph R. Davis, J. R. Davis & Associates, ASM International, Materials Park, OH, 1993 and
many of them could be used to make the indicator.
         A variety of aluminum bronzes of differing compositions, found to have industrial
uses, with most ranging from 5% to 11% aluminum by weight, the remaining mass being
copper or other alloying agents, such as iron, nickel and silicon are also useful in the
invention. Aluminum and other bronzes, such as copper-zinc can also be used as indicators.
         The activator of the invention comprises any composition that can react with the
indicator to cause an irreversible change in the chemical composition of the indicator. More
particularly, activators of the invention comprise acids, bases, salts, chemical or biological
agents, - chelates, water and oxygen that readily attack metals and their alloys.           Also
contemplated within the invention are precursors of the activators, that is, compositions that
                                                40

can be acted on by additional components of the indicating system to form the activators of
the invention.
        In a preferred embodiment are inorganic acids, such as phosphoric acid, phosphorous
acid, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid, sulfonic acid, carboxylic acid, their
precursors or a mixture thereof.
        In another preferred embodiment are a hydroxide, alkoxide or aryloxide of a metal or
a cation of nitrogen.
        In another embodiment of the invention the activator is a combination of a salt of a
weak acid and a strong base, a strong acid and a weak base, a strong acid and a strong base,
or a weak acid and a weak base.
        In another embodiment are       a halide, oxide, nitrate, nitrite, phosphate, phosphate,
phosphonate, sulfate, bisulfate, silicate, sulfite, sulfide, bisulfide, sulfonate, cyanate, cyanide,
thiocyanate, acetylacetonate, carboxylate, percarboxylate, carbonate or bicarbonate anion of a
mono, di and trivalent cation of a metal or polyatomic anion of nitrogen, sulfur and
phosphorous or mixture thereof, for example ammonium bromide, ammonium thiocyanate,
calcium chloride, copper chloride, copper ammonia complex, lithium acetylacetonate, lithium
chloride, lithium formate, phosphorous, phosphorous pentoxide, potassium acetate, potassium
benzoate, potassium bromide, potassium chloride, potassium ferrocyanide, potassium
ferricyanide, potassium formate, sodium acetate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium bromide,
sodium carbonate, sodium cyanate, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, sodium iodide, sodium
metasilicate, sodium nitrate, sodium sulfite, sodium tetrafluoroborate, sodium tetraborate,
sodium thiocyanate, sodium thiosulfate, tetraethylammonium bromide, zinc chloride or a
mixture thereof.
        Additional preferred activators include a chelate or complex of a metal cation, such as
that of a transition metal cation, or an amine or ammonia complex of copper chloride or
nickel chloride.
        A preferred embodiment of the invention relates to an indicating system comprising a)
a metallic indicator layer; and b) an activator or a precursor of the activator in close contact
with or in proximity of the indicator layer. Examples of this embodiment include devices
wherein the activator is oxygen, water in the form of ambient humidity or steam, vapor of an
agent, or microwave radiation, wherein the activator reacts directly with metal layer without
being placed directly in contact with the metal layer by way of a tape or other applicator.
More particularly, a thin metal layer, such as a metallized plastic film, can be used for
monitoring chemicals such as water and toxic chemicals wherein the water and toxic
                                                 41

chemicals act as activators for the metal on the plastic film. This is an example of the
indicating system of the invention wherein the activator is an activator layer without a binder.
The indicating system of claim 1 wherein the activator or precursor layer does not react with
the indicator until it is exposed to an agent or a process to be monitored.
        In a particular embodiment, the agent is steam, ethylene oxide, formaldehyde, ozone,
peracetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, a chemical agent or a biological agent. Another
embodiment of the invention relates to an indicating system comprising; a) a metallic
indicator layer; and b) an activator or a precursor of the activator on the said metallic
indicator layer. Examples of this embodiment include a device wherein a dry coat is
deposited on metal layer for sterilization, wherein the dry coat does not react with the
indicator until it is exposed to an agent, for example steam, ethylene oxide, hydrogen
peroxide and the like.. The indicator layer may be deposited on a substrate such as a plastic
film.
        In another embodiment the indicator layer is deposited on a substrate, wherein the
substrate is a plastic film having a continuous metal layer thickness of less than about 10,000
Angstroms. The indicator layer typically is a continuous metal layer having a thickness of
less than about 1,000 Angstroms or a particulate layer having a thickness of less than about
10 microns.
        Another embodiment of the invention relates to an indicating system which comprises
a) a metallic indicator layer; and b) an activator or a precursor capable of producing an
activator; c) a binder for the activator and d) an optional binder which binds the activator and
indicator layers. In this embodiment it is preferred that the indicator be affixed to a substrate
wherein the substrate is for example a plastic film with an optional pressure sensitive
adhesive layer.
        Another embodiment of the invention relates to an indicating system which comprises
a) an indicator tape and b) an activator tape, wherein the indicator tape comprises a substrate
to which is affixed at least one metallic layer and the activator tape comprises an activator or
a precursor capable of producing an activator which is dissolved or dispersed in at least one
matrix layer.
        Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to an indicating system which
comprises a composite an indicator tape and an activator tape, bonded together with at least
one bonding layer wherein the indicator tape comprises a substrate which is affixed to at least
one metallic layer; the activator tape or a tape containing a precursor capable of producing
                                                 42

activator is comprised of a substrate which is affixed to at least one matrix layer containing
an activator.
        Another embodiment of the invention relates to an indicating system which can
monitor a material or a process. More preferred is the indicating system wherein the material
is a chemical, a chemical agent or a biological agent or its concentration and the process is
time, temperature, time-temperature, freeze, thaw, humidity, doneness of food, microwave,
pressure, radiation and sterilization including, for example, sterilization with steam, ethylene
oxide, peroxide, plasmas of peroxide, formaldehyde, dry heat and ionizing radiation.
        In another embodiment of the invention the indicating system is used to indicate the
status of a perishable wherein the perishable is a food item, such as fresh, refrigerated, or
frozen, vegetables, fruits, meats, fish, poultry, dairy products, bakery products, juices, pre
cooked foods, soft and alcoholic beverages, or a nonfood item such as a pharmaceutical,
vaccine, biological sample such as sera, blood, or blood plasma, cosmetics, reactive chemical
compound, biochemical product, battery, x-ray film or photographic film.
        In another embodiment of the invention the indicating system is used as, for example,
in, for or on a safety sticker, self-timing retail sticker, biological industrial process monitor,
self-expiring sticker to prevent re-use, security ID label, visitors badge, self-expiring parking
tag, package and shipping label, wrist band, time indicating ticket for trains, buses, spot
events, theaters etc, self-expiring pass for tours, emergency rooms, hospitals, museums, and
other locations, race track pass, security label for screened luggage, purse, bag at airports to
indicate that such items have been inspected, and at unmanned but video controlled entrances
for visitors where a self-expiring visitor label is issued electronically. In addition, the
indicating system can be used to indicate limited time consumer use for items that have been
opened or in use and should be used within certain period, including but not limited to drinks,
food items, health, personal and family care products. Also included are "gimmick" type
applications such as in toys, gimmick, messages, patterns, designs, gift cards, and greeting
cards
        In another embodiment of the invention, the indicating system is used for or applied
on medical products, food, biological waste, or to monitor the sterilization of such items.
        In another embodiment, the tape can also have an adhesive layer to attach the
indicating system to the item to be monitored.
        In another embodiment of the invention, the indicating system of the invention can be
used as an RFID or printed circuit board. More particularly the invention relates to a device
comprising a substrate having a thin metal layer, a patterned layer of a barrier material and an
                                                43

activator layer.    When the device is activated, certain areas on the indicator layer are
protected by the barrier material, allowing the remaining metal layer to create at least one
conductive path for an electronic device or a metallic pattern.         The electronic device can
additionally have an electronic chip or component. Further, in a more particular embodiment,
in an electronic device composed of an RFID inlay or a conductive path connected to an
electronic chip, the activator layer can destroy a conductive path of the indicator, thus
destroying the electronic device.       Also contemplated is an EAS device composed of: a
dielectric layer having a thin metal layer and an activator layer on both the sides.
         The indicating system of the invention can also have at least one message which
appears as a word or symbol on at least on one side of the indicator layer. The message can
be in color. A message can be on both sides of the indicator layer. In certain instances the
system can contain at least two messages which do not start to become observable at the same
time. An example is an indicator of the status or quality of an item when the indicating
system is applied on or before the treatment of the item and a second message alone or in
combination with the first indicating status or quality of the item after its treatment, such as,
where the first message indicates un-doneness, freshness, usability, acceptability of the item
and the second message alone or in combination with the first indicates doneness, spoilage,
not usability and unacceptability of the item after a treatment or where the first message
indicates non-sterile, non-usability, not-acceptability of the item and the second message
alone or in combination with the first indicates doneness, sterile, usability and acceptability
of the item after a treatment.
         In another embodiment of the invention the indicator layer is comprised of indicating
ink, paint, gel, plastisol and the like. The metallic indicator is in the form of particles and can
have a solvent vehicle or not. More particularly, an embodiment comprises indicating ink,
paint, gel, plastisol and alike composition comprising; a) said indicator in form of particles b)
said activator and c) a binder applied on a substrate (dried coating, i.e., no solvent). Another
embodiment comprises an indicating device that can monitor (1) a material which is a
chemical, biochemical, chemical agent or biological agent, its concentration or (2) a process
which is time, temperature, time-temperature, freeze, thaw, humidity, pressure, radiation and
sterilization including sterilization with steam, ethylene oxide, peroxide, plasmas of peroxide,
formaldehyde and ionizing radiation.
         In another embodiment of the indicating system, the activator layer comprises a
precursor for the activator, such as an acid, base or salt. An example of a precursor is
                                                44

phosphorous pentoxide, which produces phosphoric acid when it reacts with water, and the
like.
        Another embodiment of the invention comprises a precursor for said precursor, such
as phosphorous since white or yellow phosphorous reacts with oxygen to produce a
precursor, phosphorous pentoxide, which further reacts with water to produce activator,
phosphoric acid.
        Additional precursors of an activator comprise monomeric or polymeric halo,
halonium, sulfonium or phosphonium compounds.
        Another embodiment of the invention relates to the process of using the indicating
system of the invention on an object containing items to be processed or monitored.
        Another embodiment of the indicating system of the invention comprises a system
wherein an additional one or more layers are added to the system, wherein the layers are
selected from a binder layer, a permeable to activator layer, a wedge shaped permeable to
activator layer, a barrier to activator layer, reactive, destroyable or degradable barrier layer,
an expiration indicating layer, a tamper indicating layer, an activation indicating layer, a
message or image creating layer or a separating layer, a removable layer, a naturally formed
oxide layer, a disappearing layer, an activatable layer, a microencapsulated layer, thermally
printable, and the like, as are known in the art
        Yet another embodiment of the invention comprises an indicating sealing tape,
comprising a two tape dispenser for the indicator sealing tape and the activator sealing tape,
wherein the two tapes are dispensed simultaneously when applying the sealing tape on a
container.
        Printing on the indicating system of the invention, more especially on a substrate of
the system, can be thermal printing, more particularly, direct thermal printing.
        It is contemplated that any layer of the indicating system can contain a message or
writing on either side of each layer.
        Another embodiment is an indicating system wherein the time required for a change
in the indicator layer or activation energy of the system is varied or adjusted by changing one
or more of the parameters selected from the group of: thickness of the activator layer,
thickness of the indicator layer, thickness of the permeable layer, concentration of the
activator, concentration of the precursor, concentration of an additive in the activator,
concentration of an additive in the permeable layer, nature of a solvent, surfactant and a
catalyst, nature of the activator layer, nature of the indicator layer, nature of the permeable
layer, nature of the additive and nature of a reaction accelerator and retarder.
                                                 45

        Another embodiment of the invention is a high accuracy optical waveguide monitor,
an electronic circuit or an EAS.
        Also contemplated within the invention is an indicating system which is in the form of
a safety sticker, self-timing retail sticker, biological industrial process monitor, self-expiring
sticker to prevent re-use, security ID label, visitors badge, self-expiring parking tag, package
and shipping label, wrist band, time indicating ticket for trains, buses, spot events, theaters,
self-expiring pass for tours, emergency rooms, hospitals, museums, and other locations, race
track pass, security label for screened luggage, purse, bag at airports to indicate that such
items have been inspected, and at unmanned but video controlled entrances for visitors where
a self-expiring visitor label is issued electronically.
        In another embodiment, the indicating system is in the form of a toy, gimmick,
message, pattern, design, gift card, or greeting card.
        In another embodiment the indicating system is a part of an RFID, EAS or printed
circuit board.
        Another embodiment of the invention is a process to monitor the status of medical
products, food, or biological waste which comprises placing the indicating system on the
packaging of such medical products, food, or biological waste.
        Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to process to monitor the presence or
absence of a toxic chemical, an agent or water which comprises placing the indicating system
in the area to be monitored and obtaining the information from the indicating system.
        Another embodiment is a process to monitor a perishable item by placing the
indicating system on or near the perishable item wherein the perishable item is a food item, or
a nonfood item. More particularly one can monitor the limited time consumer use for items
that have been on or the item to be monitored, wherein the item is selected from the group of
drinks, food items, health, personal and family care products.
        The invention also relates to a process of making the indicating systems of the
invention.    In one embodiment, the indicating tape of the invention can be made by
laminating an activator tape on a metallic indicator tape. In another embodiment a layer of
activator is coated on a metallic indicator with and without a permeable layer. In another
embodiment, additional layers can be added to the indicating system.
        Yet another embodiment of the invention relates to the detection and quantitative
measurement or monitoring of chemical, biochemical or biological agents which is based on
etching of metal or metallized optical wave guide. Chemical agents include a lethal agent, a
blister causing agent, a blood affecting agent, a nerve agent, a pulmonary agent, an
                                                 46

incapacitating agent or a riot control agent, such, for example, cyanogen chloride, hydrogen
cyanide, ethyldichloroarsine,     methyldichloroarsine, phenyldichloroarsine,      Lewisite,   1,5
dichloro-3-thiapentane,     1,2-bis(2-chloroethylthio)    ethane,   1,3 -bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n
propane,     1,4-bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane,     1,5-bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane,      2
chloroethylchloromethylsulfide, bis(2-chloroethyl) sulfide, bis(2-chloroethylthio) methane,
bis(2-chloroethylthiomethyl)     ether,  bis(2-chloroethylthioethyl)    ether,  bis(2-chloroethyl)
ethylamine, bis(2-chloroethyl) methylamine, tris(2-chloroethyl)amine, tabun, cerin sarin,
soman,    cyclosarin,  GV, VE, VG, VM, VR, VX chlorine, chloropicrin,                    phosgene,
diphosphene, agent 15 (BZ), EA 3167, kolokol-1, pepper spray, CS gas, CN gas, CR gas and
the like.    Chemicals include toxic industrial chemicals such as, for example, acetone
cyanohydrin, acrolein, acrylonitrile, allyl alcohol, allyl amine, allyl chlorocarbonate, allyl
isothiocyanate, ammonia, arsenic trichloride, arsine, boron tribromide, boron trichloride,
boron trifluoride, bromine, bromine chloride, bromine pentafluoride, bromine trifluoride,
carbon disulfide, carbon monoxide, carbonyl fluoride, carbonyl sulfide, chlorine, chlorine
pentafluoride, chlorine trifluoride, chloroacetaldehyde, chloroacetone, chloroacetonitrile,
chloroacetyl   chloride,   chlorosulfonic   acid, crotonaldehyde,     cyanogen,       1,2-dimethyl
hydrazine,    diborane, diketene, dimethyl sulfate, diphenylmethane-4'-diisocyanate,          ethyl
chloroformate, ethyl chlorothioformate, ethyl phosphonothioicdichloride, ethyl phosphonous
dichloride, ethylene dibromide, ethylene imine, ethylene oxide, fluorine, formaldehyde,
hexachlorocyclopentadiene,      hydrogen bromide, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen cyanide,
hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen iodide, hydrogen selenide, hydrogen sulfide, iron pentacarbonyl,
isobutyl chloroformate, isopropyl chloroformate, isopropyl isocyanate, methanesulfonyl
chloride, methyl bromide, methyl chloroformate, methyl chlorosilane, methyl hydrazine,
methyl isocyanate, methyl mercaptan, n-butyl chloroformate, n-butyl isocyanate, nitric acid,
fuming, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, n-propyl chloroformate, parathion, perchloromethyl
mercaptan,    phosgene, phosphine, phosphorus          oxychloride,  phosphorus     pentafluoride,
phosphorus trichloride, sec-butyl chloroformate, selenium hexafluoride, silicon tetrafluoride,
stibine, sulfur dioxide, sulfur trioxide, sulfuric acid, sulfuryl chloride, sulfuryl fluoride,
tellurium hexafluoride, tert-butyl isocyanate, tert-octyl mercaptan, tetraethyl lead, tetraethyl
pyrophosphate, tetramethyl lead, titanium tetrachloride, toluene 2,4-diisocyanate, toluene 2,6
diisocyanate, trichloroacetyl chloride, trifluoroacetyl chloride, tungsten hexafluoride and the
like.
        In another embodiment is a device to monitor radon and alpha particles.
                                                47

         In another embodiment, the indicating system the indicator layer is on a substrate,
optionally on both sides of the substrate.
         In another embodiment, the indicating system is an indicating device for different
classes of sterilization.
         Yet another embodiment of the invention is a process to determine the concentration
of an agent by either monitoring the time required for the dissolution or partial dissolution of
the indicator layer or by monitoring the change in conductivity, or opacity of the indicator
layer.
         The indicating system of the present invention can best be more fully described by
reference to the figures. For simplicity and clarity of illustration, figures are not necessarily
drawn to scale. For example, the dimensions of some of the elements may be
disproportionally over exaggerated (e.g., to show a thin metal layer) relative to each other for
clarity. Though the metallic indicator and its layer 30 of the indicating system in the Figures
and examples herein could be any material having suitable metallic properties, we have
exemplified them with a metal, especially aluminum or its layer and often referred simply as
an indicator and/or indicator layer. Furthermore, where considered appropriate, reference
numerals have been repeated amongst the figures to indicate corresponding elements.
         Figure 1 shows cross sectional views of a basic current (a) and prior art (b) devices.
Most of the metals have naturally formed, protective, passivating oxide layer as shown
schematically in Figure 1(c). The thickness of the naturally formed oxide layer depends of
metal, its purity and any treatment. For clarity of the Figures naturally formed oxide layer on
the metal layer is not shown in the rest of the Figures. Both the prior art and the current
devices have (1) an activator tape 1 comprising a substrate 10 having thereon an activator
layer 20 composed of an activator matrix 100 containing an activator 1,000 and (2) an
indicator tape 2 comprising an indicator or indicator layer 30 on a substrate 40. However, the
current device (device of this invention) differs significantly and fundamentally in the nature,
composition and design of the indicator tape 2 and indicator layer 30. The indicator layer 30
in the prior art (which is non-metallic) requires and is composed of a matrix 200 such as a
binder/resin/ink/paint or pressure sensitive adhesive containing an indicator 2000. The
indicator layer of the current device does not have a matrix. The indicator 30 of the current
invention, e.g., a metal is film forming. An indicator layer not requiring a matrix/binder is
novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this invention. The indicator
layer of the current device does not require a matrix. It is applied directly on the indicator
substrate as a layer/film without a matrix and it still bonds and undergoes a color change or
                                                48

change in transparency/opacity. The indicator layer acts as a matrix, an indicator and its
layer. The indicator of the current invention has an ability to bond itself and bonds with its
substrate. An example of the indicator of the current device is a metal, such as aluminum.
Aluminum can be coated directly on a plastic film by vacuum deposition (e.g., evaporation or
sputtering) and can undergo a color change and change in opacity, e.g., from silvery
white/opaque, mirror like finish to essentially transparent, colorless, an invisible salt when
reacted with selected activators, such as acids, bases and salts. The metallic luster/sheens are
also often called colors herein and change in opacity is also often called color change. Use of
a metal or its alloy as an indicator is novel for an indicating device and is a preferred
embodiment of this invention.
        Additionally, the metals have a naturally formed oxide layer which acts as a
permeable or barrier layer for the activator as shown in Figure 1(c). In the prior art devices
the permeable/barrier layer needs to be applied. We have observed that this naturally formed
oxide layer plays an important role as a destroyable barrier or permeable layer in the
indicating devices, especially in increasing the time required for the reaction to complete. We
also believe that the oxide layer is impermeable to most of the activators and agents and
hence most likely gets destroyed, i.e., undergoes a heterogeneous reaction with them. This
type of impermeable barriers or their layers, transparent, opaque, colored or otherwise,
naturally formed or intentionally applied or created, can introduce an induction period. This
naturally formed barrier layer which can be destroyed by a heterogeneous reaction is novel
for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this invention. As this naturally
formed oxide type layer is typically much thinner than the metal layer, for clarity of the
drawings it is not shown in the rest of the figures.
        A thin layer of a metal or its alloy, with or without its metal oxide layer and with or
without a layer of precursor, for example, as shown schematically in Figure 1(c) is an
indicating device by itself. Metals and their alloys are known to react with a large number of
materials/chemicals/agents. When exposed to such chemicals, a thin layer of metal can either
react directly with such chemical or with an activator produced by the reaction of a chemical
with the precursor layer.
        There   are many     other nonmetallic materials,      such as    polymeric   dyes   and
polydiacetylenes which are self colored materials and a layer of a sublimed dye can also be
used instead of a metal because they may not need a binder. Polymeric dyes and
polydiacetylenes are polymeric and a very thin layer of a dye, e.g., obtained by procedures,
such as sublimation, will also be very thin, less than 1 micron. A thin metallic indicator layer
                                                49

which is opaque, without binder/matrix, self bonding and/or self coloring is novel for an
indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this invention.
        Figure 2 shows expected plots of color development (reaction rate, intensity of color
development, color change or change in transparency) versus time after the activation of the
prior art and current devices. Typically, the color development of the prior art devices is
asymptotic [plot (a) in Figure 2], a gradual color development/change (which will be rapid in
the beginning and gradually slowing down) without any induction period because the
activator gradually diffuses/migrates or reacted through the indicator matrix. As can be seen
from Figure 2, the reaction of a metal layer with an activator/chemical is completely opposite
in nature [plot (b) in Figure 2] to the prior art. This essentially opposite nature of the
color/transparency change is novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of
this invention. The term migrate/migration and diffuse/diffusion are used interchangeably
herein. In the prior art devices the reaction occurs within a matrix, e.g., in the indicator
matrix. The current indicator layer has no matrix and is non-permeable. An indicator layer
being non-permeable is novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this
invention. Additionally it has an oxide layer. Hence the reaction occurs essentially on its
surface. Thus the reaction is heterogeneous. This heterogeneous reaction occurring at the
surface of the indicator layer without the activator diffusing through the indicator layer and
resultant induction period of the device is novel for an indicating device and is a preferred
embodiment of this invention. The induction period can also be due to slow diffusion of
activator through the oxide layer and/or destruction of the oxide layer. Compared to the prior
art, where the indicator/dye can and does diffuse through the activator matrix, the
indicator/metal of the current invention does not diffuse through the activator matrix. This
non-diffusion or non-migration of activator through a matrix is novel for an indicating device
and is a preferred embodiment of this invention. The current device shows very little color
development or change in transparency for a certain time (i.e., induction period) and then
rapidly changes color, becomes colorless/transparent when most of the metal layer is
consumed. It takes certain time for the activator to destroy the indicator and an oxide layer on
it. The etching reaction/dissolution/destruction of an indicator layer and its oxide layer at a
steady rate is also novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this
invention. As metals are the most opaque materials, the color/opacity remains essentially the
same till an ultra thin layer of the metal is left unreacted. Once the final thin layer is
destroyed the indicator layer becomes transparent. The resultant induction period of the
color/opacity change is novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this
                                               50

invention. The color change for the prior art devices in the end point determination zone is
very little (e.g., less than 5%). The change in transparency for the current invention is
typically more than 80%          in the   end point determination        zone.  This   significant
color/transparency in the end point determination zone is novel for an indicating device and is
a preferred embodiment of this invention. This rapid and significant color/transparency in the
end point determination zone makes the current device significantly more accurate than the
prior art devices.
        An indicating device with a long induction period, similar to that shown in plot (b) of
Figure 2 can also be obtained with many of the prior art devices if the device has a barrier
layer or can be added which is non-permeable to an activator or an agent and undergoes an
etching type heterogeneous/surface reaction with the activator or the agent, i.e., its integrity
as a barrier layer is destroyed. This type of destructible layers and method of producing a
long   and/or   sharp   induction   period by      the layer   with   an activator/agent    by   a
surface/heterogeneous    reaction are novel for an indicating device and is a preferred
embodiment of this invention. The destructible barrier layer can be organic, inorganic or
polymeric. Preferred destructible barrier layer is that of an inorganic material such as a metal
oxide.
        The color change in prior art is usually subject to interpretation while the change from
opaque to transparent is not.
        A schematic presentation of some basic and optional layers of the current device is
shown in Figure 3. There could also be many additional layers as desired. These layers can
have any color, shape, thickness, size and nature as desired. The position of these and other
optional layers relative to one another can often be changed and can often be interchanged.
Most of these layers could be whole, partial or discontinuous. Some of these layers could be
in form of a pattern, message or image. The basic device is composed of (1) an activator tape
1 having substrate 10 having thereon an activator layer 20 composed of an activator matrix
100 and activator 1,000, (2) an indicator tape 2 having substrate 40 having thereon an
indicator layer 30 and an expiration indicating layer 50 and optionally a permeable layer 60
and (3) storage tape 3 composed of a pressure sensitive adhesive (PSA) layer 70, a release
layer 80 and a release liner 90. The expiration indicating layer 50 is highly desirable but not
essential. The expiration indicating layer is a layer which becomes visible when the indicator
layer becomes transparent. The expiration layer 50 can also be between the indicator
substrate 40 and the indicator layer 30. The permeable layer 60 can be used to increase an
induction period of the reaction/transparency change, vary time required for the transparency
                                                51

change and vary the activation energy. The indicator layer has the naturally formed oxide
layer (not shown) which is also a naturally formed permeable/barrier layer. In order to store
and apply devices disclosed herein on an object, the indicator substrate 40 or the expiration
indicating layer 50 can have the storage tape 3. The PSA layer 70 can be applied directly on
the indicator substrate 40 and the release layer 80 can be applied on the activator substrate 10
or vice versa. The device is activated by applying the activator tape 1 on the indicator tape 2.
The device is applied on to an object by removing the release liner 90 and the release layer
80. The device could have many additional optional layers, e.g., optional - top color or
message layer 61, optional - activation indictor layer 62, optional - tamper indicator layer 63
and etching/reaction mask 69 (not shown in Figure 3 but shown in Figure 15, 23 and 38) if
desired/required. These optional layers, such as top message layer, activation layer, tamper
indicating layer and reaction preventing mask layers are novel for an indicating device and
are preferred embodiments of this invention. The optional layers 60 - 69 provide additional
colors, desired effects, messages, images and indications. The layers of the activators and
indicator tapes and the optional layers 60 - 69 may require one or two layers of an
adhesive/binder such as a PSA to bond them with the adjacent layers. The nature and
transparency of these different layers of the device will depend upon the application of the
device. For example, the activator and/or indicator substrates for most of the applications will
be a transparent and/or clear plastic film. However, for certain applications, for example, as
shown in Figures 10, 11, 34 and 35, they can be opaque, semi transparent, colored or having a
message or image. One of the optional layers can be a tamper indicating layer, which could
also be anywhere at an appropriate location in the device. There are many other optional
layers which can be added in the device, for example, one can add a precursor layer 68 and an
etch mask layer 69 (as shown in Figures 15, 23 and 38) for selective etching of the indicator
layer. It is also possible to have more than one of the same layer in a device, e.g., two
metal/indicator layers, and/or two activator layers. These layers may have their own binder.
These optional layers may be composed of a microencapsulated material, such as an
activator.
        There are many other layers and many other ways these layers can be added/arranged
above and below the indicator layer. One such example is a precursor layer 68 on or above
the indicator layer 30. Many precursors when react with another precursor, activator or agent
can produce another activator which will dissolve the metal. For example, a precursor layer
of ammonium nitrate, sodium nitrate or sodium nitrite on the indicator layer will not affect
the indicator. When activated with a weak acid, such as phosphoric acid, the nitrates can
                                               52

produce nitric acid and nitrite can produce a relatively stronger acid such as nitrous or nitric
acid which can react with the indicator much faster than phosphoric acid. It will otherwise be
difficult and/or hazardous to use strong acids and bases as activators. Thus, one can generate
activators in situ and on demand.
         The term dissolve is used herein to describe processes, such as etching and reactions
of a metal to substantially destroy its metallic properties.
         Depending upon the need, application and situation, a matrix of a layer, e.g., that of
an activator layer can be an adhesive or a non-adhesive and can even be directly applied on
the indicator or other layers. For example, to make a two-tape TTI, one can use an adhesive,
such as a pressure sensitive adhesive. However, for certain other applications, such as a steam
sterilization indicating device, the activator matrix could be a non-adhesive matrix/resin
containing an activator or a precursor for an activator and can be applied directly on the
indicator layer. These non-adhesive matrices can hold an activator or precursor for an
activator which become effective under proper conditions, e.g., when certain temperature and
humidity levels are reached.
         Depending upon the need, application and situation, an activator can be replaced with
its precursor. For example, for sterilization with ethylene oxide and hydrogen peroxide, one
can use precursors, such as sodium thiocyanate and tetrabutylammonium bromide
respectively. Sodium thiocyanate when reacts with ethylene oxide produces sodium
hydroxide which can react/dissolve the metal layer. Similarly, tetrabutylammonium bromide
can react with oxidizing agents, such as hydrogen peroxide or its plasma to produce an acid,
such as hydrobromous acid which can also dissolve the metal.
         All devices shown herein may have an opaque, e.g., white layer in the back of the
devices, so all messages and images can be seen.
         In order to store a tape having a PSA as the top layer may have a release layer and/or
release liner (which is not shown in many Figures), so it can wound on itself and stored until
used.
         Figure 4 shows a partial cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of the device at different
stages, e.g., 0, 1/3, 2/3 and full/expiration time after its activation. When the device is
activated by applying an activator tape on to the indicator tape, the device shows the silvery
white (when a thin layer of aluminum is used as an indicator), reflective surface of the
indicator layer 30 (as shown in disproportionally exploded view in Figure 4). The activator
will start reacting/etching (often called dissolving herein, even though the metal is not truly
dissolved) the oxide layer and then the metal layer. Even though the reaction is proceeding,
                                                 53

the color of the aluminum layer does not change very much [as shown schematically in the
top three sets of drawings, 0, 1/3 and 2/3 reaction in Figure 4(b)], until a very thin layer is left
unreacted. When all aluminum is etched away, one can see the color of the expiration
indicating layer 50 [the bottom two drawings in Figure 4(a) and 4(b)]. Thus, the device
provides an induction period even though the reaction does not appear to have an induction
period. Even though the indicator layer does not undergo any color change, the device shows
a color change from silvery white/opaque to the color of the expiration indicating layer, e.g.,
red or any other color, and it is a novelty for an indicating device and is a preferred
embodiment of this invention. There are other possibilities for the induction period to occur,
e.g., requirement of sufficient quantity or concentration for the activator for the etching
reaction to proceed. Thus, it is possible to obtain essentially any expiration color by selecting
the desired color for the expiration indicating layer 50 e.g., green, red, blue and yellow.
Expiration indicating layer 50 can be a colored plastic film or a colored coating on the
substrate 40 and can be on the either side of the substrate. For time indicating device,
different color badges can be used for different days of a conference, group or occasion.
        The expiration indicating layer 50 can also be printed with any desired shape, pattern,
number, message or image 500 as shown in Figure 5. Instead of selecting a colored expiration
indicating layer, one may print any shape, pattern, number, photo, image or message 500 or a
barcode, e.g., as shown in Figure 6 so an optical scanner, CCD camera or a reader/detector
can read and indicate rejection of the expired product. The barcode could have any format
including a two dimensional barcode. The message could be any e.g., "DO NOT USE",
"EXPIRED", "HAZARD" etc. Thus, this device provides a simple and easy way to obtain
essentially unlimited final/expiration colors, shapes, pattern, photos, images, messages and
alike. This process of getting essentially unlimited and any color or message upon expiration
of the device is novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this
invention.
        Figure 7 shows schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of the device with a
message 501 printed on, under or inside a layer 61 or on a surface of the activator substrate
10 as a top message and another message 502 on, under or inside the expiration layer 50 or
on the indicator substrate 40. In this case, both the messages 501 and 502 when combined
make a new and final message when the device expires. A part of the final message, e.g.,
"USABLE" is printed on the surface of activator substrate which can be seen when viewed
from the top of the device as shown in Figure 7(lb). The message indicates the perishable is
usable. The remaining part of the message, e.g., "NOT" is printed on the back surface of
                                                54

indicator substrate as shown in Figure 7(2b). This layer/message ("NOT" in mirror image) is
not visible when viewed from the top because the indicator layer is opaque. When the device
expires, the indicator layer becomes transparent and the message "NOT" becomes visible and
when viewed from the top it appears as "NOT USABLE" as shown in Figure 7(3b). Thus the
combined message "NOT USABLE" indicates that the perishable is not usable. Thus, using
this type of devices, there is no need to print instructions for the user. These devices are self
reading/indicating/instructing. The combining two messages, one of them appearing or
become visible at a later stage of the device and creating a new message is novel for an
indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this invention.
        Similarly, a large number of messages and images can be combined to make final
message/image, for example, "NOT GOOD" "NOT COSUMABLE", "DON'T USE" and
"NOT OK" or symbols and images to convey similar messages.
        Many systems undergo a color change, often gradual and hence require a color
reference chart. By using the selective etching methods described herein, it is also possible to
create messages, such as "STERILIZED" by printing with a barrier ink/binder of essentially
of the same color but unaffected by the etchant. The message will not be easily noticeable.
When the device is treated, e.g., a sterilization process, such as dry heat or steam, the metal
coating will undergo a transparency change, leaving the message easily noticeable.
        Certain symbols, such as a check mark (I) means OK (e.g., when fresh) and X can be
used to indicate acceptability and unacceptability.
        Similarly devices can be created with a part of a bar code or a bar code on the
activator substrate and the remaining of the bar code or another bar code on the back of
indicator substrate. In this case, both the messages when combined can make a new final
number/barcode or both barcodes readable when the device expires. The first barcode
message could be the price and the second barcode message could be interpreted as expired,
reject or don't sell. These barcodes could be of different sizes/thickness and also of different
formats. Instead of the barcode, it could be any code, pattern, message or image.
        Similarly, one can make a message disappear by selecting the color of the message
and expiration layer the same.
        Similarly, one can also make a portion of the final message disappear if printed on a
layer above the indicator layer which disappears when contacted with an activator and the
device expires.
                                                55

         In the above examples, the message is in words and barcode. However, the message
could be any, e.g., patterns and images. By combining words, barcodes, patterns and images,
it is possible to create essentially unlimited combinations of messages.
         The indicating devices of the present inventions don't require a color reference
charts/bars because the easily noticeable mirror like, opaque indicator disappears and a color
or any message printed underneath becomes visible. However, if desired, color reference
chart can be added/printed because the current device shows color changes from silvery/white
mirror like finish -- dull gray -- light gray -- clear/colorless (or color of the expiration
indicating, e.g., red). Hence, in order to match currently commercially available devices, one
can print color reference charts and instruction to read/interpret the devices. These types of
devices can offer best of both the self reading and color matching.
         Figure 8 shows a schematic presentation of some of basic preferred layers of the
device with (b) and without (a) a permeable layer. Though the basic device without the
permeable layer will provide an induction period, one can increase the induction period and
the time required for the transparency change by selecting a proper permeable layer 60 which
can be applied/coated on the indicator layer 30.
         Figure 9 shows expected plots of color development (color change or change in
transparency) versus time after the activation of the device with and without a permeable
layer. The length of induction period will depend on many parameters, including the nature,
permeability and thickness of the permeable layer. As shown in Figure 9, a device having a
more permeable and/or thinner permeable layer will provide shorter induction period
compared to that having thicker and/or less permeable layer. We have observed that by
selecting proper conditions, such as thickness of aluminum and permeable layers, the
induction period can be increased to over 90% or higher. We have also observed that a
thicker layer of aluminum makes the transparency change and the boundary in the case of the
moving boundary devices of Figures 10 much sharper.
         Because the time required for the indicator layer to disappear is short, the indicating
device having a less permeable layer (i.e., slow diffusion of the activator) will provide a
longer and sharper induction period and vice versa. Thus, this type of devices can provide a
better "go - no go" indicating device, which is especially required for many of the indicating
devices mentioned herein, e.g., time indicators (TI), such as visitors' passes.
         Figure 10 shows schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of the device having
a wedge shaped permeable layer at different stages after the activation of the device. If the
permeable layer is of uniform thickness, it will show the transparency change within a narrow
                                                 56

period. However, if the permeable layer is in form a wedge, as shown in Figure 10, the
transparency change will be continuous from thin end to the thick end of the permeable layer
and hence one can see a boundary created between the unreacted metal layer and the color of
the expiration indicating layer. The mechanism for creation of the moving boundary by the
wedge shaped permeable/barrier layer is explained in U.S. Patent No. 5,045,283 and is
incorporated herein as reference. If the expiration indicating layer is printed with numbers,
the numbers will start appearing from the thin to the thick end of the permeable layer. This
type of boundary will be sharper compared to the diffusion based prior art devices (e.g., two
tape moving boundary device of US Patent No. 5,045,283). The permeable layer material
could be any organic or inorganic material, however, a polymeric material, preferably
substantially amorphous is preferred. In the current case, a sharper moving boundary device
can also be created by using a wedge shaped indicator layer because the reaction occurs on
the surface of the device and has no matrix.
        Similarly, one can use a step wedge rather than continuous wedge. The step wedge
will provide a sequential, stepwise appearance of the number or any message.
        The material for the wedge shaped layer could be a destructible barrier layer as well.
        It is also possible to make an indicating device where photos, messages, images etc
appear, disappear, blurred, darkened or lightened by printing them below and above the
different layers of the device of Figure 3. An example to make visitors' badges is shown in
Figure 11 and results are shown in Figure 36. A photo of a visitor 501 can be printed (e.g., by
a printing method/equipment, such as laser, inkjet, dye-sublimation etc) on a clear indicator
substrate 40 having an indicator layer 30 (e.g., a metallized polyester film) and optionally a
permeable layer 60 on the indicator layer 30 as shown in Figure 11(a). This assembly
(indicator tape) is applied on to the activator tape having an opaque activator substrate 10 and
activator layer 20 composed of an activator matrix containing an activator (e.g., phosphoric
acid) to make the visitor's badge. Upon activation of the device, the photo 501 will appear as
shown in Figure 11(b) when viewed from the top of the badge and nothing will be visible
from the back because the opaque substrate 10 of the activator tape and the indicator layer are
opaque. Upon expiration of the badge, the indicator layer will disappear/become transparent
and the photo will appear red colored/blurred and another message as shown in Figure 11(c)
due to the colored background of the substrate 10. If the activator substrate is transparent, one
can see the photo from both the sides. If the activator substrate is printed with any other
message 502 (e.g., X in this case), the photo will be darkened with red background and "X"
will appear as shown in Figure 11(c). We made several devices with only "X", only red
                                                 57

background, "X" with red background, words such as "EXPIRED", "NOT VALID" and
"VALID" on the top and "NOT" in the back. The time required for the transparency change
in all of the above devices can be varied by varying the thickness, nature of the permeable
layer and/or other variables listed herein.
        Figure 12 shows schematic cross sectional views of indicating device having some
different layers (discontinuous in this case) at different locations and their combinations. The
discontinuous or continuous layer could be essentially in any form, shape and size including
an image, logo, sign, lines and grid of any color or message. If the device is a TI, e.g., a
visitor's badge, the indicating device may have a photo 500 printed on the top. The
discontinuous layer 68 could be under the photo or on the indicator substrate as shown in
Figures 12(a) and 12(b). The indicator layer itself could be discontinuous as shown in Figure
12(b) and 12(c). The discontinuous layer could be printed on the barrier layer as shown in
Figure 12(d) and on the activator substrate as shown in Figures 12(e) - 12(h). Many
combinations of these discontinuous layers are possible. The device could have more than
two discontinuous layers. Figure 12 also shows that the location/position of a layer can be
interchanged.
        The permeable layer of devices of Figures 11 and 12 is of uniform thickness. If the
permeable layer of the device is wedge shaped, the photo will gradually change color. A
demonstration of this moving boundary concept is shown in Figure 36. This type of devices
will warn the user and security personnel about the remaining time. The images, messages
and photos can be made of any visibility/opacity by selecting proper layers, colors and their
opacity. A photo or message can also be printed on the indicator layer.
        Above devices show a full coverage of the photo. One can also cover the photo
partially and/or in any direction. Similarly, one can make any message appear on the photo,
e.g., "CANCELED", "EXPIRED" etc.
        There are many variations of the devices. All one needs to do is vary the nature,
shape, size, format, color and position of different layers. For example, one can make a pre
printed ID and similar items, or portions thereof, slowly blurred or darkened if the indicator
layer becomes opaque or changes color from colorless or any color-A to any color-B. Yet
another way to cancel/expire a pre-printed ID and similar items is to cover the existing
images with the activated two-tape device. In this type of devices, the indicating device is
made by applying the activator tape (having an activator layer on a clear substrate on to the
indicator tape (having a wedge shaped permeable layer, an opaque indicator, and a PSA
layer, on a clear substrate. The activated indicating device is then applied on to an image or
                                                58

photo for a partial coverage. The activated tape will gradually become clear from the thin end
of the tape to the thick and the photo underneath will become gradually visible with time. The
coverage of the ID or similar devices with the activated indicating device could be in
direction. This type of activated indicating device tape could have a feature of tamper
indicator as described in our provisional patent application # 61/127,565 dated May 14, 2008
and is incorporated herein as a reference.
        This sudden and/or steady appearance, disappearance,            blurring, crossing out,
coloring.. etc, of an image, message, pattern and alike including the moving boundary are
novel for an indicating device and is a preferred embodiment of this invention.
        The indicator layer in the above devices could have varied opacity and colors. The
above described indicating device can have a tamper indicating layer, e.g., the adhesive layer
70 could have selected pattern of a silicone coating. If the indicating device is tampered, e.g.,
pulled, it will be evident. Thus, this invention can convert pre-printed ID and similar
objects/documents, into time dependant, self-expiring and also tamper indicating if required.
        These types of indicating devices, such as visitors' badges may have a fastener
attached to the device or a holder to hold the device.
        There is yet another way to create a moving boundary effect and devices associated
with it by making the indicator and or activator layer wedge shaped, i.e., thicker at one end
and thinner at the other. We made several moving boundary devices with wedge shaped
activator layer.
        Figure 13 shows two of the many band or foldable modifications of the current
device. The activator and indicator tapes can be attached or directly coated/applied at
different locations and sides on a substrate which is in form a strip or open band. For
example, Figure 13 shows the activator tape "A" and indicator tape "I" being on the same
side/surface of the band/substrate 15. The band 15 is folded around an object (not shown),
such as a perishable package or human wrist and the device is activated by applying the
activator tape on to the indicator tape as shown in Figure 13(b). Another example is shown in
Figure 13(c), where the activator tape 1 and indicator tape 2 are on the opposite sides/surfaces
of the band 15. The band 15 is folded around an object, such as a human wrist and the device
is activated by applying the activator tape on to the indicator tape as shown in Figure 13(d).
In order to see the color change of the resultant indicating device, at least one of the
substrates has to be transparent or the activator and/or indicator tape should be attached at the
end of band.
                                                59

        Figure 14 shows schematic cross sectional presentation of yet another modification of
a band or foldable indicating device having a major portion of the substrate covered with an
indicator layer, e.g., metallized plastic film before (a) and after folding/activation (b). This
type of device can be easily prepared, e.g., preferably by coating indicator layer on a portion
of one half of one side and activator layer on a portion of the other half of the other side. The
band is made by folding and applying the activator layer over the indicator layer. This type of
reflective bands can be easily noticed from a distance and can also be easily differentiated
when expired.
        In the devices of Figures 13 and 14 only a portion/end of the band is used to apply the
tapes. If the band is made from a piece of a metallized plastic film, one would not need an
indicator tape for the indicating device because the metal layer will act as an indicator. One
can make the device by applying an activator matrix having an activator on the other
side/surface of the band. This is one of the simpler ways to make a band indicating device.
This type of band indicating device made from a metallized plastic film offers another
advantage. When the metallized layer is dissolved by the activator, the band will
automatically delaminate or will be weakened, making it automatically non-usable. The band
could have a half portion metallized with aluminum layer and the remaining half with
activator/matrix. When activated, the band will cover the object, e.g., wrist and can be
visible/noticed from a distance because of the shiny nature of the aluminum layer. This type
of indicating device could also have a tamper indicator as well. A tamper indicating band can
be made by using the activator tape having selective coating of release barrier layer. The
release barrier layer is a material made from a non-stick coating, such as silicone which also
substantially prevents migration of the activator. An indicating device having this type of
release barrier layer will make the indicating device tamper indicating.
        A band can also be created by jointing activator and activator tapes at the ends. They
can be joined by many sealing methods, such as with an adhesive or by ultrasonic welding.
        All other features, such as different colors, messages, barcodes, images etc disclosed
herein can also be incorporated in the band indicating device.
        The indicator layer (aluminum) of the current device gets destroyed at the end of the
reaction. As a result the bonding between indicator substrate and permeable layer (if used) or
the adhesive of the activator layer gets destroyed and hence the indicating device loses its
integrity. This may be an advantage for certain applications where one wants to know the
expiration by de-lamination, e.g., visitor's badges or band. However, for the other
applications, the de-lamination or weakening of the integrity of the device may not be
                                               60

acceptable. Hence, in order to keep the indicating device attached to an object, the device
needs an outer layer having an adhesive e.g., PSA which is larger than the rest of the device.
There are many ways the indicating device can be made to remain its integrity even after the
expiration. For example, an indicating device having the activator tape being larger than the
indicator tape or an indicating device having an extra tape having an adhesive layer (a PSA
layer on a substrate). Yet another way is to use a partially metallized indicator layer, e.g., tiny
dots or lines of metallized layer rather than continuous metallized layer. The portion which is
not metallized will remain bonded even when the device expires. A much simpler way is to
keep to prevent de-lamination and maintain the integrity of the device is to coat a polymer
layer above and/or below the metal layer which becomes stronger PSA when connected with
the activator. Acids and bases can be used as tackifier. For example, we have found that
phosphoric acid is a tackifier for polyvinylether, such as polyvinylethylether. If one applies a
thin layer of a polyvinylether on or under the metal layer, the de-lamination will not occur
because when phosphoric acid contacts polyvinylether layer, it will make polyvinylether a
strong PSA, thereby preventing the de-lamination. Yet another way to prevent de-lamination
is to use a PSA for the activator layer which is very strong PSA and the activator is a tackifier
or a PSA which reacts with metal salts resulted from dissolution of aluminum layer.
        Additionally we have observed that the de-lamination of an activator in a PSA is not a
major problem because the metal layer is so thin (~100 Angstroms) that its dissolution makes
very little difference in bonding of the layers. Formation of metal salts may be helping in
retaining the bonding.
        A tamper indicating device can also be made by using the substrates made from a
destructible/breakable plastic, such as polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and cellulose
acetate. These and other tamper indicating materials and processes described in our
provisional patent application # 61/127,565 filed on May 14, 2008 can be used to make the
indicating device tamper indicating.
        There are many different ways the indicating device can be made by varying the
nature and location of different layers of Figure 3 or by adding extra layers as needed. One of
such ways is to have a mask layer, reaction preventing layer or etching mask over the
indicator layer. The words mask, mask layer, barrier layer reaction preventing layer or
etching mask are used interchangeably herein. An etching mask is a barrier layer made from a
material which significantly prevents diffusion of the activator and protects the indicator
layer from being attacked. The total area of the etching mask should be smaller than that of
the indicator layer.
                                               61

        Figure 15 shows schematic cross sectional (a) and top (b) views of the device having
an X-shaped etching mask 69 on the indicator layer 30 (1) when activated, (2) expired and (3)
expire device having red colored expiration indicating layer 40. When the device is activated,
the etching mask 69 will prevent diffusion of the activator, which is an etchant for the
aluminum layer in this case. The etching mask could be made preferably from a clear
polymeric material. When the indicating device having an etched masked printed in form of
"X" is activated, the impression of the mask will not be visible and the device will appear as
shown in Figure 15(lb). Upon expiration of the device, the area(s) not protected by the
mask/barrier will be etched away and become clear. As the activator/etchant will not diffuse
through the mask/barrier, the area under it will remain un-etched/un-reacted and hence a
pattern [e.g., X in Figure 15(2b)] will appear. If the device has a colored expiration indicating
layer, it will appear as shown in Figure 15(3b). Instead of printing X, one can print any
message, e.g., words, barcodes, patterns and images. By combining words, barcodes, patterns
and images, it is possible to create essential any combination of messages with the etching
mask. The etching mask, a reaction preventing layer is a kind of highly impermeable and
non-destructive layer which is a barrier for activator.
        Using an etching mask, permeable and no permeable layer, it is possible to vary the
time required for the transparency change from extremely long to very short.
        An etch mask 69 can be used in a fashion similar to the permeable layer 60 and hence
devices created by the permeable layer can also be created by the etch mask having properties
similar to that of permeable layer. The properties of the devices created the etch mask and
permeable layer will be essentially identical. It is also possible to monitor time lapsed after
the expiration of the device. The etchant/activator can diffuse under the mask and start
etching the indicator layer.
        Perishable manufacturers and other users of indicating devices are often not willing to
use small TTI and other indicating labels on individual units of perishables or other items for
many reasons, such as (1) special equipment and enormous quantity of properly sized TTI
stickers are required to apply at proper locations on the container, (2) loss of individual TTI
labels, tampering and liability are concerns, (3) cost of TTI labels and their application is
high, (4) consumers are not educated/trained to interpret TTIs, (5) returned and rejected
product are also concerns and (6) acceptable "Go-No go" type TTI were not available.
        However, perishable manufacturers likely to use a TTI on carton/box of perishables as
they want to make sure that the perishables are not thermally abused or stored for
unacceptably long period before they were put on store shelves. Additionally, the current TTI
                                                62

are too small to be noticed on large boxes. Boxes are typically sealed with a pressure
sensitive sealing tape. Boxes also have big labels to identify the product and manufacturer. If
the sealing tape or label themselves are TTIs, perishable manufactures/distributors are highly
likely to use sealing tape TTIs on each box because (1) no special equipment and large
quantity of properly sized TTI stickers are required, (2) no worry about loss of individual TTI
labels and tampering by consumer, (3) cost of this type of sealing tape TTI labels will be very
low per unit, (4) consumers need not to be educated/trained, (5) the TTI devices disclosed
here will be acceptable as they are self reading or have dramatic changes and (6) application
of labels and sealing tape don't require any additional manpower. The sealing tape and label
TTI serve essentially the same purpose but at a lower cost without unnecessary concerns.
        The current technology offers an opportunity to make sealing tape and label TTI.
Activator and indicator tapes dispensed from a double-tape/two-tape dispenser and applied on
a perishable box will seals the box and will also monitor shelf life. The person opening the
box will easily notice whether the perishable inside the box is of good quality or shelf life
expired.
        The current TTI tape does not need any special equipment for sealing boxes. Use of
TTI tape would not increase the cost to a level that perishable manufacturers/distributors will
not use. They would like to know that their product is of good quality before it goes on the
selves. It is also easy to train the employees loading perishables on the shelves rather than the
consumers. There is no real training required as the current TTI is either highly noticeable or
self reading.
        Tape dispensers are known in the art. Typically, a tape dispenser is comprised of a
system capable of retaining and dispensing a single roll of tape. The current two-tape
dispenser is a dispenser for holding two rolls (activator and indicator rolls), mechanism for
their lamination/activation and cutting laminated/activated tape of desired length. A powered
and automatic label applicator system for applying prior art two-tape labels/stickers of the
activator and indicator labels was developed by Avery Dennison for dispensing individual
TTI labels. However, this system peels the labels of indicator and activator tapes, aligns them
and applies on a container. The current dispenser does not require peeling of labels as there
are no labels and many other features of small labels.
        Figure 16 shows is a schematic cross sectional presentation of a basic double tape
dispenser for dispensing activated tape having some basic features. The dispenser, 300 is
composed of a housing system (frame structures) 340 with a door with hinges (not shown) to
open to load the rolls, close it and a pistol grip 320 type handle or base to fix the dispenser to
                                                 63

a production line. The dispenser also includes axles and tension controls (not shown) to hold
indicator and activator rolls/tapes 302 and 312 respectively, spools 304 and 314 to uptake
release layers (if used), lamination rollers 303 and 313, guide rollers 350, knife/cutter 330 to
cut the tapes and alike at proper locations in the housing. The dispenser could be powered,
especially to tape boxes on line. The powered dispenser could have motors, sensors, e.g.,
optical sensor and a computer (CPU) for proper dispensing of the tape and operation of the
dispenser.
        A small version of the hand held dispenser can be used by small users, such as at
homes, restaurants, food caterers and alike.
        With respect to the above disclosed sealing tape dispenser, it is to be understood by
one skilled in the art that one can vary the dimensions, materials, functions, operations,
assembly and use of the dispenser.
        Figure 17 shows a schematic presentation of sealing of a box 360 e.g., containing
perishables, with activated indicating device from a tape dispenser.
        In order to seal a perishable box 360 the user pulls the lead of the laminated/activated
sealing tape and applies to an object, such as a box as shown in Figure 17 and pulls the
dispenser or move the box and cut the desired length.
        Figure 18 shows a schematic presentation of a box sealed with an activated indicating
device (a) having an activator tape 1 over an indicator tape 2 and upon expiration of the
indicating device (b). It is not necessary to have an adhesive on the indicator tape. Indicator
could be smaller than the activator tape.
        A box can also be sealed with an activated indicating device having an indicator tape
over an activator tape.
        The activator and indicator tapes don't have to be of the same size. One tape could be
smaller or wider than the other. Preferred is the one tape being narrower than the other. The
objective is to seal the box with an activated TTI. Depending upon the design of the indicator
and activator tapes and loading in the dispenser, one can make activator tape over indicator
tape or vice versa. When the shelf life of the perishables expires, the indicator tape will
become transparent and message and color underneath will become visible.
        A box can be sealed with an indicator tape in form a large label and activated with an
activator tape.
        The sealing tapes and labels could have the many of those features of other indicating
device described earlier in this application, for example, other basic and optional layers to get
moving boundary, barcodes, numbers, patterns, colors, images and messages.
                                                64

        The smaller tape may or may not have an adhesive depending upon the tapes and box
to be sealed. One or both tapes could be tamper indicating.
        The activated sealing tape could be applied only on the top closers/flaps or whole box
and even crossing the previously applied activated sealing tape.
        One can apply one tape (e.g., activator tape) with one dispenser and the other
(indicator tape) with other dispenser.     There can be two stations, one for applications of
indicator tape and the other for the activator tape.
        The current system allows perishable manufacturers, warehouse managers and store
keepers properly rotate the boxes of perishables thereby minimizing the wastage of foods.
        If a bag of a perishable is made from metallized plastic film, the device can be made
just by applying an activator sealing tape.
        Instead of using the sealing TTI tape for sealing boxes, the sealing tape could also be
in form labels and applied on boxes as well. It is also possible to apply preprinted indicator
tape as labels on the boxes and activate the labels by applying an activator tape when filled
with perishables.
        One can also create almost all of the above devices and processes also if the activator
layer is substantially not mobile or migrating, e.g., a layer of polyacids (polyacrylic acid) or
polyamine (e.g., polyethyleneimine) and a thin indicator layer (e.g., a pH dye) having ability to
migrate and react with the non-mobile activator layer.
        The sealing tape indicating device, like other devices can be pre-activated and stored
cold till need to be applied. This can eliminate the need for a two-tape dispenser. Single
dispenser can then be used.
        There many different ways sealing tape indicating device can be made. Sealing tape
indicating device can have all the desired features of the TI and TTI. Figures 19-22 show
some cross sectional views of the different ways the sealing tape and many of the other
indicating device disclosed herein can be made. Figure 19 shows schematic cross sectional
views of indicating devices having some desirable features of TTI for different purposes on a
substrate 10 having activator layer 20 and conventional PSA 70 on the same side. Figures 19
22 also show different locations, shapes, color, messages of different layers such as indicator
layer 30, indicator substrate 40, expiration layer 50, permeable layer 60, PSA layer 70 for
adhering to an object and a message layer 61. Similarly, Figure 20 shows schematic cross
sectional views of sealing indicating devices having some desirable features of TTI for
different purposes on a conventional sealing tape. Though there are many ways to make
sealing tape indicating device, there are some more economical ways as shown in Figure 21.
                                                 65

Figure 21 shows some schematic cross sectional views of sealing tapes having some most
desirable features of TTI on a substrate, 10 having conventional adhesive layer 70 and
activator adhesive layer 20. It is not necessary to have the whole continuous sealing tape as
TTI tape. Figure 22 shows a schematic cross sectional view of a sealing tape having a couple
features of TTI applied on a conventional sealing tape.
        One can also make sterilization indicating devices, e.g., for ethylene oxide and
hydrogen peroxide by using precursor for the activator. For example, when sodium
thiocyanate is used as a precursor, it can produce activator like sodium hydroxide upon
exposure to ethylene oxide. Sodium hydroxide thus produced will etch the indicator, thin
aluminum layer or its fine particles. Similarly, if a precursor, such as tetrabutylammonium
bromide is used, it can produce an acid, such as hydrobromous acid when exposed to
hydrogen peroxide or its plasma. The acid will etch thin layer of aluminum or its fine
particles. Hydrogen peroxide itself can etch the aluminum layer.
        Using a strong resist/barrier layer which significantly prevents diffusion of the
etchant/activator and by printing some circuits, not only one creates a message but one can
create an electronic circuits, EAS and RFID devices. Top views of different steps of creating
such devices, e.g., a RDID are shown schematically in Figure 23. Electronic components, such
as a microchip 150 can be attached/soldered 151 at proper locations on an indicator/metal layer
30 as shown in Figures 23(a) - 23(c). Electronic components can be connected to the circuit or
antenna with a conductive paint or by soldering. The microchip 151 will be inactive (a kind of
sort circuited) and hence can't be read. A barrier/mask material in shape of an antenna 69 can
then be printed on the metal layer as shown in Figure 23(d). An activator tape is then applied
on to the whole metal layer as shown in Figure 23(e). The activator will etch the metal layer
leaving un-etched area under the mask in form of an antenna and the connecting the chip to the
antenna as shown in Figure 23(f). Creation of an antenna or circuit by this method is shown in
Figure 38. There are many different ways to create an RFID-indicating device and other
similar devices, such as antennae for RFID, printed circuit boards, EAS (electronic article
surveillance) devices and patterning in general. For example, one can use antenna pattern
activator tape or print such pattern with an activator. Thus, one can create an antenna and
circuit for a RFID and similar devices for monitoring the time, time-temperature, sterilization
and alike. It is likely that under-etching may occur. In order to prevent under-etching, one may
use an activator neutralizer layer (e.g., that containing a weak tertiary amine for phosphoric
acid) under the metal layer. If the area is large enough one can visually see the expired device
as well can be read with an RFID reader. An RFID device could also be in or on any of the
                                                66

indicating devices, such as time, time-temperature, freeze, thaw, sterilization indicating devices
mentioned herein.
         Figure 24 shows a RFID inlays 410 composed of an electronic chip 402 and an
antenna 401 without (a) and with (b) and (c) an activator tape 20 applied at different locations
on the antenna 401. Only central part of the antenna is shown. A RFID device with two RFID
inlays, one with and the other without an activator tape is shown in Figure 24(d). The
activator tape having sufficient quantity of an activator will etch the portion of the antenna
under it. Depending upon the location of the activator tape on antenna, the ability of the
inlay/chip to receive and transmit the RF signal will be reduced.
         Figure 25 shows RFID inlays of Figure 24 after etching portions of the antenna by the
activator tape. If the activator tape is applied near or on the RFID chip as shown in Figure
24(c), one of the most preferred location for application of the activator tape, RFID chip can
be completely disconnected from the antenna as shown in Figure 25(c) and make it
essentially inactive, ineffective and non-readable. In this case the antenna is an indicator.
Thus, when an activator tape which has ability to etch away the antenna is applied on the
antenna, the inlay becomes an indicating device, such as a TTI. If properly designed and
applied, one can make the RFID device inactive when the shelf life of the content inside a
box expires.
         Figure 26 shows schematic top views of a double inlay RFID-indicating device 410
(a) with an activator tape 1 applied on one RFID inlay (b) and after the inlay made non
readable (de-activated or disconnected) (c) upon etching of the antenna by the activator tape
1. This device 410 has two RFID inlays, each having its own antenna 401 and an electronic
chip 402. The device is activated by applying the activator tape 1 only on one inlay as shown
in Figure 26(b). The inlay with activator tape will become inactive and non-readable when
the antenna or a portion of it is etched away.
         Unprotected and those coated with an activator layer RFID inlays can also be used for
many other devices disclosed herein including monitoring sterilization, e.g., steam
sterilization. Steam and hot water have ability to dissolve aluminum. If the antenna is made
from an aluminum alloy which is more sensitive to water, the RFID can be made inactive
faster. In order to use a double RFID for monitoring sterilization, one of the antennae need to
be protected with a protective layer, such as a mask which will protect from water.
         The RFID devices can be activated prior or after applied on an object.
         It is also possible to make the indicating devices, such as TI, TTI and SI by using very
fine particles of a metal, such as aluminum and its alloys. In this case a mixture of metal
                                                  67

particles and an activator in an ink formulation can be coated on a substrate. The indicating
device thus made could have a protective layer or permeable layer and all other features of
TTI and indicating device described herein. This type of indicating device will require more
aggressive and/or higher concentration of the activator to be used for TI or TTI and high
temperature TTI or dry heat indicating device. This type of indicating devices are more
suitable for dry heat or steam sterilization indicating device.
        Figure 27 shows schematic cross sectional views of (a) an ink coating 9 with metal
particles 31 and a binder 100 (b) metal particles and an activator 1000 (c) partial reaction of
activator on metal particles and (d) complete destruction of the metal particles. It is not
necessary to dissolve the metal particles completely. For a given metal, finer particles will get
dissolved faster. Metal particles could be of any shape and have naturally formed (e.g., oxide)
layer and/or an applied protective coating.
        The devices based on Figure 27 can also contain an indicator for the metal cation.
Upon reaction of a metal with an activator, a metal cation/salt will be produced. The metal
cation thus produced can react with an indicator providing an intermediate color and the final
color of the indicator. When an activator, e.g., phosphoric acid reacts with a metal, such as
aluminum, it will produce a metal salt, e.g., aluminum phosphate. An indicator which reacts
with aluminum cation (e.g., Al 3) can be added to monitor or detect the reaction.
        Particles having an ultrathin coating of metal, e.g., a thin layer of copper on iron
particles which can be obtained for example by dipping iron particles in copper solution can
also be used and some preferred for the transparency change for the indicating devices, such
as sterilization (e.g., steam, ethylene oxide, plasma etc). These metal coated particles will
undergo transparency change similar to metallized plastic film, e.g., copper coated particles
of can undergo a red to the color of the substrate particle on which copper was coated. Thin
coating can be obtained by many other different ways.
        In order to make the indicating devices activatable on demand, one can use
microencapsulated activator and/or indicator. Figure 28 shows a schematic cross sectional
presentation of a method [Figures 28(a) - 28(c)] of making a thermally activatable indicating
device having a layer of thermally activatable microencapsulated activator on a metal layer
and different stages [Figure 28(d) - 28(f)] of the device after activation. The device can be
created by applying a layer of microencapsulated activator 201 (e.g., phosphoric acid or its
solution) which can be ruptured e.g., by application of heat or pressure on a metal layer 30 on
a substrate 40 [as shown in Figure 28(a) and 28(b)]. The device can have other layers, such
as an adhesive layer with a release linear on the back (not shown). A protective coat 101 can
                                                 68

be applied on the microcapsules as shown in Figure 28(c). Using a thermal printer, one can
print a message or image (or write with a blunt object/pen) as shown in Figure 28(d). The
microcapsules will rupture 202 and release the activator/phosphoric acid. An image will
appear. The device can be applied on to an object or person by removing the release liner
from the back. The released activator/phosphoric acid will etch 203 the metal layer as shown
in Figure 28(e). When the metal is completely etched 204 the printed message and/or color
printed underneath will appear as shown in Figure 28(f). Many variations of this and many
similar devices disclosed herein are possible, e.g., by varying the nature of the layers,
applying additional layers and by changing locations of the layers.
        Figure 29 shows a schematic presentation of an online thermally activatable
indicating device as shown in Figure 29(a) having a layer of thermally activatable
microencapsulated activator 201 on a metal layer 30 on one side and conventional thermally
printable layer 2001 on the other side of a substrate 40 and appearance after activation
[Figure 29(b)] and upon expiration [Figures 29(c) and (d)]. The device of Figure 29(a) can be
made by applying a thermally activatable layer 2001 on the plastic side of a metallized plastic
film and by applying microencapsulated activator layer 201 on the metal layer 30. Desired
messages can be printed on both the sides of the device [Figure 29(b)]. When viewed from
the top only one message 501 (e.g., FRESH) can be seen. Upon activation, the activator will
etch the metal layer. Upon expiration, the message 502 printed on the metal (e.g., NOT) can
be seen from the top and one can see the full message (NOT FRESH) as shown schematically
in [Figures 29(c). A proper color layer can be applied on the back if a color is also desired
upon expiration [Figures 29(d)].
        There are many different ways to make thermally activatable indicating devices. For
example, a time indicating device as visitor's badge can be created by a method shown
schematically in Figure 30. The device can be made by applying a pressure sensitive adhesive
containing an activator 20 (e.g., phosphoric acid) on one half of the metal layer 30 and
thermally activatable layer 2001 on a substrate 40 [Figure 30(a)]. A release liner 80 is applied
on the activator layer 20 [Figure 30(b)]. Activator 20 will dissolve the metal layer 30
underneath and make activator portion of the metallized plastic film clear [Figure 30(b)]. A
message 500 (e.g., expired or a photo of a visitor depending upon the application) can be
printed on the back of the substrate 40 having a thermally activatable layer 2001 [Figure
30(c)]. The release liner 80 from the activator layer is removed and the device is folded in the
middle [Figure 30(d)]. The message 500 will be on the top of the activated device. When the
                                               69

device expires (metal layer will get dissolved), a color and/or a printed message, e.g., red
color, "X", "Not Valid" etc can appear under the message/photo [Figure 30(e)].
        Figure 31 shows a cross sectional schematic presentation of some examples of the
different ways microencapsulated activator, indicator and an additive can be applied on an
indicator layer. The metal layer may have only one layer of microencapsulated activator 201
[Figure 31(a)], a layer of microencapsulated activator and direct thermal printable materials
211 [Figure 31(b)], a layer of microencapsulated activator, direct thermal printable materials
and an additive 212 [Figure 31(c)], a layer of mixture of microencapsulated activator, direct
thermal printable materials       and an additive    [Figure31(d)],    a layer of mixture    of
microencapsulated activator and an additive [Figure 31(e)] and a layer of mixture of
microencapsulated activator and direct thermal printable materials [Figure 31(f)]. When
metal particles are used as an activator, there is no need for a metal layer 30. In such case,
these layers can have metal particles on substrate 40 or mixed with the other encapsulated
materials.
        There are a number of other ways an indicating device can be made using a
microencapsulated layer. An example of use of a microencapsulated layer, e.g., an activator
tape (a substrate having a coating of microencapsulated activator) to make an indicating
device is shown in Figure 32. An activator can be applied on a RFID inlay as shown in
Figures 32(al) and 32(bl). The device can be activated by rupturing the microcapsules,
Figure 32(a2) and 32(b2). Released activator will etch the antenna and make the readable
RFID, non-readable, Figure 32(a3) and 32(b3). Similarly many other indicating devices can
also be made.
        Figure 33 shows a TTI device showing a message "FRESH" during the induction
period and "ness not guarunteed" and a barcode appearing after the induction period (see
Example 7 for detail for this indicating device).
        Figure 34 shows a moving boundary indicating device having a wedge shaped
permeable barrier annealed for different periods of time at 550 C (see Example 8 for detail for
this indicating device).
        Figure 35 shows a box sealed with an indicating sealing tape upon activation (a) and
upon expiration (b) (see Example 10 for detail for this indicating device).
        Figure 36 shows a visitor's badge having a wedge shaped permeable layer between
the indicator and activator layers annealed for different periods of time at 55 0C (see Example
11 for detail for this indicating device).
                                               70

         Figure 37 shows an activated RFID-indicating device inlay annealed for different
periods of time at 25 0 C (see Example 15 for detail for this indicating device).
         Figure 38 shows two pieces (bottom piece is upside down) of metallized polyester
film printed with an antenna on indicator (a) and after storing at room temperature for 3 days
(b) (see Example 16-B for detail for this indicating device).
         Figure 39 shows a plot of percent transparency of an indicating device with time at
25 0 C. As can be seen from the Figure the device has a long induction period (see Example 17
for detail for this indicating device).
         Figure 40 shows a steam sterilization indicating device made from an aluminum
(powder) ink and varied concentration of sodium acetate treated under different conditions
(see Example 26 for detail for this indicating device). An aluminum ink formulation
containing varied amount of sodium acetate were coated on a clear polyester film and dried.
Strips of the coating were treated with different conditions. As can be seen from Figure 40,
the device changes color (becomes transparent) only when proper sterilization conditions are
met and does not change under other conditions.
         Figure 41 shows an example of a moving boundary steam sterilization indicating
device treated with steam for different time at 120 0 C (see Example 27 for detail for this
indicating device). The rate of movement of the boundary can be controlled by many
parameters such as the nature and thickness of the permeable wedge layer and activator. A
polyurethane layer is more permeable than a polyacrylic layer.
         Figure 42 shows a hydrogen peroxide sterilization indicating device made from
aluminum ink and tetrabutylammonium bromide under different treatment conditions (see
Example 28 for detail for this indicating device). The device is very selective to hydrogen
peroxide. The devices can be used for monitoring sterilization with hydrogen peroxide
plasma. Tetrabutyl ammonium bromide and other bromides, such as potassium bromide, most
likely produce hydrobromous acid which etch the metal particles and hence selective to
hydrogen bromide.
         Figure 43 shows samples of an ethylene oxide sterilization indicating device made
from aluminum ink and sodium thiocyanate treated under different conditions (see Example
29 for detail for this indicating device). Activators, such as sodium thiocyanate produce most
likely produce sodium hydroxide when reacted with ethylene oxide. Sodium hydroxide etches
the metal particles and the device becomes transparent.
                                                71

        Figure 44 shows plots of time required for phosphoric acid to make an aluminum
layer of about 125 Angstroms to become almost transparent and that for completely
transparent versus its concentration (see Example 33 for detail for this indicating device).
        It is also possible to create more than one indicating devices on one indicator/metal
layer, substrate or object. For example, one can apply activator tapes of (1) temperature and
time-temperature, (2) temperature, time-temperature and radiation, (3) freeze and time
temperature and (4) thaw and time-temperature indicating devices. They can be designed to
operate at the same or different time or under different conditions.
         Some of the concepts disclosed herein were demonstrated using examples of an
indicator substrate having a metal layer only on one side and similarly using an activator
substrate having an activator layer only on one side. However, in many instances, e.g.,
making of EAS device, one can use an indicator substrate having metal coating on both sides
and the metal coating could be of the same or different thicknesses and the same or different
metals or metal alloys. Similarly, one can also use an activator substrate having activator
coating on both sides and laminated/activated with metal indicator on each side. The activator
coating could be of the same or different thicknesses and the same or different activators. One
can also prepare the devices where an activator layer is sandwiched between two metal layers
and an indicator/metal layer sandwiched between two activator layers.
        One can make a multi-layer devices, e.g., metal-layerl / permeable-substrate1 /
message- layer / metal-layer2 / permeable-substrate2 / message-layer2.....and so.
        One or more layers, especially the top layer of the said devices could be permeable or
porous so an activator, agent or their vapors can pass through. The porous or permeable layer
(not shown in the Figures) could be selective to particular activator, so it will let only that or
similar classes of activators pass through. Cellulosic paper, cloth, synthetic paper and
selective membranes can be used. This porous/selective layer could be transparent or opaque.
        As the device has a very thin aluminum layer, lots of information can be written
similar to that on a CD (compact disc) and read like a CD. Thus, each device can have its
own ID and information.
        Though may not be required but for additional security and information, one can also
print e.g., how to use, interpret, warnings, notices, ID, color reference charts etc either on the
device or on the side of the device.
        The devices disclosed herein can be used upside down with appropriate changes.
        All these devices of the present invention could also be made tamper indicating
according to materials and methods disclosed in our provisional patent application #
                                                72

61/127,565 filed on May 14, 2008. For example, the indicating device could have one or
more tamper indicator layers or made from tamper indicating materials. If the device is
tampered or the integrity of the device is destroyed, a message, such as "VOID" or
"TAMPERED" will appear.
        As many of the indicating devices disclosed herein have two pressure sensitive
adhesive layers, one containing activator and the other to apply to a substrate, one can also
use tamper or void indicator for each.
        All devices disclosed here has one or more layers. Though not stated so, each layer
has two surface and they could be continuous or discontinuous, uniform or non-uniform or
smooth or uneven. Printed images, messages and alike are also considers as layers or indicia.
        The visually noticeable indication can include latent indicia which initially are not
visible and become visible or noticeable and indicia which are initially noticeable and
become invisible, obscure or can be seen, noticed or machine read under different conditions,
such as under UV light.
        The activator, indicator and the devices could be essentially in any common shape and
size, including inks, paints, crayons and gels. They also could be in form pen, aerosol can and
stick. The indicator layer could be in form of a very thin layer, e.g., prepared by vacuum
evaporation or by a coating of inks/paints having fine particles of a metal.
         Some of the indicating devices can be made by applying an activator coating from a
molten mixture of an activator and a binder on an indicator surface and rapidly cooling the
mixture so there is a little effect on the indicator layer. Similarly, the indicating devices can
be made by applying a mixture of molten binder containing an activator and fine particles of
a metal, preferably supplied separately, rapidly mixed, coating the mixture on a substrate and
cooled rapidly or binder cured by a cross-linker or radiation.
        Light sources and mirrors which reflect light usually draw our attention much faster
than any other object. Due to the highly reflective (mirror like) nature of the aluminum
coating, indicating device using a metallized plastic film as an indicator will draw our
attention and be easily noticed. However, metallized plastic films are usually flat. They will
reflect light depending upon shape of the indicating device and the angle of incidence of the
light. The indicating device having flat metallized surface can be noticed only from certain
angles depending upon the location of the light source, indicating device and the viewer. If
the surface of the indicator is uniformly uneven which would reflect light in all directions,
then it can be easily noticed from any angle. For example, an embossed, e.g., having a cone,
wavy or pyramidal shaped metallized plastic film will reflect light in all directions and the
                                                73

indicating device can be easily noticed. If a plastic surface having a mat finish is metallized,
it will be more reflective in all directions. Such films are more desirable for the indicating
device. Similarly, metallized plastic films having holograms also can be used and will be
easily noticed and can be used for security. As the device has a reflective surface it can be
read even in low light of night.
        It is also possible to create different classes of sterilization indicating devices. Moving
boundary devices can be used as multi-class indicating devices.
        We have demonstrated with a number of materials, devices and processes that in
essence, the current inventions can be used to improve performance of a large number of the
prior art indicating devices (mentioned herein or not) by many different ways, for examples,
1) replacing their coloring/developing materials such as dyes, pigments or other reactants (so
called indicators in the prior art) which are affected by the types of activators/precursors
disclosed herein with a thin layer of metal or fine particles of a metal, 2) where an activator
disclosed herein can be used for etching of a thin layer of metal or fine particles of metal, and
3) by applying a destructible barrier or permeable layer. Inventions disclosed herein can be
combined with prior art compositions, processes and devices to make best of the both
technologies.
        The above and those disclosed herein are some common examples of possible
variations, alterations, modifications and options of the materials, devices and processes. By
permutation - combination, it is possible to have a very large number of variations,
modifications and options for the devices and processes, e.g., by changing properties of
components, position of a layer, multiplicity of a layer, adding an extra layer, changing color,
opacity and a reflectivity of a layer, adding image/message, by varying the size and shape of
a layer or the device, varying nature of the materials, applying the concepts to prior art
devices and many other parameters including those mentioned in this application.
        COMPARISON OF THE PRIOR ART AND CURRENT INVENTIONS:
        The current indicating devices on the first glance may appear to be somewhat similar
to that of the prior art two-tape and other similar devices and processes. However, the current
devices are not only significantly different but very innovative, novel, unique and differ in
many ways from the devices of the prior art and hence offer most of the desired properties
and many advantages over the prior art devices. Some of the unique and novel features of the
current devices are not possible with the prior art devices.
                                                  74

        There are only a few common similar features between devices of the prior art and
current invention. For example, the devices of prior art and current invention have an
activator tape composed of a substrate having a matrix containing an activator. Both the
devices have an indicator substrate and an option of using a permeable layer for introduction
an induction period, if desired. The following processes are also the same: (1) making the
activator tape, i.e., by coating a matrix containing an activator on an activator substrate and
(2) activation of the devices, i.e., by applying the activator tape on to the indicator tape. This
is where significant similarities between the prior art and the current devices and processes
end.
        A number of dyes and pigments, depending upon the activator, can be used for the
prior art devices. The pigments and dyes change colors but don't get destroyed. A very thin
coating of a metal, e.g., aluminum is used as an indicator for the current devices. The metal
layer is completely and irreversibly destroyed at the end of the reaction. The metal layer can't
be recreated. In the prior art devices, the color change can be reversed, e.g., by changing the
pH.
        A typical thickness of color/indicator layer in the prior art ranges from 2.5 - 50
microns. For example, the thinnest coating of an indicator layer in a time indicating device
disclosed by Hass et al in US Patent No. 5,930,206 is ~2.5 microns thick ink dots and an
opaque layer of ~12 microns. The thickness range of the indicator layer in a foldable two-tape
device disclosed by Ko et al in U.S. Pat. No. 7,294,379 is 2 - 20 gsm (gram per square
meter), i.e., 2.5 -50 microns thick.
        The typical thickness of the aluminum layer of the current devices is only 0.0001
0.0005 mil (15-150 Angstroms), about a thousand times thinner than the thinnest coating of
the prior art devices and still provides higher opacity as metals are the most opaque
substances. At optical density of 2 (average thickness of ~100 Angstroms), the metallized
polyester blocks ~99% of the ambient light (Scharr Industries, figure 2.3a of Mount III,
Eldridge M., editor, AIMCAL Metallizing Committee Metallizing Technical Reference, 3rd
ed., the Association of Industrial Metallizers, Coaters and Laminators, March 2001). When
the coating of the indicator layer is about a thousand times thinner, the quantity of activator
required will also be significantly lower.
        Typically the reaction products, e.g., aluminum phosphate are opaque. However,
because of the thinness (-100 Angstroms), the layer is essentially transparent.
        The concentration of the indicator/metal layer in the current invention is 100%. The
concentration range of the indicator/dye/pigment in the prior art devices is usually less than
                                                75

5%. For example, the concentration of an indicating dye in a two-tape device of Ko et al in
U.S. Pat. No. 7,294,379 was about 0.4% to about 2% by weight.
        Most of the metals and their alloys form a protective layer, typically an oxide layer to
protect their exposed surfaces from further oxidation. This naturally formed oxide layer acts
as a barrier or permeable layer for the activator and hence there is a delayed effect. In the
prior art, one needs to apply a barrier/permeable layer. The protective coat can be naturally
formed including other than oxides, e.g., carbonate, sulfate and halide or applied for
protecting the metals or their alloys.
        The indicator tape in the prior art is made by coating a matrix, usually polymeric,
containing an indicator, usually a dye or a pigment on an indicator substrate. One major and
unique difference is that the indicator tape of the current invention does not have a matrix and
does not need one. The indicator tape of the current invention is made by applying a layer of
an indicator directly on a substrate, i.e., by depositing a metal layer on a plastic film.
        In order to introduce an induction period for the time required for the color change,
the prior art devices require a neutralizer in the indicator layer. The current devices neither
need nor can a neutralizer be added in to the indicator layer for introduction of the induction
period. The indicator layer itself provides an induction period as the reaction occurs only at
the surface of the indicator.
        The indicator layer of the current invention is nearly 100% opaque. Anything behind
it can't be seen. When the metal layer is destroyed, the indicator layer becomes essentially
transparent. Any color, design, image and message printed under the metal layer become
visible. This will indicate expiration of the device. The prior art devices don't disclose
materials, layers and methods of getting essentially unlimited colors, designs, images and
messages. One can obtain essentially any color, design, image and message including a
barcode, number and photo, symbols by simple means, e.g., by printing them under the metal
layer of the current invention.
        The color changes in the prior art devices are gradual and non-linear (rapid in the
beginning and slow at the end). The indicator layer of current invention undergoes a change
in transparency and the change is very abrupt as shown schematically in Figures 2 and 9 and
demonstrated in Figures 33 and 39 which is essentially completely opposite.
        The prior art devices require a color reference chart to indicate the expiration because
they don't have true end point. The devices of this invention have a true end point. The prior
art devices also require a note on the devices to explain how to read or interpret the color
change. The reason is that the color changes in the commercially available devices and those
                                                 76

report in the prior art are not dramatic and almost impossible to get a change from
colorless/clear -> opaque or vice versa. The current devices do not require any color
reference chart. They are self-reading, self explanatory and self instructing. Thus, the devices
of the current invention are significantly superior and unique in providing clear required
messages with little no further instructions. They also provide the most desired messages of
go/no-go type as shown schematically in Figures 5-7 and demonstrated in Figures 33-36.
         Patel et al in US Patent No. 3,999,946 has reported a TTI device based on the solid
state polymerization of a diacetylene (2,4-hexadiyne-1,6-diol-bis-p-toluene sulfonate which
happens to be toxic) having an induction period of polymerization. Other prior art devices
require a permeable layer or a neutralizer for the activator in the indicator matrix for the
induction period. The current invention has an induction period of its own without the use of
a permeable layer or a neutralizer. The message behind the metal layer does not become
visible until the metal layer is destroyed, thereby the current devices provide an induction
period. This makes the current devices more suitable for monitoring usable period.
         As the reaction in the prior art devices is asymptotic, a typical uncertainty in
expiration time of prior art devices is about +20%. Because of the induction period, the
typical uncertainty in expiration time of the devices current invention is better 5% and can be
better than a fraction of percent (For example, see Example 33 and Figure 44) if thicker
coating of metal is used. At the time of determination of the end point or expiration of the
devices, the reaction is the typically slowest, for example see of plot (a) of Figure 2 in the
area marked as "end point determination zone" for the prior art devices. While the noticeable
rate is the maximum and the maximum change occurs at the time of expiration for the current
invention, see plot (b) of Figure 2 in the area marked as "end point determination zone".
         As the conductivity is expected to change from 106 to 10-6 S/cm, these devices will be
highly sensitive.
         Asymptotic reactions of the prior devices keep on going for a very long time (in
principle for ever), even after so called expiration of the devices. The reaction ends
completely (100%) in the case of devices of the current invention.
         Aluminum, with its protective oxide layer is environmentally highly stable metal.
Metallized plastic films, especially those having a layer of aluminum are widely used and
stable for a number of years under normal ambient conditions. Thus, the indicator tape made
from metallized plastic film is environmentally stable and can be stored for years. This makes
the current devices tamper resistant and least likely to provide false signals. The container
labels or time tickets with indicator sticker (i.e., metallized plastic film) can be pre-made,
                                                77

stored for long time, even after applying on the container. The indicator is then activated by
applying the activator tape when the container is filled with the perishable. Similarly, time
indicating devices can also be made and activated when issued to a visitor.
        Aluminum is approved by the US FDA for direct contact with food as we use
aluminum foils and aluminum pans to cook the food.
        The prior art devices are based on diffusion of an activator or dye through a matrix,
usually that of the indicator matrix. The devices of current invention do not have the indicator
matrix and the reaction is not based on diffusion. The color change of the current devices is
due to the etching reaction and hence destruction of the metallic indicator by an activator.
The indicator layer being impermeable, the reaction occurs only on the surface, i.e.,
heterogeneous reaction.
        The reaction between the activator and the indicator in the prior art devices is
homogeneous and inside a matrix while in the current devices it is heterogeneous, i.e., the
liquid activator reacts with a solid indicator (aluminum) on the surface. The reaction between
the metal layer and acids produce a tiny quantity of hydrogen gas, especially if acids are used
as activators. Production of hydrogen gas is a uniqueness of the current devices. However,
hydrogen gas produced is very little because the metal layer is only ~100 Angstroms thick
and hence it is not a concern about production of an explosive mixture with oxygen.
Hydrogen being the smallest molecule diffuses through the plastic films of the devices.
        All indicating devices, including time and time-temperature, reported in the literature
and used in the field have a binder to hold the coloring materials in the layer and to bond it
with other surfaces including the substrate. No layer is destroyed in the prior art devices. The
color changing reaction in the prior art devices occurs between the activator and indicator in a
matrix/binder which maintains integrity of the devices at all times.
        Aluminum layer in the current devices is bonded to a plastic film without any binder.
The metal layer does not have any binder. Metal atoms have the property to bond strongly to
themselves. In the current case, the metal layer which bonds with an adhesive of activator
tape or with a permeable layer is destroyed and the bonding between the activator tape and
indicator tape/substrate is lost unless special bonding materials are used to prevent de
lamination.
        Because aluminum layer has no binder/matrix and because it is non-porous and non
permeable layer, the activator can't diffuse through. It is very difficult even for hydrogen gas
(the smallest molecule) to diffuse through the aluminum layer. The reaction between the
activator and the metal occurs only on the surface of the metal layer.
                                                78

        Though the above description points out some of the novelties of the current
inventions and major differences between the current invention and the prior art for
indicating devices (e.g., time and time-temperature indicators, especially sticker type
indicating devices), there are many other novelties of the current inventions and differences
between the current invention and the prior art for all other devices, e.g., sterilization
indicating devices (e.g., steam, dry heat, plasma and ethylene oxide), humidity indicating
devices,   microwave     doneness   indicating   devices,    defrost/thaw  indicating   devices,
temperature indicating devices, self-heating food indicating devices, electronic circuitry, EAS
systems, patterning, RFID and similar devices, and processes associated with them. Many of
these novelties and differences are disclosed and/or will become apparent from the other
disclosures herein.
                                   PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
        A material which is metallic in nature and has properties as defined earlier can be
used can be used as an indicator for one or more of the devices of the present
inventions/system.
        The terms metal, metal like, metallic and having properties of metal are used
interchangeably herein for the indicators of the devices of the system.
        Indicators could have a co-indicator. Co-indicator could be a moderator/modulator. It
could increase or decrease the effect of an indicator as desired. Sometimes two indicators can
have synergistic effect while the other could reduce the effectiveness. Addition of a co-metal,
such as indium in aluminum can increase the sensitivity of aluminum to water while addition
of aluminum and/or tin in copper and zinc could reduce reactivity of copper and zinc. A non
metallic impurity, such as carbon and sulfur can be used as a co-indicator or additive.
Crystallinity and amorphousness of the metal layer can also affect their reactivity with an
activator. Addition of impurity which makes the metal layer more susceptible to activator can
be used as a co-indicator. The terms, alloys, co-indicator, moderator and modulators are used
interchangeably herein.
        Materials which can be easily noticeable from distance, capable of being produced by
vacuum evaporation or sublimation, environmentally stable, requiring no binder or matrix,
substantially non-porous,    substantially impermeable,      self colored, being    capable of
irreversibly destroyed by an activator, thinner than 25 microns, non-migrating, self binding,
                                               79

capable of binding to a substrate without a binder, polymeric, capable of reacting on the
surface only and being capable of producing a message or image can also be used as
indicators and are preferred indicators.
        The most preferred material for the indicator is a metal or an alloy, especially a thin
layer, in form of a thin foil or coated on a substrate, such as a metallized plastic film. Most
preferred metals or alloys are those which are attacked by non-toxic or non-hazardous
materials such as food additives and nutrients. Low melting metals, bronzes and alloys are
also preferred. Alkali, alkaline earth, transition metals, post transition metal, lanthanoid and
actinoid metals and their alloys can be used as indicators. Aluminum, tin, zinc, copper,
manganese, magnesium, nickel, cobalt, iron, sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, gallium,
cesium, germanium, indium and their alloys are preferred metals. Aluminum and its alloys
are the most preferred materials for the indicating devices, especially coated on a plastic film,
such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polyester, nylon, polyvinyl chloride, polystyrene,
cellulose acetate and their copolymers.
        Alloys of many metals can be used as indicators for the present invention. Alloys of
aluminum with magnesium, lithium, gallium etc are more sensitive to water and also to acids,
bases, oxidizing agent and salts. Alloys of aluminum may accelerate or retard the reaction.
Depending upon the application, the present invention needs a metal layer which is more and
as well as less sensitive than pure aluminum layer. An alloy of more than one metal, such as
that of aluminum-magnesium-copper can also be used. Alloys of aluminum are described in
many books, e.g., "Aluminum and aluminum alloys", Joseph R. Davis, J. R. Davis &
Associates, ASM International, Materials Park, OH, 1993 and many of them could be used to
make the indicator.
        Though metals which produce colored compounds can be used, the most preferred
metals are those which produce colorless or white salts when reacted with activators. They
include metals like aluminum, zinc, magnesium and tin. Aluminum is preferred over other
metals for several reasons, such as aluminum and most of its compounds are nontoxic. Most
of the compounds of aluminum are white or transparent. It is also relatively very
reactive/susceptible metal and still stable under normal ambient conditions because of
formation of a protective oxide layer. It is a very light metal of density 2.7 g/cc compared to
lead (who salts are used as steam sterilization indicating devices) which has density of 11.3
g/cc. Hence, per pound, aluminum provides higher coverage and settlement in the ink is less.
Inks containing aluminum particles and plastic films coated with aluminum are readily
available.
                                                 80

         A variety of aluminum bronzes of differing compositions have found industrial uses,
with most ranging from 5% to 11% aluminum by weight, the remaining mass being copper or
other alloying agents, such as iron, nickel and silicon. Aluminum and other bronzes, such as
copper-zinc can be used as indicators.
         Aluminum is well known for its large negative free energy for the formation of its
oxide. Hence, aluminum has the thermodynamic ability to split water. Metals with large
negative free energy are preferred as indicators.
         Aluminum is coated on plastic films from its vapor under vacuum. A very thin, e.g.,
10 Angstroms to several microns thick coating of aluminum can be obtained by this vacuum
deposition method. A preferred method of producing an indicator layer and also a destructible
barrier layer is a vacuum deposition, vacuum evaporation and sputtering.
         When a metal object, such as a metal container is used as an indicator, the activator
can be sprayed, coated, printed or applied in form of a tape on the metal object.
         Use of a metal layer as an indicator offers another advantage of creating security
features and devices if needed. Holograms created on an aluminum layer are widely used for
security and as tamper indicating device. Aluminum layer with holograms can be used to
make high security and/or temper indicating devices of the current invention. A metal layer
can be applied on anon-metallic holograms for a high security feature.
         One can use more than one layer of different metals, e.g., of different colors or
reactivities, e.g., aluminum (white and more reactive), copper (red) and gold (yellow and
significantly less reactive) or alloys (e.g., brass and bronzes). These layers may be separated
by a layer of different nature. In this case a metal layer can act as a destructible barrier layer.
         Certain indicating devices, such as a time-temperature indicating device based on
polymerization of diacetylenes available from Temptime, Morris plain, NJ require a red color
filter to protect the device from ambient light. In contrast, metallized plastic films are so
stable to almost all kind of normal environment that they are used to protect a wide variety of
materials including perishables from ambient environment. Thus indicating devices made
from metallized plastic film will be highly environmentally stable.
         It is also important that the indicating devices be easily noted by the users. Reflecting
surface is easy to notice than any other surface or color. Hence, possibility of a consumer or
store keeper not noticing the device is less. Similarly, a visitor's pass can be easily noted
from a distance.
         Similarly, fine (e.g., 1 - 100 microns) particles flat or round, of metals, such as that of
aluminum, copper, zinc and their alloys dispersed in a binder can also be used as an indicator
                                                  81

layer. The reaction will still be heterogeneous and the induction period will be even longer.
This indicating layer will maintain the integrity of the device even upon the expiration.
        Indicator can also be microencapsulated. Most of the metals have a naturally formed
oxide layer but metal particles can be coated with inorganic and organic, especially polymeric
materials.
        Materials whose thin layers provide a very intense color or opacity and undergo a
substantial change in color or transparency with an activator can also be used as indicators.
They include materials, such as polymeric dyes, polydiacetylenes and sublimed dyes. This
type indicator may have a destructible barrier layer so one can have a longer and sharper
induction period.
        A colorless resist can be printed in form of a message. The resist printed area of the
indicator will remain unreacted thereby creating a message. The area of aluminum exposed to
activator will disappear first and may be followed by a very slow disappearance of the whole
layer due to under etching.
        Metal bonds are different from covalent and ionic bonds. Metal atoms possess strong
bonds. In metals electrons can move freely in all directions which make them good conductor
of heat and electricity. Metal bonds can be considered as positive ions in a sea of electrons.
Most metals and their alloys are solid. Metals could be crystalline as well as amorphous.
        Copper and its alloys are also preferred indicator because copper and brass objects
disinfect themselves of many bacteria within a period of eight hours including MRS,
Escherichia coli and other pathogens. Antimicrobial metals are preferred indicators.
        Metals (especially transition metal and their alloys), their salts and complexes are
widely used as catalysts for a variety of reactions. Metallized plastic films (including
naturally formed metal oxide or complexes specifically synthesized on the surface) can be
used as an indicator for monitoring those reactions.
         Semimetals and semiconductors         are elements, alloys and compounds           having
conductivity between that of a conductor (e.g., 63      x  106  S/cm for silver) and an insulator
(e.g., below 10-6 for plastics). A semimetal is material with a small overlap in the energy of
the conduction band and valence bands. In a metallic conductor, current is carried by the flow
of electrons. In semiconductors, current can be carried either by the flow of electrons or by
the flow of positively-charged "holes" in the electron structure of the material. The
conductivity of a semiconductor material can be varied under an external electrical field.
Semiconductor devices include the transistor, many kinds of diodes including the light
emitting diode, the silicon controlled rectifier, and digital and analog integrated circuits. Solar
                                                 82

photovoltaic panels are large semiconductor devices that directly convert light energy into
electrical energy. Examples of semi-conducting materials are silicone, germanium, gallium
arsenide and silicon carbide. A semiconductor can be "intrinsic" or made p-type and n-type
by doping. If the activator is a dopant, one can create a semiconducting device.
         Some representative examples of inorganic semiconductors are aluminum antimonide,
boron nitride, gallium phosphide, indium gallium phosphide, aluminum gallium indium
phosphide, cadmium selenide, zinc sulfide, cadmium zinc telluride, lead sulfide and copper(I)
oxide.
         Opaque semimetal and semi-conductors are preferred for the indicating devices of the
system.
         A thin layer of vacuum deposited metals, such as sodium, lithium, potassium,
magnesium and their alloys can be used for monitoring humidity or moisture as these metals
and their alloys are sensitive to moisture and many chemicals. Sensitivity of the metal layer
to an activator can be adjusted by selecting proper co-metal. For example, sensitivity of
aluminum to water can be adjusted by adding many co-metals, such as sodium, lithium and
indium.
         Like copper many other metals produce color compounds. By selecting a proper
activator, one can produce additional colors. Plastic films coated with copper and its alloys
and inks with fine particles of copper and its alloys also preferred for monitoring sterilization
processes.
         A powder of a metal or an alloy, preferably micron and nano sized, dispersed in a
binder like an ink or paint, is one of a preferred coating formulation, especially for
sterilization indicating devices. Metals, such as copper and its alloy which readily react with
activators are further preferred metals. Smaller the metal particles (higher surface area), more
readily they will react with activator to provide the change. A mixture of a metal powder and
activator in an ink or paint formulation is a preferred ink or coating formulation for
monitoring sterilization. Sterilization processes include steam, oxidants, (such as hydrogen
peroxide and peracetic acid) and toxic/hazardous gases, such as ethylene oxide.
         A continuous layer of a metal (e.g., that prepared by vacuum evaporation of a metal
on a plastic film) having thickness of less than one micron (10,000 Angstroms), preferably
less than 0.1 micron (1,000 Angstroms) and discontinuous/dispersed layer of a metal, e.g.,
that composed of metal particles, having thickness of less than one hundred microns,
preferably less than 20 microns are preferred sizes and are more useful for practical purposes
of the devices and processes proposed herein.
                                                83

        It is preferred to use fine metal particles of relatively uniform size for the devices
disclosed herein. Small spherical particles are preferred but any other shapes, including
irregularly shaped flat particles of indicators can also be used.
        Mixture of two pigments, one heavier than the others are of special interest. During
coating the lighter will mainly float/come on the surface and hence dominate the color of the
coating. For example, when aluminum ink and copper or copper based alloy inks are mixed
in 1:1 proportion, the aluminum pigments being lighter come on the surface the surface
mainly appear silvery. When etched with some selective etchant, aluminum gets etched first
or faster and a copper color, a color of silvery white to red appears. In case of lighter color
pigments, especially organic, they float on the surface and hence their color dominates.
Hence, a mixture of two or more indicating pigments or one indicating and one non
indicating pigments can be used.
        Leafing and non-leafing type metallic pigments can be used for the indicating devices.
However, for proper etching of the metal pigments, non-leafing pigments are preferred.
        Ultra thin metal pigment/flakes, e.g., created from vacuum coated metals can also be
used.
        Nobel metals such silver and gold can also be used as indicators with strong activators
for monitoring vigorous or severe conditions and usually long time.
        The preferred substrate for the metals is a plastic film. However, it could be any other
substrate including other metals, fabric, paper, wood, an adhesive film and glass. For
example, a transfer adhesive tape, reinforced paper and fabric having thin layer of metal can
be used as substrate for the current devices.
        The shape of the coated indicator could be any, e.g., flat, circular, fiber, cylindrical, or
any irregular shape.
        When an alloy is used as an indicator layer, it is also possible that one metal may get
etched faster than the other and for certain alloys, such as bronzes (e.g., that of zinc and
copper) one can get gradual color change.
        Because of the metallic indicator layer, one can create indicating device for very high
temperatures (e.g., 5000 C or higher) as long as, activator, substrate, and other organic
materials can withstand such high temperatures. The devices can also be used at very low
temperatures, e.g., minus 100 0C.
        Copper and many of its alloys are red or yellow and salts of copper are usually blue or
green. We have observed that when copper and its alloys/bronzes (e.g., copper-zinc alloys,
which appear yellow, like gold) are treated with certain activators they produce green salts of
                                                 84

copper, e.g., upon sterilization with steam, dry heat, plasma and ethylene oxide, which can be
used for red-to-green color changes or gold to green color changes. Salts of aluminum and
zinc are usually colorless (white or transparent). If the resultant salts of copper and its alloys
are substantially transparent, a message, e.g., "STERILIZED" printed under the coating will
appear along with the color change when the devices are sterilized. Indicators for copper ion
can also be added for enhancement of the color changes.
         Other systems which can be used instead of dissolution/etching of a metal for many of
the devices and processes of the current system disclosed herein are formation of a metal. For
example, one can use silver diamine/di-ammonia complex formed by adding ammonia in
silver nitrate as an indicator and glucose as an activator. This system/process is known as
Tollen reagent or test. Glucose will reduce the silver complex to silver and a metallic/opaque
surface/coating can appear. A message printed under the coating will become invisible. Many
other metal salts and complexes and reducing agents, such as aldehydes can be used.
         Similarly, commonly known as electroless plating process can also be used for
making many devices proposed herein. In the process of electroless plating (also known as
chemical or auto-catalytic plating) process, sensitizing agents, such as SnCl 2 , PdCl 2 are used.
The reduction of the complex to metal (typically copper or nickel) is accomplished by a
reducing agent, normally sodium hypophosphite or an aldehyde. Thus, this system can also
be used for monitoring formaldehyde and other reducing agents and sterilization with them.
A message printed under the coating will become invisible when metal gets deposited. A
message printed with the palladium catalyst can be selectively plated. A message (e.g.,
"STERILIZED") can be made visible by many different ways, including those disclosed
herein, for example, by printing the message with a catalyst or reducing agent and by
selective masking.
         Likewise, other systems that can be used instead of etching of a metal or deposition of
a metal for the devices and processes disclosed herein are formation of an opaque material.
For example, Fehling or Benedict solution which contains copper(II) ion complexed with
tartrate ion in a basic media can be used as an indicator. Copper(II) ion complexed with
tartrate ion prevents its precipitation as copper(II) hydroxide. A reducing agent, such as an
aldehyde can be used as an activator. Aldehyde will reduce the copper complex to copper(I)
oxide, which is black/opaque. Again a message printed under the coating will become
invisible. Thus, this system can also be used for monitoring formaldehyde and other reducing
agents.
                                               85

        Immersion plating is a process for the deposition of a metallic coating on another
metal immersed in a solution of metal compound without using external electric current. Still
another way of making the indicating devices disclosed herein is to have a metal salt, such as
copper chloride or copper sulfate in an activator tape and iron foil, thin layer of iron particles
as an indicator. Iron will get plated with copper and will change from white to red.
        In order to monitor radiation, one can use the so called photo-reduction of metal salts
and complexing agents to produce a metal for monitoring radiation. The most common
examples of such reactions are photo-reduction of silver halide to silver and so called blue
print where a coating of a mixture of ferric ammonium citrate and potassium ferrocyanide,
produces a blue color complex (Prussian blue) when exposed to light. These types of photo
reduction and photo-oxidation reactions can be used to make the radiation sensitive devices,
such as radiation dosage indicating devices for monitoring sterilization.
        In the processes and devices disclosed above which are not based on etching of a
metal, the indicator is in form of precursor for an indicator. These non-etching devices could
also have many of the features, such as creating a self reading message.
        Instead of dissolution of a metal by an activator, one can also create a variety of
indicating devices disclosed herein by dissolving an opaque or dark material (colored or
white) which can be dissolved or swollen with an activator and becoming transparent. The
opaque material could be monomeric or polymeric. A non-permeable, destructible layer of
these opaque materials can also be used as indicators for the system.
        The final products from metallized inks can be transparent or opaque. Depending
upon the need, an opaque material can be converted to clear and vice versa by selecting
proper reactant/activator. For example, when sodium hydroxide reacts with aluminum, it can
provide opaque aluminum oxide, which can be converted to transparent by adding chemicals,
such as sodium phosphate to make it transparent and vice versa. The opaque coating can be
made transparent by secondary reaction/reactant, i.e., by adding another reactant/additive
which reacts with, dissolves or swells the opaque products.
        For certain indicating devices, such as temperature indicating devices one can coat an
activator on an indicator or vice versa. This way the activator and indicator are in closest
proximity and hence the reaction will be faster. The coating of an activator on the indicator
and vice versa can be done first and then dispersed in a binder. For example, a metal particle
can be coated with an activator by a number of methods for example, an encapsulation
method.
                                               86

         One can also use conductive polymers (also known as synthetic metals), both soluble
and insoluble and both un-doped and doped as indicator. Synthetic metals have narrow bad
gap. Examples of conductive polymers are doped polyaniline, polyacetylene and polypyrrole.
Electronic devices can also be created by using a dopant as activator or by neutralizing effect
of the dopant for conducting polymers and inorganic semi-conductors.
         Any chemical which can react with the said indicators can be used as an activator.
Metals may also undergo a displacement reaction with activators. Metals and their
alloys/bronzes are attacked by a large number of chemicals. Water, oxygen, acids, bases, salts
and oxidizing agents readily attack metals and are preferred activators.
         The content of an activator will depend on many factors including the nature and
thickness of the indicator but preferably be ~5% by weight or higher, more preferably~ 10
40% by weight.
         Activators could have a co-activator. Co-activator could be a moderator/modulator. It
could increase or decrease the effect of an activator as desired. Sometimes two activators can
have synergistic effect. For example, a mixture phosphoric acid and substituted or un
substituted aliphatic and aromatic sulfonic acids are more effective, especially in presence of
water, than individual acids. A solvent, wetter, surfactant or plasticizer can also be used as
co-activator. Certain solvents can retard the effectiveness while other could increase the
effect. The terms, co-activator, moderator and modulators are used interchangeably herein.
         High boiling and solid solvents which can dissolve an activator can be used to
facilitate migration of activator, especially through a binder for the activator and/or the
permeable layer. When solvents are used, one can use solid activators. High boiling solvents,
such as cinnamoyl alcohol, xylenol, phenolethanol, diphenylether and a large number of other
organic and inorganic compounds can be used as solvents for activators.
         We have observed that often solvents, expedite the diffusion of the activator and
reaction with the indicators i.e., dissolution of the metal layer. For example, p-toluene
sulfonic acid in an adhesive (S8510 of Avery Dennison) as an activator with little or no water
(dried at 100 0 C for 30 minutes) is extremely slow (takes almost a week at 25 0 C) in dissolving
100 Angstroms aluminum layer while that containing about 20% water makes it to react
hundreds of times faster (e.g., 5 minutes at 25 0 C). In this and similar cases, most probably
water is an activator and the acid is a catalyst.
         A material comprising one or more capabilities of: reacting with a metal, changing
chemical nature of the indicators, reducing reflectivity, destroying conductivity, tarnishing,
coloring, reducing noticeability of the said indicators, reducing opacity of said indicators,
                                                  87

reducing environmentally stability of said indicators, not migrating through the indicator
layer, irreversibly reacting with said indicators, reacting with the said indicators at its surface
and substantially destroying said indicators can be used as an activator.
         The rate of reaction will depend on the sensitivity of the metal to the activators. Weak
activators will require harsher conditions, e.g., higher concentration, temperature and/or take
longer time for the change and vice versa.
         When water is required as etchant, co-etchant, catalyst or a solvent, inorganic
compounds having water of hydration can be used. Likewise hygroscopic materials can also
be used as a co-activator.
         As water can act as a reactant and/or catalyst and is often required for etching or
dissolution of metals, one can use organic and inorganic compounds having water as water of
crystallization (often referred as water of hydration) as activators or precursor for activators.
Many materials have water chemically combined with a substance in such a way that it can
be removed and made available, e.g., by heating. For example, anhydrous copper sulfate is a
white solid with the formula CuSO 4 . When crystallized from water, a blue crystalline solid
CuSO 4 -5H 2 0. Alums AlK(SO 4) 2 -12H 20 has 12 water molecules. The water is released at
certain temperature or temperature range, e.g., hydrated ammonium oxalate and barium
chloride release water at about 115 0 C and calcium sulfate at about 200 0 C.
         Examples of other salts with higher number of water molecules as water of
crystallization that can be used as activators are hexahydrated aluminum chloride, ferric
chloride and magnesium chloride, octahydrated calcium sulfate and barium hydroxide,
decahydrated sodium sulfate, borax, sodium borate, sodium carbonate and tetrasodium
diphosphate, dodecahydrated sodium phosphate diabasic, aluminum potassium sulfate,
ammonium ferric sulfate, trisodium phosphate, ammonium iron sulfate, potassium aluminum
sulfate, sodium ferrocyanide and tetrakis(4-sulfophenyl)methane             and higher hydrated
compounds,      such    as   1,4,8,11-Tetra(2-carboxy)ethyl-1,4    ,8,11-tetraazacyclotetradecane
(H2TETP)2, hexadeca hydrate and aluminum sulfate octadecahydrate.
         Activators could be monomeric, oligomeric, polymeric, mono-functional or multi
functional., e.g., sulfuric acid, di and higher functional aromatic sulfonic acids, polystyrene
sulfonic acid and polyethyleneimine.
         Acids include Bronsted-Lowry and Lewis acids, mineral acids, inorganic and organic
acids can be used as activators or catalysts for etching, especially with a protonic solvent such
as water. Acids are electrolytes and etchants. Specific examples of acids are perchloric,
perchloroacetic,    hydrochloric,    sulfuric,  nitric, phosphorous     acid,   phosphoric    acid,
                                                 88

hypophosphorous          acid   sulfonics,  methanesulfonic,    ethanesulfonic,    benzenesulfonic,
toluenesulfonic, naphthanol sulfonic, camphor-i 0-sulfonic, 3-hydroxypropane-1-sulfonic,
carboxylics, formic, acetic and citric acids. Alkyl or aromatic acids and bases are preferred.
Partially esterified acids can also be used. The most preferred is phosphoric                   acid,
phosphorous acid, hyposphorous acid, their derivatives and mixtures. Halo-acids and halo
alcohols, such as trichloroethanol and trichloroacetic acid can also be used.
         Acids and their esters, including partial esters are often used as tackifiers. Thus, acids,
such as phosphoric acid can make a non-tacky resin a PSA or increase the tackiness of a PSA.
Hence, it is likely that phosphoric acid will form a solid solution with the matrix/PSA.
         Bases also attack metals and hence can be used as activators or catalysts for
activators, especially with a protonic solvent such as water. Some examples of bases are
hydroxides of sodium, potassium, calcium, lithium and tetrabutyl ammonium, aryloxide and
alkoxides (e.g., ethoxides and methoxides of sodium, lithium and potassium). Amines, such
as aliphatic, cyclic and aromatic, substituted or un-substituted amines, including primary,
secondary and tertiary amines, e.g., ethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, aziridine,
piperidine, pyridine and aniline can also be used as activators.
         A variety of amines are available. Amines, such as primary, secondary, tertiary and
quaternary amines of mono or multi-substituted or un-substituted aliphatic, acyclic and
aromatic compounds can be used as activators for some of the devices. Examples of amines
and     their   salts    include:   adamantanamine,     adenine,    amino    cyclohexanol,     amino
diethylaminopentane, amino dodecanoic acid, amino ethyl dihydrogen phosphate, amino
ethyl hydrogen sulphate, amino pentenoic acid, amino propyl imidazole, amino propyl
pipecoline, amino sorbitol, amino undecanoic acid, amino-butanol, aminodeoxy-d-sorbitol,
aminoethyl dihydrogen phosphate, aminopropyl imidizole, ammonium acetate, ammonium
bromide, ammonium carbaminate, ammonium carbonate, ammonium chloride, ammonium
dihydrogen      phosphate, ammonium ferrocyanide hydrate, ammonium formate, ammonium
hydrogen carbonate, ammonium hydroxide, ammonium iron(ll) sulfate, ammonium iron(lll)
citrate, ammonium iron(lll) oxalate trihydrate, ammonium nitrate, ammonium per sulfate,
ammonium        phosphate     dibasic,   ammonium    sulfamate,    ammonium      sulfate, benzyl-n
methylethanolamine,            benzyltrimethylammonium           chloride,      bis(dimethylamino)
benzophenone,         chloroethylamine     monohydrochloride,     chlorohydroxypropyl      trimethyl
hydrochloride, chloronitroaniline, choline, choline chloride, choline hydroxide, choline
iodide,       cyclohexyamine,       decylamine,    diallyl    dimethyl      ammonium        chloride,
diaminodiphenylamine,           diaminododecane,    diaminoheptane,        diaminohydroxypropane,
                                                 89

diaminononane, diaminooxapentane, diaminopropane, dibutylamino propylamine, dibutyl
amino benzaldehyde, diethanolamine, diethyl amine, diethyl aminopropylamine, diisopropyl
ethylamine, dimethyl amine, dimethyl amino ethylmethylamino ethanol, dimethyl amino
benzaldehyde, dimethyl aminopropoxy benzaldehyde, dimethyl aminopropylamine, dimethyl
ammopyridine,        dimethyl      glycine,     dimethyl    glyoxine,     dimethyl    imidizole,      dimethyl
imidizolidinone,           dimethyl        propane-diamine,           diphenylamine,         diphenylamine,
diphenylbenzidine,         dodecylamine,         dodecyltrimethylammoniumbromide,              ethanolamine,
ethanolamine hydrochloride,            ethyl amine, ethyl aminobenzoate hydrochloride,                 glycidil
trimethyl ammonium chloride, histidine, hydroxylamine hydrochloride,                         hydroxylamine
sulphate, imidazole, imidazolidone, iminodiacetic acid, methyl amine, methyl imidizole, nitro
aniline,   nitro    diphenylamine,        octa    decylamine,     phenylenediamine,      polyethylenimine,
tetrabutyl ammonium hydroxide, tetrabutyl ammonium iodide, tetraethylammonium bromide,
tetraethylammonium hydroxide, tetrafluorophenylimidizole, tetrahexylammonium bromide,
tetramethyl ammonium acetate, tetramethyl ammonium chloride, tetramethyl ammonium
hydroxide,     tetramethyl      ethylenediamine,      tetramethyl ethylethylenediamine,           tetramethyl
hexanediamine,        tetramethyl       propanediamine,      tetramethyl      guanidine     , triallylamine,
triethanolamine,      triethylamine,      triethylenetetramine,      triethylenetetramine     hydrochloride,
triethylethylenediamine,         tridecylamine,       trimethyl      ammonium        chloride,      trimethyl
propanediamine,        trimethylamine        hydrochloride,     trioctylamine,    trioxa-tridecanediamine,
triphenylamine, tris(hydroxymethyl) aminomethane and tris(methoxyethoxy) ethylamine.
         Even though acids, bases, salts and similar compounds often act as catalysts for
etching of metals/indicators and water as activator, they are referred herein as activatrs.
         There are a large number of salts, e.g., salts of a weak acid and a strong base, a strong
acid and a weak base, a strong acid and a strong base or a weak acid and a weak base can be
used as activators for the devices. Many organic and inorganic corrosive chemicals, salts,
such as aluminum chloride, ammonium phosphates, ammonium sulfate, calcium chloride,
iron chloride, lithium carbonate, lithium carbonate, phosphonates, phosphites, salts of amines
and acids, such as amine:hydrochlorides (e.g., triethanolamine:HCl), potassium benzoate,
potassium,      sodium       and    lithium     salts   of   2,4-dihydroxybenzoic        acid    and     2,4,6
trihydroxybenzoic         acid,   sodium       acetate,    sodium      bicarbonate,    sodium       carbonate,
tetrabutylammonium acetate, zinc chloride, can also be used as activators.
         One of the preferred class of compounds as activators are those of phosphorus. They
include phosphoric acid, phosphorous acid, hypophosphorous acid, organic and inorganic
                                                        90

phosphines (PR 3 ), phosphine oxide (OPR 3), phosphinite (P(OR)R 2), phosphate (P(OR) 3 ),
phopshinate (OP(OR)R 2), phosphonate (OP(OR) 2R) and phosphate (OP(OR) 3 ).
        It is also possible to use buffers to catalyze dissolution of metals. In order to maintain
a steady reactivity/rate one may add a proper buffer to maintain the pH. A large number of
buffers are reported in the literature which potentially can be used. Examples of common
buffer compounds include: 3-{[tris (hydroxymethyl) methyl]amino} propane sulfonic acid,
N,N-bis (2-hydroxyethyl) glycine, tris (hydroxymethyl) methylamine, N-tris (hydroxymethyl)
methyl glycine, 4-2-hydroxyethyl- 1-piperazine ethane sulfonic acid, 2- { [tris (hydroxymethyl)
methyl] amino} ethanesulfonic acid, 3-(N-morpholino) propane sulfonic acid, piperazine
N,N'-bis (2-ethane sulfonic acid), dimethylarsinic acid, 2-(N-morpholino) ethanesulfonic
acid, mono potassium phosphate and diammonium phosphate.
        Instead of using inorganic halide salts, one can use organic halide salts as activators or
precursor     for  activators.  Some    representative    examples    of organic    bromide   are:
alkyltrimethylammonium              bromide,           benzyltributylammonium             bromide,
benzyldodecyldimethylammonium            bromide,     dimethyldioctadecylammonium         bromide,
dodecylethyldimethylammonium             bromide,       dodecyltrimethylammonium          bromide,
ethyltriphenylphosphonium         bromide,       ethylhexadecyldimethylammonium           bromide,
hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide, myristyltrimethylammonium bromide, polybrene,
poly(benzophenonetetracarboxylic       dianhydride-ethidium     bromide), tetraheptylammonium
bromide, tetrakis(decyl)ammonium bromide, thonzonium bromide. One can also use other
halides salts, such as fluoride, chloride and iodide. Polymeric halide salts, such as polybrene
can also be used. These halides can also be used as precursors for many chemicals and
processes.
        Mild and strong, organic and inorganic oxidizing agents can also react with metals
and their alloys. An oxidizing agent can also be used as an activator. Representative common
oxidants (oxidizing agents) include: ammonium persulfate, ammonium nitrate, potassium
permanganate, potassium dichromate, potassium chlorate, potassium bromate, potassium
iodate, sodium hypochlorite, nitric acid, chlorine, bromine, iodine, cerium(IV) sulfate,
iron(III) chloride, peroxides, such as hydrogen peroxide, manganese dioxide, sodium
bismuthate, sodium peroxide, sodium nitrate, oxygen, sulfoxides, persulfuric acid, ozone,
osmium tetroxide, N-bromosaccharin, tert-butyl hydroperoxide, dimethyl sulfoxide, ferric
chloride, ferric nitrate, formic acid, hydrogen peroxide urea adduct, sodium perborate and
halogens such as chlorine and bromine.
                                                 91

         Metal surfaces have an oxide layer and hence commonly known as metal surface
cleaners can be used as an activator or co-activators. Metal surface cleaning formulations
disclosed in US        Patent No. 7,384,901;          6,982,241;     6,669,786;    5,688,755; 5,669,980;
5,571,336; 5,545,347; 5,532,447 and variations of them can be used. Some of the polishing
compositions may act as activator.
         The co-activator may comprise a chelating or complexing agents. The complexing
agent is any suitable chemical additive that reacts or weakens the naturally formed
barrier/permeable layer or reacting the products of metals with activators. The choice of
chelating or complexing agents will depend on the type of naturally or intentionally applied
barrier or permeable layer. Examples of chelating or complexing agents include, carbonyl
compounds (e.g., acetylacetonates), simple carboxylates (e.g., acetates, aryl carboxylates),
carboxylates containing one or more hydroxyl groups (e.g., glycolates, lactates, gluconates,
gallic acid and salts thereof), di-, tri-, and poly-carboxylates (e.g., oxalates, phthalates,
citrates, succinates, tartarates, malates, edetates (e.g., dipotassium EDTA), mixtures thereof),
carboxylates containing one or more sulfonic and/or phosphonic groups, and the like.
Suitable chelating or complexing agents also can include, for example, di-, tri-, or
polyalcohols (e.g., ethylene glycol, pyrocatechol, pyrogallol, tannic acid) and amine
containing     compounds      (e.g., ammonia, amino acids, amino alcohols, di-, tri-,                  and
polyamines).
         Other examples of chelating agents include trisodium pyrophosphate, tetrasodium
diphosphate,        sodium       hexametaphosphate,            sodium      trimetaphosphate,       sodium
tripolyphosphate,      potassium     tripolyphosphate,        phosphonic     acid,    di-phosphonic   acid
compound, tri-phosphonic acid compound, a salt of a phosphonic acid compound, ethylene
diamine-tetra-acetic acid, gluconate, or another ligand-forming compound. The chelating
agents      also     include      phosphonic         acid-based       chelating      agents,    such     as
aminotri(methylenephosphonic            acid),    1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-diphosphonic          acid   and
ethylenediaminetetramethylenephosphonic             acid; aminocarboxylate-based chelating agents,
such as ethylenediaminetetraacetates and nitrilotriacetates; hydroxyaminocarboxylate-based
chelating agents, such as dihydroxyethylglycine; or mixtures thereof.
         Still further examples of chelating agents include amino acids, such as glycine, serine,
proline, leucine, alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, glutamine, valine, lysine, etc.; polyamine
complexes        and     their     salts,     including       ethylenediaminetetraacetic       acid,    N
hydroxyethylethylenediaminetriacetic            acid,    nitrilotriacetic   acid,    iminodiacetic   acid,
diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid, and ethanoldiglycinate; polycarboxylic acids, including
                                                      92

phthalic acid, oxalic acid, malic acid, succinic acid, mandelic acid, mellitic acid; alkali metal
or ammonium salts of acetic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, gluconic acid, lactic acid,
propionic acid, or mixtures thereof.
         The content of a chelating agent will depend on many factors including the nature and
thickness of the indicator but preferably be ~1% by weight or higher, more preferably~ 5%
by weight or more.
         One can also use metal complexes such that of transition metal, e.g., copper chloride
ammonia/amine complexes and nickel chloride ammonia/amine complexes as activators.
         A very thin layer or microencapsulated fine particles of pyrophoric materials can be
used as activators for monitoring oxygen and/or humidity. The pyrophoric materials include:
alkylated metals, metal alkoxide, non-metal halides, such as dichloro(methyl)silane, Grignard
reagents (RMgX), metal hydrides or nonmetal hydrides (diborane hydride), iron sulfide,
partially or fully alkylated derivatives of metals and nonmetals (diethylaluminum hydride,
butyllithium, triethylboron), metal carbonyl, methanetellurol and phosphorus (white, or
yellow).
         The pyrophoric metals for monitoring oxygen and moisture include alkali metals,
finely divided metals, such as iron, magnesium and calcium and hydrogenation catalyst, such
as Raney nickel.
         Often water and air react/etch many metals. However, these reactions are often very
slow for certain metals. These reactions can be accelerated with a catalyst. Many of the
compounds listed herein as activators or precursor for activators may also be catalysts. For
example, many metal salts of carboxylic acids, such as sodium acetate and calcium citrate
may be catalysts, for example, for steam sterilization indicating device of Example 26. When
a mixture of aluminum pigments and sodium acetate in a binder is treated with steam at
120 0 C for 30 minutes, the aluminum particles get dissolved and the coating becomes light
white and essentially transparent and a color, e.g., green and a message, e.g., STERILIZED
printed underneath become visible. However, when aluminum pigments in a binder without
any catalysts is treated with steam at 120 0 C for 30 minutes, the aluminum particles essentially
remain unaffected. When a solution of these salts, such as sodium acetate is steamed at
120 0 C, its pH remains unchanged.
         Preferred catalysts for etching of metals are acids, bases and their salts. Further
preferred catalysts are salts of a weak acid and a strong base, such as tetrabutylammonium
acetate and that of a strong acid and a weak base, such as ammonium fluoride. Preferred
catalysts are food additives, such as sodium acetate and sodium diacetate. Other preferred
                                                 93

catalysts   are carboxylic     acid salts, acetylacetonates,    cyanates, tetrafluoroborates and
phosphates of alkali metals, such as lithium, sodium and potassium and group II metals, such
as magnesium and calcium and other metals, such as copper, nickel, iron, zinc and aluminum.
The following salts are effective in dissolving fine particles of aluminum when treated with
steam at 120 0 C in a binder: potassium acetate, lithium formate, calcium acetate, copper(II)
acetate, magnesium acetate, lithium acetylacetonate, sodium acetylacetonate potassium
acetylacetonate, sodium cyanate, sodium tetrafluoroborate and sodium phosphates. The
coatings don't change color with dry heat (140 0 C for 30 minutes) which indicates that water
is an activator and these salts are catalysts.
        It is also possible that some activators may initiate an auto-catalytic dissolution of
metals. Especially acids, such as hydrochloric acid produced during radiation of halo
compounds, such as carbon tetrachloride, chlorinated polyolefins and polyvinylidene chloride
in presence of water can dissolve metals, such as aluminum.
        It is also possible to substantially and selectively etch one metal of an alloy, one metal
from a mixture of fine particles of two or more metals and their alloys or a top coating of a
metal over the other. These types of processes can also provide color changes. For example, it
is possible to substantially selectively etch zinc and aluminum from their alloy with copper.
For example, when a gold (zinc-copper bronze) ink coating containing potassium bromide is
treated with a dry heat at 160 0 C for 30 minutes (a dry heat sterilization indicating device), it
is possible to substantially selectively etch aluminum and zinc leaving copper behind which
is indicated by a color change from yellow to red. In these cases of alloys or a thin coating of
a one metal over the other metal of different colors, the surface etching could be good enough
for the color changes and hence the reaction could be much more effective and sensitive.
Similarly, it is possible to selectively etch aluminum particles from a mixture of fine particles
of aluminum and that of an alloy of zinc/aluminum and copper. For example, when a mixture
of 4:3 mixture of a silver ink (aluminum particles) and a gold ink (a bronze of copper and
zinc) containing sodium diethydilthiocarbamate is treated with steam at 120 0 C for 30
minutes, the aluminum particles get dissolved leaving red color copper particles behind, a
color change of silvery white to red.
        For certain applications, such as dissolution of an antenna of an RFID or making one
may need a stronger or a higher concentration of an etchant. One can use strong acids and
bases, such as potassium hydroxide or nitric acid or very reactive salts, such as aqueous ferric
chloride as an etchant. One can also create these strong etchants from precursors, for
                                                 94

example, by reaction of sodium nitrite and sodium nitrate with a weak acid, such as
phosphoric acid.
         Nobel and many other metals are difficult to etch. Silver and gold are widely used in
electronic industry. Silver based paint, inks and pastes/plastisols are used to make a variety of
electronic products including printed electronics such as antenna for RFID. These metals are
attacked only by limited number of etchants such as nitric acid, and sulfide such as hydrogen
sulfide.
         One can also create electronic devices, such as RFID and printed circuit boards by
applying a layer of a photoresist followed by a layer of an activator or precursor layer on a
metallized plastic substrate. The circuit can be created by exposing a photoresist by a
conventional method. The activator will diffuse through the more permeable portions, e.g.,
degraded by radiation and etch the metal underneath, thereby create the device.
         The indicating devices could also be created by applying a layer of a precursor (e.g.,
that of a halo, halonium, sulfonium, nitronium and phosphonium compound) on a metal layer
which produces an etchant upon irradiation. Metal under the irradiated portions will be
etched. Thus, one can create electronic devices without having a photoresist.
         Some of the reactions of metal produce hydrogen gas while others don't (normally
known as displacement reactions). Preferred reactions/activators are that which does not
produce hydrogen but activators which produce hydrogen, such as phosphoric acid can be
used.
         Water is an activator for metals. In order for metal particles to form a color
compound,      a wide variety        of reactants/activators  can be     used including     salts,
chelating/complexing agents and dyes. For example, if one want to form metal sulfide from
metal powder, one uses a sulfur source selected from the group consisting of elemental sulfur,
metal sulfide, metal thiosulfate, thiourea, thiocyanates and thiosemicarbazide. Specific
examples are potassium thiosulfate, sodium thiosulfate, ammonium thiosulfate, barium
thiosulfate, potassium disulfite, sodium metabisulfite, 1 -(2-methoxyphenyl)-2-thiourea, 1
allyl-2-thiourea, 1-methyl-2-thiourea, 1-ethyl-2-thiourea, 1,3-dimethyl-2-thiourea, 1-phenyl
3-thiosemicarbazide, 1,3-diphenyl-2-thiourea, 1-benzyl-3-methyl-2-thiourea, 1,3-di-o-tolyl-2
thiourea,     1,3-di-.rho.-tolyl-2-thiourea,  4,6-dihydroxy-2-mercaptopyrimidine        and     2
thiohydantoin. Many other compounds/indicators which can form color compounds with
metal ions, especially with copper, such as 8-hydroxyquinoline, benzoin or oximes, rubeanic
acid (dithioxamide), cupferon (nitroso phenylhydroxyamine), dithiazone, rhodamine and
diethylthiocarbamate can also be used as activators.
                                                95

         Certain chemicals can be used to accelerate or retard the reaction. Iron compounds
and complexes, such as iron chlorides and potassium ferrocyanide and potassium
ferrocyanide can accelerate or catalyze the reaction.
         1,3-diketones having the general formula R-CO-CH-CO-R' wherein R and R' are
each individually monovalent organic radicals selected from the group consisting of alkyl,
aryl, aralkyl, alkaryl, cycloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkyl, and haloaryl radicals having from 1 to 12
carbon atoms can also be used as activators for the steam indicating devices.
         Activators, their mixtures and solutions which melt at certain temperatures or freeze
at lower temperatures can be used to activate the devices at a desired temperature or
temperature range. These types of formulations are desired for thaw indicating devices and
high temperature indicating        devices including humidity, microwave           doneness and
sterilization indicating devices. These types of activators will be essentially inactive till the
device reaches certain temperature.
         The inventions disclosed herein can use a heat-fusible activator, which melts and
flows above a pre-determined temperature. When the heat-fusible activator is exposed to a
temperature above the pre-determined temperature, the heat fusible activator will melt,
diffuse through the matrix and react with the metal indicator. Heat fusible activator could
have melting point below room temperature. This type of systems can be used for monitoring
class 3 type sterilization indicators.
         Precursors for activators are the materials which don't react or react very slowly with
a metal/indicator but produce activator for the indicator when subjected to a process or an
agent. Precursors for activators are often referred to as simply as precursors, irrespective of a
process, an agent or a device. Creation, coating, printing, layer and alike of a precursor will
be essentially similar to that of the activator. Like an activator, a precursor can be printed on
the metal/indicator layer or a metal layer can be created on the metal/indicator layer and can
have a substrate, mask and a protective layer.
         Sometimes there is no sharp line of demarcation between a precursor and an activator.
Many of the acids, bases and salts listed herein can also be precursor under certain
circumstances. It is also possible that (1) a reactant may produce a precursor for an activator
which may need another reactant or precursor to produce an activator, (2) two precursors may
react to produce an activator, (3) a precursor may undergo more than one reaction to produce
an activator and/or may need (4) a catalyst and alike to produce an activator. Phosphorus,
white and yellow phosphorus in particular is an example. White phosphorus reacts with
oxygen to produce phosphorus oxide which reacts with water to produce phosphoric acid
                                                 96

which is an activator. Thus, phosphorus is not a direct precursor but reacts with oxygen and
water,     to produce an activator. Thus white phosphorus can be used as precursor for
monitoring oxygen, phosphorous pentoxide for monitoring humidity and phosphoric acid for
monitoring time and time-temperature. A precursor or activator and a device made from it
can be used for multi-purpose, i.e., for monitoring more than one processes and/or agents as
well.
         Precursors or activators which are difficult to add in the ink or coating formulation for
one reason or the other, e.g., because they crosslink or degrade the binder, can also be
produced in situ. These types of compounds can be considered precursors for the precursors
but are included in the definition of an activator and its precursor. For example, some of the
polyvalent metal ion compounds, such as their salts (e.g., sulfates, phosphates and halides) of
copper, iron, zinc, magnesium, crosslink, aluminum, nickel, cobalt, indium, tin and their
alloys may be good activators but can't be added directly as they will crosslink or precipitate
many common binders, such as polyacrylics. Such activators or precursor for the activators
may be produced by adding fine powder of an element (e.g., a metal, such as copper) or
compounds which decompose and produce an activator and another reactant. For example,
copper bromide is a good activator but it can't be added directly in some inks because it
crosslinks many binders. However, it can be produced in situ by adding fine particles of
copper or its alloy, e.g., in an aluminum ink containing sodium bromide as a precursor. Upon
a process treatment, e.g., sterilization, e.g., with steam, sodium bromide will react with
copper particles and produce copper bromide which can act as a catalyst/activator for
dissolution of aluminum particles.
         It is also possible to etch/dissolve metals by a precursor which decomposes to produce
activators/etchants upon a treatment, such as steam and dry heat.
         A precursor can also be an organic or inorganic polymeric substance which degrades
to a low molecular activator when contacted with an agent, such as radiation, water,
humidity, oxygen, toxic chemical, an agent, including chemical or biological agent. An
example is polyphosphoric acid and sodium metasilicate (which exist in polymeric state)
which when contacted with water or water vapor produce activator such as phosphoric acid
and monomeric hydrated sodium metasilicate respectively. Another example is halogenated
polymers which produce halo-acids when radiated with ionizing radiation or heated.
         Any chemical which produces reactive species, such as acids, bases and salts upon
reaction with ETO can be used as a precursor for the activator for ETO. The acids, bases and
salts thus produced can react with an indicator/metal and produce the change or dissolution of
                                                  97

the metal or surface of metal particles. A metal cation, such as that of (1) monovalent metals,
such as sodium and potassium, (2) the other halides, such as bromides or iodides, of di or
higher valent metals, (3) organic halides, such as tetrabutylammoniun bromides and (4) other
salts, both organic and inorganic, such as sodium thiocyanate can be used as precursor for
activator for the ETO indicating device. These compounds react with ETO and probably
produce a base, such as sodium hydroxide which can react with metals, such as aluminum
and copper and their alloys.
        Any chemical which produces reactive species, such as acids, bases and salts with
oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide and peracetic acid or their plasmas can be used as a
precursor for the activator for plasmas and strong oxidants. The acids, bases and salts thus
produced can react with an indicator/metal and produce color change or dissolution of the
metal or surface of metal particles. A variety of classes of organic and inorganic compounds
can be used as activators for monitoring hydrogen peroxide and its plasma. They include
alcohols, amides, amines, bisulfites, bisulfates, carbonates, carbamates, chelates, metal
complexes, cyanates, esters, halides, halocarbons, ketones, nitrites, nitrates, nitriles, nitro,
nitroso, oximes, phenols, phosphates,       sulfates, sulfides, sulfites, thiocyanates,   ureas,
urethanes, salts, oxidants and reducing agents. Organic and inorganic salts, especially halides
can be very effective activators or precursors for activators. These halides include, acetyl
choline      chloride,    ammonium       bromide,    choline     chloride,    choline    iodide,
dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide, glycidil trimethyl ammonium chloride, potassium
bromide,    potassium    iodide, sodium iodide, tetrabutyl      ammonium iodide,      tetraethyl
ammonium bromide, tetrahexyl ammonium bromide, tetramethyl ammonium chloride and
tetrabutyl phosphonium bromide.
        Certain compounds are unstable under certain conditions can also be used as
precursors. For examples, ammonium carbonate decomposes to ammonia and carbon dioxide.
Ammonia can react with many metals and hence can be use as a precursor for time, time, and
time-temperature indicating devices.
        It is also possible to use complexes of acids and bases, e.g., aminoacid:phosphoric
acid, urea:phopshoric acid and ferric phosphate complexes.
        A mixture of a radiochromic dyes and a halo compounds are widely used as high dose
(dose higher than about 10 Gy or 1,000 rads) indicating devices/dosimeters for monitoring
ionizing radiations, such as X-ray and electrons. Organic halocompounds, especially
polymeric, such as polyvinylidene chloride and a pH sensitive dye are used to make the
dosimeters, including monitoring UV light exposure. Upon radiation with ionizing radiation,
                                               98

such as UV (e.g., 10 eV) to 100 MeV energy photons and electrons, organic halo compounds
produce hydrochloric acid which changes color of the pH dye. Such halo compounds and a
metal can be used for monitoring radiations, especially for monitoring high dose used for
sterilization.
         Certain    iodinium   salts,   such    as,    diphenyliodinium     hexafluoroarsenate,   and
diphenyliodinium chloride produce protonic acids, such as, HCl, HF, HBF 4 and HASF 6 upon
irradiation with high energy radiation (J. Crivello, Chemtech, October 1980, page 624; and
"The Chemistry of Halides, Pseudohalides, and Azides", S. Patai (Ed.), John Wiley, New
York, 1983). The sulfonium, iodinium and alike compounds, in which the primary
photochemical reaction produces a super acid and this super acid is employed catalytically to
generate other acids. Thus, the color development is amplified. Such systems, which been
described in USP 6,242,154 and references cited in there. These types of halonium,
sulfonium and alike compounds which produce acids and super acids and a metal can be used
for monitoring radiation, especially for monitoring high dose used for sterilization and
radiation of perishables.
         There is no report on use of halo, halonium or sulfonium type compounds as
activators (i.e., precursor activators) and a metal as indicator for monitoring radiation.
Radiation dosimeters for monitor ionizing radiation, such as UV light to 100 MeV energy
photons, electrons and protons can be developed using these systems. Halo, halonium or
sulfonium type compounds can be used as activators (i.e., precursor activators) and a metal as
indicator.
         A large number of halo compounds can be used as precursor for activators to make a
radiation dosimeter using a metal layer or fine particles of a metal as an indicator. The halo
compounds include, 1-chloro-1-nitropropane, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride, chloroacetic
acid,       chloropropionic       acid,       ethyl       trichloroacetate,      heptachloropropane,
hexachlorocyclohexane,       methyltrichloroacetimidate,      pentachloroethane, tetrachloroethane,
trichloro ethanol, trichloro methyl benzyl acetate, trichloro methyl propanol hydrate, trichloro
propane,        trichloroacetamide,       trichloroacetic         acid,     trichloroethaneisocyante,
trichloromethylbenzylacetate,      trichloromethylpropanol,        trichloropropane,    commercially
available chlorinated paraffins, such as Paroil 150A, Paroil 152, Paroil 170, Paroil 1061 and
Paroil 1650 of Dover chemical, Dover, OH, halo polymers, such as polyvinyl chloride,
polyvinylidene chloride, polyepichlorhydrin and halogenated polymers, such as chlorinated
polyisoprene and chlorinated polyvinylchloride.
                                                    99

         Other halo compounds include, 1,1-bis [p-chlorophenyl]-2,2,2-trichloroethane (DDT);
1,1-bis    [p-methoxyphenyl]-2,2,2-trichloroethane;      1,2,5,6,9,10-hexabromo     cyclododecane;
1,1 0-dibromodecane;          1,1 -bis [p-chlorophenyl] -2,2-dichloroethane:        4,4'-dichloro-2
(trichloromethyl)    benzhydrol;     hexachlorodimethyl      sulfone;  2-chloro-6(trichloromethyl)
pyridine; 0,0-diethyl-O-(3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridyl) phosphorothionate; 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachloro
cyclohexane;      N(1,1 -bis   [p-chlorophenyl]-2,2,2-trichloroethyl)      acetamide;    tris   [2,3
dibromopropyl]        isocyanurate;      2,2-bis    [p-chlorophenyl]- 1,1 -dichloroethylene;      tris
[trichloromethyl] s-triazine; and their isomers, analogs, homologs,
         Though bromo and iodo compounds can be used as the precursors, generally, chloro
compounds provide better stability than bromo and iodo compounds and hence chloro
compounds are preferred precursors.
         Inorganic halo compounds, such as bromide and iodide are light sensitive compounds,
such as ammonium iron(III) citrate may also be used as the precursors.
         Some nitro-compounds which can produce nitric acid upon radiation, such as
nitroalkanes and cellulose nitrate may also be used as the precursors.
         UV absorbers can be added in or above the precursor layer to protect from
UV/sunlight when higher energy radiations are monitored. The best protection from UV light
is the indicator, metal layer itself, when the metal layer is on the top layer.
         A coating of these halo compounds, preferably in a polymeric binder, in a suitable
solvent, can be coated on metallized polymer film.
         If required, bases, such as amines can be used to neutralize acid produced for
monitoring higher dose.
         In order for faster migration of acid to the metal layer, it is preferred that binder used
is permeable to acid produced and/or use solvents such as water. Water or similar
solvents/liquids are desired as they are activators and an acid can catalyze the reaction.
         In order to prevent the acid escaping into the atmosphere and/or being affected from
ambient conditions, an acid impermeable and protective layer, such as that of polyethylene
can be applied on the open side of the precursor layer.
         One can use a mixture of an activator and a precursor for the activator.
         There are many pairs of indicators and activators that can be used for certain devices
such as time-temperature indicating devices. However, the most preferred pair is aluminum
and phosphoric acid. Aluminum is highly stable and non-toxic metal and phosphoric acid is
non-toxic food additive used in soft drinks. The by-product, aluminum phosphate is water
insoluble and also non-toxic and used as a deodorant.
                                                 100

        Acids, bases and salts are used as activators and hence if desired their reaction can be
monitored with pH, cation and anion sensitive dyes. For example, bromophenol blue when
exposed to a base, such as sodium hydroxide turns blue. When blue-colored bromophenol
blue is exposed to acids, such as acetic acid it will undergo a series of color changes, such as
blue to green to green-yellow to yellow. Aluminum ion reacts with alizarins to give a red
precipitate; copper ions react with cuproine to give a pink purple color, ferrous ion gives a
red color with 2,2'-dipyridyl, ferric ion reacts with potassium ferrocyanide to give a blue
color, magnesium ion gives a blue color with magneson and nickel ion reacts with
dimethylglyoxime to give a red color. Test methods are also well known for the detection of
inorganic compounds, their cations and anions, which are associated with a color change.
These reactions and corresponding compounds can also be used in the device, especially if a
color change is also desired. Inorganic compounds and indicators for their detection are
described in references: J. Bassett, R. C. Denney, G. H. Jeffery and J. Mendham, Vogel's
Textbook of Quantitative Inorganic Analysis, Longman Scientific and Technical, p. 294,
1986.; Fritz Feigl, Vinzenz Anger and Ralph E. Oesper, Spot Test in Inorganic Analysis,
Elsevier Publishing Company, 1972, p. 526-616.; Products for Analysis, Catalog of Hach
Company, 1986-87 (are cited as references herein).
         These are dyes or compounds which react almost instantly with activators to
introduce a color change can be used as indicators to indicate activation of the device. These
are typically pH dyes. These dyes are coated on the aluminum layer or a permeable layer on
it. The preferred material is a colored dye which becomes colorless when contacted with the
activator. A thin layer of the activation indicator can be applied on the metal layer by many
coating methods including by subliming a dye. The reaction between the activation indicator
and the activator should occur almost instantly as the label applicator will apply hundreds of
labels a minutes and hence in order to monitor activation, the color change should be as fast
as possible. The reaction of phosphoric acid with many pH dyes is almost instant. It is highly
desirable to have this feature. Just an application of an activator tape on the indicator tape
does not mean the device is activated. The activation indicators will confirm that the device is
activated and also visually noticed
        The current devices have some internal indicators for monitoring tampering.
Uniformity, destruction of aluminum layer, the way it is destroyed, formation of final
products, such as aluminum phosphate etc can be used as internal indicators for monitoring
tampering. One can also add some internal indicators. Tamper indicator could be for physical
as well as for undesirable effects, e.g., effect of humidity, oxygen, light etc.
                                                 101

         A large number of reactions are associated with a change in fluorescence rather than a
color change in the visible region. Such compounds can be used as indicator and for security
in the device. All colors herein could also be fluorescence colors as well.
         We tested the concepts with a number of organic and inorganic compounds. On a
metallized (~125 Angstroms aluminum) polyester film were added a pinch of a number of
inorganic compounds and a few drops of water and covered with a plastic film to prevent
evaporation of water. The time required for dissolution of the metal layer was noted at room
temperature and then at 60 0 C for one day.
         The following compounds dissolved the aluminum layer very fast (within hours at
room temperature): ammonium iron[lll] sulfate, barium acetylacetonate, barium hydroxide,
bismuth[lll] nitrate, calcium acetylacetonate, calcium chloride, calcium hydroxide, calcium
sulfide, cobalt bromide, cobalt chloride, copper chloride, ferric salicyaldehyde, iron[ll]
sulfate, lithium acetylacetonate, lithium hydroxide, lithium tantalate , mercuric acetate,
mercury iodide, nickel chloride, palladium[lll] chloride, palladium[lll] nitrate, phosphoric
acid, phosphorous pentoxide, potassium acetylacetonate, potassium carbonate, potassium
hydroxide, potassium iodide, potassium phosphate, potassium bromide, silver sulfate, sodium
carbonate, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, sodium fluorocarbonate, sodium fluoride, sodium
hydroxide and sodium tetrafluoroborate.
         The following compounds dissolved the aluminum layer slowly (within a day at
60 0 C):  aluminum    acetylacetonate,   aluminum     chloride, aluminum    nitrite, aluminum
phosphate, aluminum sulfate, ammonium dihydrogen phosphate, ammonium ferrocyanide,
ammonium iron[ll] sulfate, ammonium iron[lll] oxalate, ammonium iron[lll] oxalate,
ammonium phosphate, cadmium sulfide, calcium bromide, calcium chloride, calcium oxalate,
calcium pyrophosphate, cerium carbonate, cobalt acetylacetonate, cobalt hydroxide, cobalt
oxalate, cobalt sulfide, copper acetate, copper acetylacetonate, copper thiocynate, cupric
benzoate, dimethyamine borane, ferric acetylacetamide, gluconic acid iron[lll]salt, iron[lll]
sulphate, iron[lll] chloride, iron[ll] bromide, iron[lll] bromide, lithium chloride, lithium
formate, lithium nitrate, magnesium[ll] acetylacetonate, magnesium acetate, magnesium
sulfate, magnesium oxide, nickel bromide, potassium ferricyanide, potassium ferrocyanide,
silver acetate, silver nitrate, sodium acetylacetonate, sodium bisulfate, sodium bisulfite,
sodium bisulphate, sodium bisulphate, sodium cyanate,            sodium dithionitrite, sodium
ethoxide,    sodium hexametaphosphate,      sodium hydrogen carbonate,      sodium hydrogen
phosphate, sodium hydrosulfide, sodium nitrite, sodium oxalate, sodium phosphate, sodium
                                               102

sulfide, sodium sulfite, sodium thiocyanate, sodium thiosulfate, titanium isopropoxide zinc
acetate, zinc oxide, and zinc sulfate.
         The following showed very little or no dissolution of aluminum layer under the
conditions we tried: aluminum hydroxide, aluminum sulfate, ammonium thiosulfate,
ammonium acetate, ammonium bromide, ammonium carbonate, ammonium chloride,
ammonium sulfate, barium acetate, barium bromide, benzene boronic acid, borane t
butylamine, boric acid-tin -butyl ether, cobalt orthophosphate, dibutyl tin maleate,
gadolinium oxide, magnesium sulfate, silver cyanate and sodium sulfate. These compounds
may dissolve aluminum under vigorous conditions, such as higher temperature, higher
concentration, or may dissolve other more reactive metals and alloys.
         In another experiment about 0.5g of the above compounds/activators were dissolved
in about 4g of Joncryl 77 (a polyacrylic binder from S.C. Johnson and Sons, Racing, WI).
Some of them did not dissolved and other caused precipitation of Joncryl 77. Excess
ammonium hydroxide was added to re-disperse Joncryl 77. The mixtures were coated on 100
microns metallized (about 125 Angstroms aluminum) polyester film with #20 and #40 wire
wound rods and dried at 70 0 C. Pieces were exposed to 100% humidity for 1 day at 60 0 C,
steam at 100 0 C for 30 minutes, steam at 120 0 C for 30 minutes, 100% ethylene oxide saturated
with humidity at 500 C for six hours, hydrogen peroxide vapor at 500 C for six hours, dry heat
at 160 0 C for 30 minutes. Many of them dissolved the metal layer, some with only one, some
with more than one activator and some activators dissolved the metal layer under almost all
treatments. For example, (1) ammonium thiocyanate, potassium ferrocyanide, sodium iodide
and zinc chloride dissolve the metal layer with hydrogen peroxide,                 (2) lithium
acetylacetonate, lithium chloride, lithium formate, potassium acetate, potassium benzoate,
potassium bromide, potassium chloride, potassium formate, potassium ferrocyanide, sodium
acetate, sodium bromide, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate,            sodium thiosulfate, sodium
thiocyanate and sodium sulfite dissolve the metal layer with ethylene oxide, (3) calcium
chloride, potassium acetate, and sodium carbonate dissolved the metal with dry heat at 160 0 C
and (4) calcium chloride, lithium acetylacetonate, lithium formate, potassium acetate,
potassium ferrocyanide, potassium formate, sodium acetate, sodium sulfite and sodium
tetraborate dissolve the metal layer with steam at 120 0 C. Thus by selecting proper activator
and its concentration, binder and other additives, one can make self reading sterilization
indicator selective for only one or more than one treatment/chemical.
         In another experiment, about 0.5g of the above listed inorganic compounds were
added in about 3g of aluminum ink (Product # 9W2967J of Braden Sutphin, Milwaukee WI)
                                                103

and in about 3g of bronze ink (zinc-copper bronze, Product # 9W3021N of Braden Sutphin),
mixed, heated if required.
         Some compounds reacted in minutes, some crosslinked the binder, while the
remaining remained fluidy. The fluidy mixtures were coated with #20 wire wound rod on 100
microns polyester films. The coated films were dried at 60 0 C for about 15 minutes. The
pieces of films were cut and exposed to dry heat at 140 0 C for 30 minutes, 160 0 C for 30
minutes, 100% humidity at 60 0 C for 16 hrs, steam at 100 0 C for 30 minutes, steam at 120 0 C
for 30 minutes, ethylene oxide gas having about 50% humidity and vapor of hydrogen
peroxide for six hours at 40 0 C. Many of the above activators dissolved aluminum particles
and tarnished bronze particles.
         An ink made from selected metal particles can be coated on words such as "sterilized"
(e.g., preferably on green color) or on a block printed with green color/symbol. When the
metal particles of the ink get dissolved upon a sterilization treatment, the message, e.g.,
"sterilized" will appear.
         Solvents or liquids as aids, facilitator, promotors to migration of activator useful in
the invention devices includes the following: water, CI-C15 aliphatic, aromatic and
substituted aliphatic and aromatic amides preferably acetamide, dimethylformamide and
chloroacetamide; alcohols, preferably amyl alcohol, hexyl alcohol, and dichloropropanol;
esters, preferably methylpropionate, amylformate, diethyl maleate, ethylene glycol diacetate,
ethylsalicylate, and triacetin; nitroalkanes preferably nitropropane; aldehydes, preferably
butyraldehyde; carbonates, preferably diethylcarbonate and propylene carbonate; aromatic
alcohols/phenols, preferably dihydroxy benzene, benzyl alcohol and phenol; amines,
preferably    diethanolamine,   dimethylpyridine      and  cyclohexane   diamine;    ether-esters
preferably ethoxyethylacetate, trioxane, tetraethylene glycol dimethylether, benzyl ether,
phenylether, propylene glycol ethylether acetate and propylene glycol butylether; alcohol
esters, preferably ethylene glycol monoacetate; acids, preferably glutaric acid, isobutyric
acid, mandelic acid, and toluene sulfonic acid; ketones, preferably methylethylketone and
hydroxyacetophenone;      ketone-esters, preferably methylacetoacetate; lactones, preferably
propiolactone and butyrolactone, methylpyrrolidone and mixture thereof. One can use more
than one activator solvent in varying proportions. One may use additives, such as co-solvents
(especially highly polar organic solvents, such as alcohols, acids and amines, and ethers)
surfactants and nucleating agents. Many of these solvents can also be used as a wetter in the
activator tape to wet the metal surface.
                                                104

         Specific examples of solvents include butoxy-2-ethylstearate, butyrolactone, diethyl
fumarate, dimethyl maleate, dimethylcarbonate, dioctyl phthalate, ethylene glycol dimethyl
ether, ethyl salicylate, polyethylene glycol dimethylether, propylene carbonate, triacetin,
benzyl ether, dodecyl-1,2-methyl pyrrolidone, ethoxyethylacetate, ethylene glycol diacetate,
ethyltrichloroacetate, methylpyrrolidone, methyl sulfoxide, polyethylene glycols of different
molecular weight, dimethylformamide, cyclohexane, p-dioxane, tetrahydrofuran, p-xylene,
acetone, 2-butanone, ethyl acetate, propyl acetate, toluene, xylene and hexane. Many of these
solvents can also be used as a wetter in the activator tape to wet the metal surface.
         Solvents are used in making paint, inks and plastisols described herein.
         As the reaction between the activator (acids which are usually liquids) and the
indicator (aluminum) is heterogeneous, a phase transfer catalyst can be used and wetting
agents, such as a surfactant can also be used to promote the reaction and uniformity of the
reaction. Wetting agent to wet metals with phosphoric acid can be used. High boiling wetting
agents stable to acids and bases, typically used in acidic and basic plating solutions can also
be used.
        Activator may contain a solvent and/or surfactant for uniform wetting of the indicator
and uniform reaction. A large number of surfactants are available commercially including:
polyoxyethylene alkyl phenols, polyoxyethylene esters, polyoxypropylene esters, salts of
fatty long chain acids and sulfonates, polyethylene oxides, and polypropylene oxides.
        The activator tape for certain applications such as time-temperature indicating device,
can be prepared by mixing an activator or a precursor and a binder/an adhesive, such as a
PSA and applying on a substrate, such as a plastic film. Most of the widely used coating
techniques can be used for coating activator/matrix on a substrate. A release tape can be
applied to wind the activator tape for storage.
        Certain devices such as time-temperature can be activated by applying activator tape
on the indicator tape or vice versa. The device can be activated and stored cold till applied on
an object. The devices disclosed herein can be sealed at its peripheral edges to prevent
migration of activator or reaction with the environment. Sealing can be done by heat sealing
or by applying a non-permeable coating.
        When the indicator is sensitive to gases and vapors, the device gets activated when
exposed to such gases and vapors. For example, a metal coating which is sensitive to oxygen
and water vapor, can be activated by exposing the coating to oxygen and humidity/steam or
can be used for monitoring them.
                                                105

        Depending upon the application and from which side the device is viewed, the
expiration indicating layer could be above or below the indicator substrate. If the indicator
substrate is colored, the substrate itself can be an expiration indicating layer. The message
can be printed above or below the substrate but preferably below the indicator layer. Dyed
plastic films are readily available and hence there is no need to coat if only a color is required
as an expiration indicating.
        A top or protective coat can be applied over an indicating material if the chemical to
be monitored is permeable to the coating material. For example, a protective coat or film
which is permeable to steam can be applied on steam indicating device and permeable to
ethylene oxide for ethylene oxide indicating device. A protective coat can minimize the
undesirable effects of ambient or environmental conditions.
        Though the current inventions do not require color reference chart, it can be used.
This is particularly useful when use of color reference chart is mandatory, has become a
tradition/practice or is preferred. The color reference charts for the current invention could be
similar to those described in the prior art devices or those used in the market. The color
reference chart could be any shape, e.g., circular, rectangular, square and alike, and could
have one or more color reference bars for estimation of different stages of the shelf life or
advancement of the processes. Color reference bars could be on any layer or by having an
additional layer as long as they are visible or become visible when required.
        Indicator tape having a thinner metal layer (e.g., about 50 Angstroms) will provide
shorter and gradual induction period and hence can provide gradual color change. Thus
indicator tape having thinner indicator layer can be used to make indicating devices similar to
those available in the market with or without a color reference chart.
        The indicating device can be both self reading and with or without color reference
charts.
        Though the messages and color of the expiration indicating could be any, it is
preferred to be a gray colored because the aluminum layer becomes gray colored as it gets
thinner.
        The message layer could also be under the aluminum layer, preprinted on its substrate
before the metallization.
        The size of the indicating devices can be as small as a few square millimeters to
several centimeters or larger (e.g., square meters if needed). The thickness of the device
typically can be from a thousandth of a centimeter to a millimeter, or thicker, if desired.
                                                106

         The device can also be in form of a very long tape which can be wrapped on any
object including boxes containing food packages or cut into small pieces and applied on
individual object. The long tape indicating device can also be applied on closer of a
perishable container so it can be easily noticed and shelf life can be monitored.
         The device can also be in form of large labels, stickers and alike.
         As the indicator layer of the current device is environmentally highly stable, the
indicator tape can be pre-applied on any object including perishable containers and activated
when desired, e.g., when container is filled with a perishable.
         The thickness of the indicator, activator and other layers can be varied as needed. The
thickness of the indicator layer can be varied thin e.g., 10 Angstroms to 0.01 mm. However,
the other layers can have thickness in the range of about 0.001 mm to 1 mm, preferably in the
range of 0.05 mm to 0.5 mm. Generally, varying the thickness of the permeable layer will
vary the time required for the color change.
         The concentration of activator in the activator matrix can be in the range of 0.01 to 0.9
g/cc of the matrix and preferably 0.05 to 0.5 g/cc. of the matrix. The concentration of an
additive (any chemical other than activator and indicator) in any layer can range from 0.01 to
0.2 g/cc. The concentration of the indicator will be very high, nearly 100% (e.g., aluminum
only) and can be higher than 30% if a dye is used as an indicator. Thinner layer of the
indicator is preferred. Similarly, if an opaque layer is used in the device, it is preferred that
the opaque layer be the thinnest possible and concentration of the colorant be higher.
         Instead of using a color coating in the back of the metal layer and at other places, one
can use the PSA activator layer having a dye or pigment, or a message can be printed with an
adhesive containing a dye or a pigment.
         An ink which fades and becomes colored to colorless with steam and sterilants and/or
with other processes and materials disclosed herein including time, time-temperature can be
used to write messages, e.g., "NOT" of "NOT STERILIZED". For example, many dyes fade
with hydrogen peroxide and steam. Some dye formulations containing materials, such as
sodium thiocyanate change to colorless when exposed to ethylene oxide. Upon the treatment,
e.g., sterilization, the message of "NOT" becomes invisible.
         When an ink is made of metal particles and is used as an indicator, the activator has to
diffuse through the binder to reach the indicator. This type of devices may have some
properties of diffusion based devices and properties of heterogeneous reaction.
                                                107

         The permeable layer, wedge or flat can have a neutralizer. There could be an extra
layer of neutralizer as well. The permeable layer could be a polymeric neutralizer, e.g.,
polyacrylic acid or polyethyleneimine.
         Preferred method of making the tape and certain devices, such as time and time
temperature indicators is to make and store the activator and indicator tapes in form of big
rolls till needed to make the indicating devices. The rolls can subsequently be loaded onto a
suitable processing machine/equipment. In order to activate the devices, the release layer is
removed and applied to an object depending upon the indicating device and its application.
Commercially available equipment for application of labels can be used. The devices can be
pre-activated (that activator tape applied on to the indicator tape) and frozen at a lower
temperature, e.g., deep freezer or dry ice. The activated indicating device should be kept cold
till applied on the objects.
         Any solid substrate can be used as a substrate for the indicating device. Preferred
substrate is a flexible plastic film and natural (cellulose) and synthetic (e.g., spun bonded
polyolefins, e.g., Tyvek R) papers. Fiber reinforced substrate can be used for sealing tape
indicating device. Plastic substrate could be self colored (pigmented) or coated with a color
layer. It could be transparent, semi-transparent, translucent or colored with various
intensities. The polymer films include polyolefins (linear or branched), polyamides,
polystyrenes, nylons, polyesters, polyurethanes, polysulfones, styrene-maleic anhydride,
styrene-acrylonitrile, ionomers based on sodium or zinc salts of ethylene methacrylic acid,
polymethyl methacrylates,      cellulosics,   acrylic polymers    (acrylates, such as ethylene
methacrylic acid, ethylene methyl acrylate, ethylene acrylic acid and ethylene ethyl acrylate),
polycarbonates, cellophane, polyacrylonitriles, ethylene-vinyl acetate and their copolymers
can be used as substrate for the devices. The preferred substrates are polyethylene,
polypropylene, polyester, cellulose acetate, polyvinyl chloride and their copolymers.
Substrate could be porous as well, such as natural and synthetic paper and fabric for certain
applications. These substrates can be metallized.
         The substrate can have any thickness that is suitable for the intended use. The
thicknesses of the substrate can be in the range from about 8 to about 500 microns. Preferred
thickness is 25 to about 100 microns.
         Adhesives or viscoelastic materials, for example, include the use of synthetic
elastomers, acrylates, silicone, synthetic latex and vinyl acetate, as representative examples of
pressure sensitive adhesives (PSA) are one of the preferred material for the PSA layer.
Included are pressure sensitive adhesives having an elastomer or rubbery polymer as the
                                                108

elastic component and a low molecular weight tackifying viscous component. Common
rubber based pressure sensitive adhesives include natural elastomers, synthetic elastomers,
such as polychloroprene, polyurethane, and random and block copolymers of styrene
butadiene, styrene-isoprene, polyisobutylene, butyl rubber, and amorphous polypropylene.
An illustrative, but by no means exclusive, list of viscoelastic materials which may be
suitable for use with the indicator of the present invention includes natural rubber, butyl
rubber, polybutadiene and its copolymers with acrylonitrile and styrene, poly alpha olefins,
such as polyhexene, polyoctene, and copolymers of these and others, polyacrylates,
polychloroprene, silicone pressure sensitive adhesives, and block copolymers, such as
styrene-isoprene block copolymers, and mixtures of any of the above. The pressure sensitive
adhesive can comprise, for example, a polyisoprene, atactic polypropylene, polybutadiene,
polyisobutylene, silicone, ethylene vinyl acetate, or acrylate based pressure sensitive
adhesive, and can typically include a tackifying agent and/or a plasticizing agent. The
adhesives also include isooctyl acrylate (IOA) or isooctyl acrylate/acrylic acid (IOA/AA)
based pressure sensitive adhesive.
         Common acrylic adhesives, such as polymers of 2-ethylhexylacrylate, butyl acrylate,
ethylacrylate, and acrylic acid can be used. These acrylic adhesives are inherently pressure
sensitive. Polymers and copolymers of vinyl ethers, such as vinylmethylether, vinylethylether
and vinylisopropylethers are used as pressure sensitive adhesives. Two types of silicone
gums; 1) all methyl based and 2) the phenyl modified can also be used as pressure sensitive
adhesives. The silicone resin is used as a tackifier and by adjusting the resin to gum ratio,
they can be made with a wide range of adhesion properties. High silicone gum content
adhesives are extremely tacky. Silicone adhesives are also crosslinked (cured) by catalysts,
such as benzoyl peroxide and amino silane.
         Hot melt pressure sensitive adhesives typically comprise a block copolymer, a
tackifying resin and a plasticizing oil can also be used. The block copolymer provides
flexibility, integrity and smooth peel adhesion properties. It also further provides a medium
for dissolution or suspension of the tackifying resin and the plasticizing oil. The tackifying
resin enhances tack properties and adhesion and reduces viscosity and the plasticizing oil
reduces peel values, viscosities, glass transition temperatures and storage modulus and
increases flexibility.
         UV and peroxide curable adhesive can also be used. Activator can be added in the
precursor and cured with peroxide or with radiation.
                                              109

        A PSA which easily supplies, as fast as needed and least affected by activator or does
not affect activator is preferred. Some of the acrylates can be used but may not be very
suitable for certain activator, such as strong acid and bases.
        PSA is preferred but any other adhesive can be used.
        For certain devices, such as time indicating devices or visitor badges, it is preferred
that the bonding of the PSA layer is much stronger with the indicator layer so it can't be
easily tampered.
        Many water soluble/swellable polymeric systems, such as those based on plasticized
and    unplasticized   polymethyl     methacrylate,   polyethylene   glycol,  cellulose  ethers,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl methyl ether, polyaminomethylmethacrylate, polyacrylates,
copolymer of methyl and/or ethylesters of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid, vinyl
pyrrolidone/vinyl acetate, vinyl pyrrolidone, methacrylic acid, methyl methacrylate and
natural products, such as dextrin, gelatin, casein and starch can also be used a binder/PSA for
activator for monitoring humidity/moisture. The system described in US Patent Nos.
4,215,025; 4,331,576; 4,490,322; 4,775,374; 5,133,970; 5,296,512; 5,296,512; 5,395,907;
5,565,268; 6,326,524; 6,444,761 and 7,465,493; EP1458366; U.S. Patent Applications
20090018514;      20090030361      and 20090062713       and WO/1995/005416;       WO0230402;
W00021582 and WO 0154674 and references, formulations and processes cited therein can
also be used as a binder for activator and indicator. These patents and patent applications are
hereby incorporated by reference into the specification of the present invention.
        The release layer could be composed of a nonstick material which does not bond or
bonds very weakly with a PSA. The release materials include silicone, fluoropolymers such
polytetrafluoroethylene, highly crosslinked resins, and oils. The preferred release material is a
silicone and a fluoro-polymer.
        Materials which form a gel can also be used as a binder. Polymers which are
crosslinked or can be crosslinked can also be used. They include natural and synthetic
polymers, such as gelatin, agar, agarose, "Super Slurper", which is a sodium salt of 60% graft
copolymer of starch, polyacrylamide and acrylic acid. The advantage of using Super Slurper
(commercially available from the Aldrich Chemical, Milwaukee, Wis.) is that a gel can be
formed at room temperature without the necessity of heating followed by cooling to room
temperature. One can use a variety of polymers, copolymers and their mixtures as binders to
get desired properties, such as high gel strength and high gelling temperature. Polymers
which can retain solvent or activator are preferred. Water insoluble polymers which form a
gel in a combination of solvent and nonsolvent can also be used for this device. Reversible
                                                110

gel forming polymers listed in the following books and reviews can also be used: (1)
"Reversible Polymeric Gels and Related Systems", Paul S. Russo, ACS Symposium Series
#350, Washington, D.C., 1987; (2) L. L. Hench and J. K. West, Chem. Rev., 90, 33 (1990);
(3) "Hydrogels" reported by Nagasaki and K. Kataoka, in Chemtech, p2 3 March 1997; E&E
News, Jun. 9, 1997 p26, Encyclopedia of Polymer Science Technology, 7, 783 (1986); (4)
"Reversible Crosslinking", Encyclopedia of Polymer Science Technology, 4, 395, (1986), L.
Z. Rogogovina and G. L. Slonimiski, and Russian Chemical Review, 43, 503 (1974) and (5)
"Polymer Handbook" by A. Hiltner, Third Edison (J. Brandrup and E. H. Immergut Eds),
John Wiley and Sons, New York, N.Y. 1989.
        The activator resist, referred herein also as "mask", "resist" "barrier" or "etch resist",
is typically applied on the indicator layer, most often to cover only a desired portion of the
indicator layer. The activator resist and etch resist are used interchangeably herein. The
activator resist bonds with an indicator layer and being impermeable prevents the covered
portion of the indicator from being affected by it, at least during certain pre-determined
period. It is usually a least permeable layer of the activator and prevents or minimizes its
diffusion.
        Selection of activator resist will depend upon the nature of activator and the device.
Preferred activator resist materials are polymers. Many of those polymers listed herein,
including metals and some organic and inorganic compounds which are resistant to activator
can be used as resist or barrier as long as they prevent permeation of the activator. As
activators are polar, nonpolar or less polar polymers, such as polyethylene, polypropylene,
polybutylene and polystyrene will be better resists.
        The barrier/protective layer/coating could be organic, inorganic or organometallic. It
could be substantially crystalline or amorphous. The coating could be a ceramic, such as
inorganic oxides, such as aluminum oxide, tin oxide, salts, such as halides and phosphates.
When a metal is used as a barrier layer, it can act as an indicator and barrier layer. Many
metals naturally form an oxide layer. The passive layer could be other than oxide, e.g.,
phosphate and chromate. It also can be another metal layer or applied on the surface. The
barrier layer can be continuous or grainy and porous. Barrier materials can also be resist
materials.
        The barrier/protective coating can be deposited by methods, such as sputter, physical
vapor    deposition,  chemical    vapor   deposition,   thermal   evaporation,   electron   beam
evaporation, pulsed laser ablation, cathodic arc vaporization, ion beam deposition, anodizing,
conversion, powder, sol-gel, electroless plating and electroplating.
                                                111

        The thickness of the barrier will depend upon the nature of the barrier. It could be
from a few Angstroms to a millimeter.
        The barrier/protective layer should be able to disintegrate by a physical and/or
chemical reaction with an activator or precursor for an activator. Disintegratable or
destroyable layer is a material which physically or chemically changes its nature for
migration of activator which includes disintegration, degradation, falling apart, dissolving,
melting, crumbling, breaking up, collapsing, rupturing, fracturing, cracking, failing, changing
in glass transition temperature and phase changing.
        A barrier/protective layer can also react or form complex with an activator, precursor
of activator and/or an additive. Chelates can be added in the activator layer to disintegrate
the barrier layer. Solvents which dissolve the barrier layer can also be used in the activator
layer. The most preferred is an activator which reacts and destroys the barrier layer, i.e.,
becomes permeable layer.
        The devices may have both the barrier and permeable layers (or a layer which is
barrier but becomes permeable under certain conditions) over the indicator layer. In certain
cases, such as a metal like aluminum, the barrier layer could be naturally formed, e.g., by
oxidation. Indicator layer could have one naturally formed and another layer applied on to the
naturally formed layer. These layers could be one organic and another inorganic.
        The induction period observed when metallized polyester film is used an indicator can
also be due the oxide layer on aluminum layer. When 85% phosphoric acid is poured on a
metallized polyester film, there is essentially no visible reaction for almost five minutes, then
there is formation of bubbles (due to formation of hydrogen) on the metal layer and after six
minutes the layer becomes clear. No formation of hydrogen gas for five minutes probably
indicates that phosphoric acid may be reacting with top aluminum oxide layer. Formation of
hydrogen gas after the destruction of the aluminum oxide indicates that phosphoric acid
reacts with the metal. Weak acid, such as phosphoric acid may be taking longer time to
dissolve. This indicates that the low activation energy (below 10 Kcal/mole) may be due to
destruction of the aluminum oxide layer. When an aqueous solution of ferric chloride is
poured on a metallized polyester film, the metal starts dissolving at the edges of the solution
and gradually the boundary moves at center. This may be due to protection of aluminum layer
by its oxide.
        Often there    is very little line of demarcation between resist and barrier
materials/layers.
                                                112

        Permeable layer as defined herein is a layer which is permeable to activator. Any
material which lets activator diffuse or migrate through under controlled conditions can be
used to make a permeable layer. Preferred permeable layer is a polymer. The nature of the
permeable layer will depends on the activator. It is mainly used to vary/increase the time
required for the transparency change and vary the activation energy of the reaction/device.
Permeable layer materials include glassy polymers, semi-crystalline polymers, physically and
chemically crosslinked elastomers, segmented polyesters, polyamides, radiation crosslinked
polybutadiene, and pressure sensitive adhesives. Examples of suitable glassy polymers
include    polystyrene,   polyvinyls,    and    halopolymers,    such    as  polyvinylchloride,
polyepichlorohydrin and acrylates, such as polymethyl methacrylate. Examples of suitable
semi-crystalline polymers include polyethylene, polypropylene and polyesters. Examples of
suitable physically crosslinked elastomers include triblock copolymers, such as styrene
isoprene-styrene block copolymers, and segmented polyurethane elastomers. An example of a
suitable chemically cross-linked elastomer is sulfur crosslinked natural rubber. In the one
embodiment, the permeable layer material is a pressure sensitive adhesive including acrylic
pressure sensitive adhesives, silicone pressure sensitive adhesives, rubber resin blend
pressure sensitive adhesives, triblock copolymer pressure sensitive adhesives, and vinyl ether
polymer pressure sensitive adhesives. Rubber resin blend pressure sensitive adhesives include
natural rubber, polybutadiene, polyisobutelene, styrene butadiene random copolymers,
synthetic polyisoprene, and butyl rubber. Useful triblock copolymer pressure sensitive
adhesives     include    styrene-isoprene-styrene     copolymers,     styrene-butadiene-styrene
copolymers, styrene-ethylene butylene-styrene copolymers, and styrene-ethylene propylene
styrene copolymers. Commercially available latexes, and the raw (without any color)
materials for making inks, paints, lacquers, varnishes and adhesives can be used as a
permeable layer materials. Thickness of the permeable layer can be in the range of 0.001 mm
to 0.1 mm. Permeable layer could have a neutralizer of activator.
        Polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinyl acetate, partially hydrolyzed polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl
ether, cellulose derivatives, such as nitrocellulose, cellulose acetate, cellulose acetate
butyrate, methyl cellulose, ethyl cellulose, gums, such as guar gums, starch, proteins, such as
gelatin can be used as permeable layer,
        Water soluble polymers can also be used as a binder for activator, adhesive and
permeable layer. The examples of water soluble polymers include: agar, agarose, alginic
acidamylase, beta-glucan, carboxymethylcellulose, carrageenan, cellulose etherschicle gum,
chitin, dammar gum, ethylcellulose, gelatin, gellan gum, guar gum, gum arabic, gum ghatti,
                                               113

gum tragacanth, gum xanthan, hydroxy ethyl cellulose, hydroxy ethyl starch, karaya gum,
locust bean gum, mastic gum, partially hydrolyzed polyacrylamide, poly acrylamide, poly
acrylic acid, poly crotonic acid, poly hydroxy-2-ethylmethaacrylate, poly hydroxy-3-butyric
acid, poly lysine, poly methacrylic acid, poly methyl vinyl ether, poly propylene glycol, poly
vinyl acetate - partially hydrolized, poly vinyl alcohol, poly vinyl methyl ether, poly vinyl
phenol,     poly   vinyl  pyrrolidone,    polyacrylates,   polyacrylic    acids,  polyallylamine,
polyaminoacids,      polyethylene/acrylic     acid,  polycarboxylates,     polyethylene    glycol,
polyethyleneimine, polystyrene sulfonic acid, polyvinylamine, polyvinylpyrrolidone, sodium
alginate, spruce gum, tara gum, xanthan gum, their copolymers, block copolymers,
derivatives, including copolymers with water insoluble polymers. Water soluble polymers are
preferred binders for activator for thaw indicating device because when water is used as a
solvent for activator, it can freeze the whole layer and may either prevent or minimize the
migration of activator and provide controlled release of the activator.
         Sealing tape indicating device is a longer version of a time, time-temperature and
sterilization indicating devices. It can have all the basic features described herein including
activators, indicators, binders, substrates, adhesives, different layers and other properties and
processes.
         Sealing tape indicating devices could have zebra type pattern of the indicator, that
discontinuous indicator.
         The indicating sealing tape device could be applied all over the object or sealed only
where required.
         Velcro type fastener can also developed by using one part metallized while the other
coated with an activator.
         All indicating devices including sealing tape indicating devices can have a tamper
indicating feature, e.g., that created by printing with a silicone coating under the
indicator/metal layer.
         The indicating sealing tape device is preferably applied at the point where boxes are
typically sealed.
         Boxes can be pre-applied with one tape e.g., metal/activator tape on one flap and
activated later on by applying the activator tape. Other enclosures such as envelops can be
made this way.
         Activated indicating device can be applied under the existing sealing tape so one does
not need to re-formulate or change currently used tape for a particular application.
                                                 114

        In addition to making sealing tape of the current inventions (e.g., those shown in
Example 10 and Figure 35), we also made some sealing tapes for (1) steam sterilization using
a commercially available formulations, such as that of lead and bismuth, (2) sterilization with
ethylene oxide, (3)    hydrogen peroxide and its plasma (all obtained from NAMSA,
Northwood, Ohio), (4) time-temperature, temperature and radiation indicating tapes made
from a diacetylene 4BCMU [R-C-C-C=C-R, where R            = (CH 2) 40CONH(CH 2)COO(CH 2) 4H]
and its partially polymerized form and (5) time and time-temperature indicating tape made
from a tape from a commercially available direct thermal film (Product #TF200C Clear D.T.,
IIMAK, Amherst, NY) and our phosphoric acid activator tape. Small boxes were sealed with
the above tapes and were subjected to the appropriate conditions. However, all these tapes
displayed gradual color changes.
        As the current devices have a thin and highly opaque indicator layer, which becomes
transparent at the end of the reaction, one can print (1) a message on the indicator layer (e.g.,
aluminum layer) or on a surface of any layer above the indicator layer and (2) another
message below the indicator on a surface of any layer below the indicator layer. Both the
messages could be the same or different shapes, patterns, numbers, photos, images or
barcode, aligned properly if required. Both the messages could form a new or different
message or that of different colors. If one message is yellow color and the other could be any
other color, e.g., blue, the message will appear green when the indicator layer becomes
transparent. By properly aligning the two images, one can create an optical effect of two or
three dimensional effect and hence if tampered can be known and authenticity of the indicator
confirmed. If the images are barcodes, one can make them non-readable or vice versa or
properly readable when the indicator layer becomes transparent. This is a different and a
better method to make a barcode readable or non readable or read both of them than disclosed
in U.S. Patent No. 7,157,048. In the current invention, the barcodes are printed on different
layers.
        These chemical indicating devices can also have almost all features of time and time
temperature indicating devices described herein and vice versa.
        As the device has a thin conductive metal layer, a change in a device can be
detected/monitored with a small and sensitive metal detector. As the device is reflective, it can
be read from a distance using a CCD type camera and other scanners.
        As the device has two-tapes, the device can be assembled with a substantially
impermeable release layer, e.g., a release plastic film between the tapes. This device is
                                               115

activated by pulling the impermeable layer film out and pressing the tapes to activate the
device.
        One also can create a moving boundary as described in Figures 10 and 34 by using a
non-uniform, wedge shaped permeable layer between the activator and the indicator layers.
        Moving boundary version of a time, time-temperature and sterilization indicating
devices can additionally have all the basic features described herein including activators,
precursor for activators, indicators, binders, substrates, adhesives, different layers and other
properties and processes.
        The moving boundary devices could have a scale and/or numbers to indicate degree
of the reaction. It also could have most of the messages and images of those having no
permeable layer or that of uniform thickness.
        The moving boundary devices can generate a series of messages for example for
reminding when to take a drug/medicine. Take 1st,        2d, 3 d ... dose etc . This will remind
patients and others when to take a prescribed drug or other instruction do this, do that, don't
do this etc. Pharmacists can apply the indicators when a prescription is filled.
        The moving boundary devices could have a top layer with windows to see selected
portions of the boundary. The scale and messages can also be on the top of the device or on
any other layer of the device.
        The moving boundary devices can be created for other indicating device disclosed
herein, for example, steam, ethylene oxide, plasma of oxidants, such as hydrogen peroxide,
formaldehyde, dry heat, temperature and radiation.
        As shown in Figure 10 and demonstrated in a prototype device made manually in
Figure 34, the movement of the boundary is sharper and linear with time. The linear
movement of the boundary with time differentiate this indicating device from similar other
devices and make this indicating device much more useful. Very few reactions and none of
the indicating device reported in the literature has zero order reaction, i.e., linear with time.
This is the uniqueness of this device.
        We have discovered that a diffusion based sterilization, TTI and other types of
moving boundary indicating devices can also be created by replacing the liquid material with
an activator/precursor and the porous substrate with a layer of a metal. For certain devices,
such as sterilization indicators, one needs to select a proper activator/precursor, which reacts
with a material to be detected, e.g., vapor of a chemical including humidity, steam, ethylene
oxide and hydrogen peroxide produces a liquid product or dissolve the activator/precursor
and reacts with a metal layer. The solution of the activator can then flow and depending upon
                                               116

the design can create a moving boundary device by etching the metal layer. In case of other
devices, such as TTI, one can use an activator which is a solution or a molten liquid. The
indicator strip could be a metallized porous substrate, metallized PET film having a wettable
coating or any porous substrate, such as a strip of paper. A coloring/indicating material can
be added in the activator or substrate so the movement of the boundary can be seen.
         The band and other indicating device can have an outer surface, an inner surface and
first and second ends. The band could also have some additional layers including an adhesive
layer so it can be applied on an object. An indicating layer is on the outer surface of the band
proximate the first end. The activator layer can be in proximate to the second end. The
activator is applied on the inner surface of the band proximate the second end. When the band
is wrapped around an object, e.g., a user's wrist, with the outer surface exposed, the outer
surface of the first end and the inner surface of the second end overlay and are in contact,
preferably in adhesive contact, with each other. The activator and indicator react to cause a
visually perceptible change. Such visually perceptible change is viewable from the outer
surface.
         The band and other indicating devices can have a device, such as an extended layer of
an adhesive tape, Velcro or snap-in button etc for further securing the integrity of the band.
         Length of the band will depend upon the object it is intended for and could vary from
a cm long to several meters or longer.
         It can be used as a bracelet incorporating a patient name, a patient number or other
identifying information.
         The band could have a tamper indicating mechanism.
         Substrate for the band could be a paper, cloth, woven or non-woven film.
         The band disclosed herein could be an identification band, time indicating band, time
temperature indicating band or sterilization band.
         In certain cases the devices can be inactivated, e.g., when acids are used as activator,
bases, such as ammonia can be used to inactivate the devices. Sometimes gases, such as
ethylene oxide can be used for inactivation as well.
         Any design, pattern, messages, images and alike can be created by printing with a
mask and etching the unmasked metal layer with hot water, steam or an activator tape. This
procedure is much simpler and safer to create any type of design, pattern, messages, images,
greeting cards, photo, electronic circuits and alike than by etching by other etchants, such as
that with a liquid acid or a base. Games, toys, gimmicks, entertainment, secret messages etc
can be created by this process.
                                                117

        The activation energy for the TI and TTI devices reported in the literature is usually
higher than 15 kcal/mole, usually around 25 Kcal/mole. The activation energy of the etching
reaction of the current device is only about 7 kcal/mole. This makes the current indicating
device very suitable as time indicating device. Higher activation energy, e.g., higher than 20
Kcal/mole can be obtained by using a proper permeable or barrier layer. The permeable layer
lets the activator diffuse through and hence time required for the change can be varied by
varying the nature and thickness of the permeable layer.
        In addition to those mentioned herein, by selecting proper indicator, such as a metal,
metal alloy of varying metal ratio and alike (e.g., aluminum, copper, copper-aluminum
alloys) and activators, precursors and mixtures of them, one can achieve from very low (a
few Kcal/mole) to a very high (e.g., 100 Kcal/mole or higher) activation energy (Ea). The
activation energy can also be varied by varying nature of binder and additives.
        An indicating device having a metal layer on each side of a substrate, e.g., both
having the same or different thicknesses can also be used. This device would need two
activator tapes, one on each side. The activator tapes could also be of different nature and one
or both the layers can be activated. Thus, the device essentially becomes a double indicating
device. This double indicating device could also have all other features described herein.
        An indicating device having an activator layer on each side of a substrate can also be
used. Either single sided or two sided metallized plastic films can be applied on each side of
the double activator tape. The activator and indicator layers could also be of different nature
and one or both the activator layers can be activated. Thus, this device essentially becomes a
double indicating device. This double indicating device could also have all other features
described herein.
        Devices can also be created by having an activator layer on each side of the metal
layer. For the sealing tape indicating device, the activator layer could be narrower than the
activator layer and vice versa. Activated tape can be applied on current sealing tape.
        The RFID-indicating device can be used on an individual object or on a box/package
containing many objects, such as perishables. It can be used as TI, TTI and SI. RFID
indicating device is ideal for visitor's badges, managing entrance and exit of people and
inventory control of perishables. The current indicating device can also be applied on a RFID
device as well. One can also use a commercially available RFID or similar devices, e.g.,
electronic time or time-temperature indicating devices and indicating device on the same
object. The current device can be applied on electronic time-temperature loggers as well.
                                               118

        The RFID-indicating device can also be applied inside or outside an object, such as a
box.
        The dispensing system for the RFID-indicating device could be in form of two rolls,
one that of RFID inlay and the other that of an activator tape.
        RFID-indicating device inlays or its portion which we don't need to etch could have a
protective film, coat of protective layer, e.g., etch mask.
        There could be one chip and many different antennas of different nature, thickness etc
connected to the same chip and activated with a tape of different thicknesses including wedge
shaped activator. RFID-indicating device could also have one antenna and two chips as well
one of them can get etched away.
        RFID-indicating device can be written and read essentially the same way as normal
RFID. The same software and equipment can be used. All commonly used compositions,
devices and processes of writing, reading and reporting the information related to RFID are
incorporated herein as references.
        There could be more than one RFID and RFID-indicating devices on an object.
        The inventions reported herein for etching antenna of a RFID device can be used to
create or destroy circuits of many electronic devices.
        The circuit in the printed circuit boards, RFID, EAS and similar devices disclosed
herein could have more than one electronic chips or components for monitoring different
parameters, such as time, time-temperature and other effects disclosed herein simultaneously.
        All other devices disclosed herein can also have an RFID device.
        Other display devices can be connected to RFID, to display change in conductivity.
        Inexpensive RFID tags can be created by techniques proposed herein and by creating
electronic chip from organic semi-conducting materials.
        Like RFID one can make magnetic tape inactive by dissolving iron oxide of the
magnetic tape with an activator.
        The present invention is also directed towards a very thin metal conductive layer
which is formed by vapor deposition or sputtering of the conductive metal on a polymeric
film substrate or metal film which is then coated or printed with an activator which has
capability of etching the metal. The printed activator will be in form of pattern of an
electronic circuitry. The polymeric film substrate can be made of any plastic, preferably an
epoxy-based polymer.
        Preferably, the polymer film comprises a flexible, dimensionally stable material with
good tear and chemical resistances. The polymer film should be able to tolerate above
                                                 119

ambient temperatures. Preferably, the polymer film is made of a material having low
absorbed moisture and residual solvent.
         The polymer film suitable for the practice of the present invention include polyesters,
such as polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate and polyethylene naphthalate,
polypropylene, polyvinyl fluoride, polyimides, nylons and their copolymers. The other
polymeric material suitable for the present invention also include (but not limited to) epoxy
resins cured by phenolic or dicyandiamide hardeners, cyanate esters, bismaleimides, and
polyimide systems.
         The metals suitable for the present invention include zinc, indium, tin, cobalt,
aluminum, chrome, nickel, nickel-chrome, brass, bronze or their alloys. Other suitable metals
include magnesium, titanium, manganese, bismuth, molybdenum, silver, gold, tungsten,
zirconium, antimony and their alloys.
         Polymeric layers for the metal and the protection include at least one suitable
thermoplastic polymer. These layers can also be formed of the same material, or they can be
formed of different materials. Specific examples of suitable thermoplastic polymers include,
polyethylene,    polystyrene,    polycarbonate,    polyethylene  terephthalate, glycol-modified
polyethylene terephthalate, polyvinylchloride,        thermoplastic  polyurethane,   acrylonitrile
butadiene styrene, polymethylmethacrylate, polypropylene, polyvinyl fluoride, polyethylene
naphthalate,    polymethylpentene,      polyimide,   polyetherimide,  polyether    ether  ketone,
polysulfone, polyether sulfone, ethylene chlorotrifluoroethylene, cellulose acetate, cellulose
acetate butyrate, plasticized polyvinyl chloride, polyester polycarbonate blends, ionomers,
and co-extruded films or sheets of these thermoplastics, etc. The thermoplastic polymers can
be elastomeric thermoplastics, and are commonly referred to as thermoplastic elastomer.
         The circuitry including antennae for EAS systems can be created using the same or
similar devices, formulations and processes disclosed herein for creation of RFID and other
electronic devices, which would include creation of proper circuitry on both the sides of a
proper substrate.
         The EAS or security systems disclosed here can be used for detecting and preventing
theft or unauthorized removal of articles or goods from retail establishments and/or other
facilities, such as libraries. The EAS device or EAS tag can be affixed to, associated with, or
otherwise secured to an article or item to be protected or its packaging. The EAS may take on
many different sizes, shapes, and forms, depending on the particular type of security system
in use, the type and size of the article, etc.
                                                120

         The security tags that are the subject of this invention can be designed to work with
electronic security systems that sense disturbances in radio frequency (RF) electromagnetic
fields. Such electronic security systems generally establish an electromagnetic field in a
controlled area defined by portals through which articles must pass in leaving the controlled
premises. The resonant tag circuit is attached to each article, and the presence of the tag
circuit in the controlled area is sensed by a receiving system to denote the unauthorized
removal of an article. The tag circuit is deactivated, detuned or removed by authorized
personnel from any article authorized to leave the premises to permit passage of the article
through the controlled area with alarm activation.
         As microwave burn and disintegrate a thin layer of metal, a design for RFID, circuits,
pattern, designs, printing plates etc can also be created by selective irradiation with
microwave.
         Instead of circuits and other patterns, it is also possible to prepare printing plates for
presses by printing the desired image on a metallized substrate with a mask type ink (e.g.,
using an inkjet printer) or tonner followed by etching with an activator tape and then
removing the activator tape when fully etched. It is also possible to create hydrophobic and
hydrophilic areas by the selective etching.
         The activator tape or a coating of activator can be used for etching names and other
information on metal items e.g., wire, films, blocks, pots, containers and tools. One can write
the information with a marker/mask, apply activator tape and remove when etched. The
nature and concentration of etchant will depend upon the metal and alloy. Similar tapes can
be made for etching ceramics/glass and plastics, e.g., by reaction of sodium fluoride and an
acid, i.e., by applying one tape/coating of one-precursor first followed by applying the second
tape/coating of the second precursor which will produce an etchant. This will minimize the
hazard and makes the process simple. Apply a tape containing phosphoric acid, followed by
that of sodium nitrite/sodium nitrate to produce nitrous/nitric acid for etching metals.
         This process can also be used to create small and large signs and boards by selective
etching of environmentally resistant metals and alloys.
         The steam sterilization device disclosed here is a primary or direct device where the
reactant is an activator.
         The steam sterilization indicating device will be identical to that shown herein for TI
and TTI. However, the steam sterilization devices do not need an activator or activator tape
all the time because water acts as an activator. Hence, a metallized plastic film can be used as
a steam sterilization indicating device.
                                                121

        The steam sterilization indicating device can also have all the basic features described
herein including activators, indicators, binders, substrates, adhesives, different layers and
other properties.
        A multi-cycle sterilization indicating device can also be developed by several means,
such as using a thicker aluminum layer which will dissolve only after certain number of
cycles. Moving boundary is one example where it can be used for multi-cycle indicating
device.
        The steam sterilization indicating device could have printed thereon, under or on the
side other indicating devices, such as that for ethylene oxide.
        In addition to process indicating devices which indicate that an object has gone
through a process of sterilization, higher classes of indicating devices, integrators and
emulators can also be created by using proper activators, indicators, devices and processes
disclosed herein.
        Class 2: Indicators used for specific test procedures. Air-removal tests for vacuum
steam sterilizers fall into this category. These indicators assess only the efficiency of the
vacuum pump and the presence of air leaks or gases in the steam. They indicate the efficiency
of the air removal system but not sterilization efficacy. As etching of metals also depends on
presence or absence of air for oxidation and condensation of steam, one can also develop
class 2 indicating devices.
        Class 3: Single-parameter indicating devices. These indicating devices are designed to
respond to one critical sterilization parameter, such as temperature. A common type of class 3
indicating device is a glass temperature tube containing a chemical that melts and changes
color when a minimum temperature is reached. These indicating devices do not indicate the
total time at one temperature or whether the temperature was exceeded. They are used to
determine whether the appropriate temperature was achieved at the center of large packs. By
selecting a proper activator which melts at a desired temperature, one can create class 3
indicating devices.
        Class 4: Multi-parameter indicating devices. These indicating devices are designed to
indicate exposure to a sterilization cycle at stated values of the chosen parameters while also
reacting to two critical parameters of sterilization. An example of this type of indicating
device would be one containing ink that changes color when exposed to the correct
combination of sterilization parameters. As etching of metals also depends on time and
temperature or temperature and steam (or other sterilants), one can also develop class 4
indicating devices by selecting a proper pair of activator and indicator.
                                                122

         Class 5: An indicating device/integrator sensitive to two or more parameters, and
reacting within 15 % of expected targets. In this category, the change of color must be abrupt,
happens within 15 % of expected targets and must not happen if the targeted temperature is
not achieved within 1C. For example, an indicating device that accepts (OK or pass) at
132 0 C for 4 min must reject (fail) a 131 C for 3 minutes and 22 seconds. As etching of metals
also depends on time, temperature, steam (and other sterilant) and have sharp induction
period including the moving boundary devices, one can also create class 5 indicators by
selecting a proper pair of activator and indicator.
         Class 6: An indicating device/integrator sensitive to two or more parameters, and
reacting within 6 % of expected targets. In this category, the change of color must be abrupt,
happens within 6% of expected targets and must not happen if the targeted temperature is not
achieved within 1C. For example, an indicating device that accepts (OK or pass) at 132 0 C
for 4 min must reject (fail) a 131 C for 3 minutes and 45 seconds. As etching of metals also
depends on time, temperature and steam (and other sterilant) and have sharp induction period
including the moving boundary devices, one can also develop class 6 indicating devices by
selecting a proper pair of activator and indicator.
         Similarly high classes of indicating       devices/integrators for other sterilization
processes, such as ethylene oxide, plasma, formaldehyde, dry heat and radiation can be made
by using the activators, indicators, devices and processes disclosed herein for those indicating
devices.
         We have observed that dissolution of a thin aluminum layer of aluminum under steam
get delayed if there is condensation of water on the metal layer. Thus one can make devices,
such as Bowie-Dick by using metallized plastic film or those having a special coating which
can be wetted, dissolved, swollen with water but not by dry steam. Patterned coating of a
permeable material on the metal layer can be used as Bowie-Dick devices. If there is
condensation during the steam sterilization process, that portion of the metal will not get
etched.
         Instead of using continuous plated plastic film one can use designed, ruled, fine lined
metallized plastic films.
         Water based inks may have a coating to prevent tarnish and reaction with activator but
at high temperature it could melt of dissolve and hence can be used for steam sterilization
indicating device. For water based metal powder, the activator could be water insoluble and
vice versa.
                                                123

         The reaction does not require complete dissolution of metal powder as long as it can
be tarnished by an activator.
         The metal particles could be nano sized to large flakes.
         Dry heat indicating devices including dry heat sterilization indicating devices can be
created by selecting a proper etchant which melts at or below the dry heat temperature used
for sterilization or similar processes. The matrix could be essentially any, e.g., a PSA, hot
melt adhesive or just a coating of the activator in a non-adhesive resin. Non-adhesive matrix
is preferred for the dry heat indicating device. The molten activator can etch the
metal/indicator. These devices can also be used for microwave doneness indicating device,
especially when the metal layer is very thin.
         Polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyvinylidene chloride (PVDC), halogenated polyolefins
and other halogenated polymers and their copolymers are suitable as activators for dry heat
indicating devices as well. For examples, when coatings of a PVDC containing fine particles
of aluminum, zinc, copper and their alloys are heated at 160 0 C, they undergo a transparency
change, most likely by reaction of hydrochloric acid (produced due to thermal decomposition
of the halides) with the metals. Other additives, activators, precursors for activators and
catalysts can be used to alter the reaction rate.
         Salts, especially that of strong acids, such as sulfonic acids and amines, e.g., primary
amines, especially that of long chain which melt at desired temperature can also be used for
making a dry heat or temperature indicating device.
         The activator could also be microencapsuled. The microcapsule should rupture at or
below 160 0 C for monitoring sterilization with dry heat.
         An ink or paint formulation composed of fine particles of a metal, such as aluminum
and its alloys, a binder, a vehicle and a reactant, such as an acid, base, salt or oxidizing agent
(including their precursors) having capability of reacting with the said metal or a dried
coating of it on a substrate can be used as indicating devices disclosed herein, e.g., steam
sterilization indicating device. The reactant will react with the metal and either tarnish or
completely dissolve (react with) it. One can also add a dye or pigment in the said ink or paint.
The added dye or pigment may or may not necessarily have to undergo a color change with
steam. For example, when auramine-O is added in silvery ink of aluminum, it appears gold
color. Upon steam treatment, auramine-O becomes colorless and gold color coating changes
to silvery white. There are a number of dyes and pigment which undergo color changes, e.g.,
Janus green B, Basic blue 66 and basic blue 41 change to red and then essentially become
colorless when steam treated and hence they and similar other dyes and pigments can be used
                                                 124

to get other color changes with steam. Thus, dyes and pigments, whether they change color or
not can be added in the steam sterilization indicating device.
        The activator for steam and other indicating devices could also be water insoluble for
water based inks and solvent insoluble for solvent based inks.
        By adding proper activators and/or precursors in a metallic ink (ink having fine
particles of a metal or alloy) one can also make a variety of other indicating inks. For an
example, by adding temperature activators/precursor in a metallic ink one can create a
thermochromic inks for different temperature. Similarly, one can create inks for a number of
other processes such as time, time-temperature, pressure, radiation and materials such as
humidity, chemicals, chemical and biological agents.
        The binder system for indicating compositions according to the present invention may
comprise a film-forming carrier which is permeable to steam and other sterilants in order to
obtain a satisfactory change under steam sterilization conditions. Preferably, binder systems
provide steam sterilization and other indicating devices with film-forming properties, good
adhesion to objects, and heat and moisture resistance. The ink of the invention preferably
also comprises a binder. The binder may comprise any water resistant, heat resistant polymer.
Suitable polymers include soluble polymers such as ethyl and nitro cellulose, cellulose
acetate   and its derivatives,    hydroxypropyl    cellulose, polystyrene, polymethacrylates,
polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl acetate; emulsion latexes, such as polyvinylidene chloride,
acrylics and polyvinyl acetate; cross-linking resins, such as phenol-formaldehyde, urea
formaldehyde and melamine-formaldehyde; polyethylene, polypropylene, polyurethanes,
polyesters,   polycarbonates,    polybutylene,  polyvinylbutyral,   polybutadiene,  and their
copolymers, UV curing systems; and drying oils.
        One aspect of the invention is an ink that includes an aqueous dispersion of a metallic
pigment and a film-forming resin. The metallic pigment can be a leafing (typically flaked) or
non-leafing type. A metallic pigment preferably is a metal pigment selected from the group
consisting of aluminum, copper, bronze, oxides thereof, anodizes thereof (e.g., to provide an
iridescent finish), and combinations of any of the foregoing. The metallic pigment is also
defined to include other lustrous substances that can provide a metallic or iridescent
appearance, such as pearlescent agents (e.g., bismuth oxychloride (BiOCl)), which can be
used in addition to, or instead of, a metal pigment.
                                               125

         Though larger metal particles can be used for applications disclosed herein, preferred
size is less than about 15 microns or in a range of about 2 to 15 microns. The metal pigment
preferably is included in an ink in a range of about 2 wt. % to about 30 wt. %, preferably
about 5 wt. % to about 10.
         Suitable film-forming resins also include water-soluble resins, such as hydantoin
formaldehyde       co-polymers,   e.g., dimethylhydantoin-formaldehyde        (DMHF)     and  5,5
dimethylhydantoin formaldehyde polymer (also called 5,5-dimethyl-2,4-imidazolidinedione).
A preferred is dimethyl hydantoin-formaldehyde film-forming resin. Other resins for use in
an ink of the invention include polyvinyl alcohol and water-borne urethane polymers. The
film-forming resin preferably is included in an ink in a range of about 10 wt. % to about 70
wt. % and preferably about 30 wt. % to wt. 50 %.
         An anti-settling agent can be added in very small quantities. It can aid in the stability
of the ink. Preferably, an anti-settling agent is present in the ink in a range of about 0.001 wt.
% to about 0.11 wt. %. A preferred anti-settling agent for use in an ink is gums, such as
xanthan gum.
         It is also preferred to add a preservative (e.g., a fungicide and/or bactericide) to the
ink formulation. An example of preservative is 1,2-benzisothiazolin-3-one in a range of about
0.05 wt. % to about 0.15 wt. %.
         The devices disclosed herein, can also be made by applying a coating of an activator
or a precursor for an activator in a UV curable binder followed by curing with radiation, such
as UV light. There may be an additional protective layer to protect the activator coat from the
ambient conditions. Selection of the activator, precursor, binder, curing agent and any
additive will depend upon the application the device it is intended for. For example, to make
a humidity indicator, one can coat phosphorous pentoxide in a UV curable binder which is
permeable to water vapor on a metallized plastic film. When exposed to water, phosphorous
pentoxide, being very hygroscopic will react with water to form phosphoric acid and etch the
metal layer.
         This type of UV curing method is a preferred method of making the devices disclosed
herein as the method is fast.
         The binder should be permeable to the material used for processing, e.g., steam,
ethylene oxide, hydrogen peroxide, formaldehyde etc.
         The activator layer can have fine nano to micro particles of materials, such as zinc
oxide, titanium dioxide, microcrystalline cellulose. This may help for uniform reaction on the
surface.
                                                126

        Antioxidant, such as butylated hydroxyanisole and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT)
can be added to minimize oxidation.
        Humectants, such as propylene glycol, super absorbing polymers, sorbitol and lactic
acid can be added in the activator layer to prevent drying out of the devices herein.
        For many applications, such as steam indicating devices or where water is used as a
component or affects the performance of the indicator, it is preferred to use water insoluble
resins, self crosslinking emulsions, latexes, solutions of resins upon drying or heating.
        Microwave doneness indicating device may have many of the general features of all
other indicating device disclosed herein.
        Though many of the designs, formulations and processes disclosed herein can be used
as microwave doneness indicating device with proper modifications by using a very thin
layer of aluminum metal (normally referred as susceptor in prior art) having optical density in
the range of 0.05 to 0.5, most preferred are those having optical density of about 0.2.
        The microwave doneness indicating device could be anywhere in or on, inner or outer
surface of the container. These indicating devices can also be incorporated as part of the
container or as a part of a heating pad. The design can also be identical to that of microwave
susceptor reported in the prior art.
        The activators for microwave doneness indicating device will be higher melting
compounds which melts at a desired temperature and etches the metal. The activator could
also be microencapsulated.
        The time temperature indicating (TTI) devices disclosed herein can also be used for
self-heating packages that function without application of external energy. Heat is generated
by contact of a heat-producing composition, such as calcium oxide and an activating solution
which is typically water. TTI for self-heating packages would require higher temperature
activator or weaker activator and/or strong/resistant or thicker indicator. Many of those
activators and indicators listed herein can be used. Activators which melt at elevated
temperatures would be preferred for self-heating packages. This indicating device could be
anywhere in or on, inner or outer surface of the container
        The thaw (freeze to thaw) indicating device for monitoring frozen state and shelf life
of the frozen items/perishables, such as frozen foods will be essentially identical to that of
time-temperature indicating device, e.g., composed of an activator tape and an indicator tape,
and made essentially by the same methods as described herein. The major difference will be
the state of the activator or activator layer. The activator for the thaw indicating device will
become essentially solid and/or non-migratable/nondiffusable in case of the thaw indicating
                                                127

devices when the item it is applied on is frozen. The indicator tape will be essentially the
same as that of the time-temperature, e.g., a thin layer of an adhesive containing activator on
a substrate. One can make a thaw indicating device, e.g., by applying an indicator tape over
and activator tape.
        The temperature and time-temperature required for the transparency change can be
varied by adding a co-activator, salts or a solvent.
        A thaw indicating device can also be created by making (1) an indicator tape by
coating a layer which becomes clear when contacted with water or water vapor over a metal
layer or any printed message and (2) an activator tape by coating a water based adhesive and
partial drying. A thaw device is created by applying the activator tape over the indicator and
freezing. If the device is brought to temperature above freezing, the ice in glue will melt and
slowly diffuse through the opaque layer and make it clear, thereby making the metal layer or
message printed underneath visible. The indicator tape may have an activator which can get
dissolved with water and etches the metal layer.
        A thaw indicating device can also be developed from a mixture of fine metal particles
and an activator which melts at 00 C and slowly dissolves the metal particles. A UV curing
binder would be better for this type of systems. A low temperature (below 00 C, e.g., -40 0 C)
indicating device can be developed by selecting proper activator having such low melting
point.
        A freeze indicating device can be prepared, for example, by coating microcapsules on
a metallized plastic film, whereby the microcapsules rupture when frozen and release an
etchant/activator. Proper core materials, such as activator and solvent and membrane/wall
material need to be selected for making the microcapsules for the freeze indicating device. By
selecting proper materials and methods of microencapsulation one can make microcapsules
which would rupture upon freezing and release the activator in them.
        A number of activators listed herein can be used for the freeze indicating device. Both
water soluble and water immiscible activators can be used. Liquid activators which are not
miscible with water and can be encapsulated with water. Preferred solvent for the activators
is water. A co-solvent or a chemical which changes the freezing point of water can be used
for changing the temperature required for freezing. It is preferred that the co-solvent is water
miscible.
        The freeze indicating device will provide the time delay required for the color change
and will have many other properties of time-temperature as disclosed herein.
                                                128

         A mixture of two different types of microcapsules, e.g., one containing an activator or
a solvent which does not freeze solid while the other containing an activator or a solvent
which does freeze solid when cooled to a pre-determined low temperature can also be used.
         The activator does not need to be frozen solid when cooled. If the activator does not
freeze solid but has some vapor pressure or volatility, it can still react with the metal and can
introduce the changes.
         Once the activator is released, the device could become a time-temperature indicating
device. The transparency change will be faster above the freezing temperature. The etching
could also change color during thawing and can be used as a thaw indicating device. Thus by
selecting proper activator, solvent, co-solvent or mixture thereof, one can develop either
freeze or thaw indicating device.
         The microencapsulated activator could be dispersed in a binder, including a pressure
sensitive adhesive and applied on a metallized plastic film. The adhesive could be prepared
by coating UV curable monomers and/or oligomers so it can be easily coated without
rupturing them.
         Instead of microcapsules one can use any similar device or mechanism which
provides controlled release of activator.
         Activators or solvents which can phase separate (e.g., as described in US Patent
6,472,214) and etch metal layer can also be used.
         These freeze devices will essentially be a solid state and thin freeze indicating
devices.
         These temperature indicating devices can also have almost all features of time and
time-temperature indicating devices described herein and vice versa.
         Many liquids either expand or contract significantly upon freezing. Water is an
example. It expands by ten percents upon freezing. Many materials, such as metals and
plastics have vast difference in their expansion and contraction during heating and cooling,
i.e., significant difference in thermal expansion coefficient. A thin coating of a brittle material
on another material having sufficient difference in thermal expansion coefficient can result
into cracking of the brittle material. For example, unplasticized polyvinyl chloride is a brittle
plastic has thermal expansion coefficient of 52 x 10-6 per K compared to 23 x 10-6 per K for
aluminum. The dye solution can pass through the crack and indicate the cracking thereby
change in temperature or freezing. The thermal expansion coefficient of water at 50 C is 0.16
x  10-4 per K compared to -0.68 x 10-4 per K at 00 C.
                                                129

         Similarly, an adhesive, e.g., pressure sensitive adhesive containing some water (e.g.,
partially dried an aqueous pressure sensitive adhesive formulation) containing a coloring
material can be applied on a thin layer of a brittle material, especially an opaque brittle
material. Upon freezing (e.g., below 00 C) water will expand and being a part of an adhesive
which is bonded to the brittle layer, it can crack the thin brittle layer. Upon thawing the
colored water can diffuse through and can indicate the freezing. If the partially dried adhesive
also has a colored liquid which does not freeze, it can diffuse through the cracks and indicate
the freezing while in the frozen state.
        One can also use microencapsulated color water containing an activator to make the
freeze device. One can also use the phase separation technique disclosed in US Patent No.
6,472,214 to release an activator.
        One can print a message or image on the substrate of the device and under the
dispersion of formulations disclosed in US Patent No. 7,343,872 and similar formulations
which become clear from opaque. When the dispersion formulations described in that patent
become substantially clear or transparent upon freezing. One can also make emulsion of two
liquids, such as water, toluene. The latex or emulsion could be just a single component and
no additive of any kind or simply having nano particles for nucleation or dye having light
green color and the background red, so when it melts light green will become much lighter
and bright red with message "frozen" will appear. The message could be any.
        The freeze indicator tape may also contain devices, formulations and processes
disclosed in US Patent # 6,472,214 and 7,343,872 or any commercially available devices,
such as those based on rupturing of microcapsules including those available commercially
from American Thermal Instruments, Dayton, Ohio.
        If the wall material of the microcapsules is made from materials, such as fatty chain,
wax and other compounds as disclosed in US Patent nos. 6,602,594, 4,729,671 and 4,643,588
one can create a temperature indicating devices.
        High temperature (above 25 0 C) indicating devices can be developed by using the
materials and processes disclosed herein for freeze-thaw indicating devices for higher
temperatures, e.g., by using an activator which melts at the desired temperature.
        By selecting a proper alloy for the indicator can be made highly sensitive
moisture/humidity and can be used as a humidity indicating device. Similarly, one can make
oxygen indicating device. Metals useful for humidity and oxygen indicating device are
sodium, lithium, potassium, cesium and alike and their alloys. In the cases of humidity, steam
                                                130

and oxygen indicating devices, oxygen and water are activators. Fine powder of metals, such
as aluminum and indium can be used as desiccant.
        Several metals and metal oxide, such as sodium and calcium and their oxides can be
used as precursor for activator for moisture indicating devices. Non-metal hygroscopic and
desiccant materials, such as anhydrides, phosphorus and its oxides can also be used. P2 0 5 ,
phosphorous pentoxide (and its homologs) is a desired precursor because it is extremely
hygroscopic and produces an acid (phosphoric acid) reacts with water and etches metals. A
coating of dissolved or finely dispersed phosphorous pentoxide on a metal layer can be used
as a humidity indicating device.
        Phosphorous oxychloride (POCl 3 ) reacts with water to produce HCl. Phosphorous
pentachloride and trichloride (PCl5 and PCl 3 ), which produce an acid can be used as
precursors   for activators   for monitoring moisture/humidity. These materials can be
microencapsulated. Similarly, halides which decompose at higher temperatures to produce
acids can be used for other indicators including sterilization, especially for steam.
        The humidity indicators can be used in diapers as wetness indicators.
        An activator for a humidity indicating device was created by coating a solution of
polyethylene oxide in methanol containing p-toluene sulfonic acid on Teflon coated polyester
release film followed by drying in an oven at 80 0 C. A humidity indicating device was created
by applying the dried coating on a metallized polyester film and removing the release liner.
The device was exposed to ambient humidity (about 80%). The metal layer got dissolved in
about 2 hours.
        An oxygen scavenger, absorber, or reactants which can produce an activator can be
used for monitoring time and time-temperature after opening a container.
        Metal alloys, such as bronze alloy which gets etched (tin or zinc getting etched and
leaving copper behind which turns black when exposed to ambient conditions) can be used
for monitoring ambient conditions after opening a container. Microporous metals and or fine
particles of metals which oxidize/react with air/oxygen and/or water can be used for
monitoring air time after opening a container.
        White and yellow phosphorus reacts with oxygen but not with water and produces
phosphorus oxide which when reacts with water/humidity produces phosphoric acid which is
an activator. Thus white or yellow phosphorus, e.g., thin coating or encapsulated, can be used
for monitoring time after opening a container. Oxygen reactive compounds which produce an
activator can be used for these applications.
                                               131

        When a thin layer of a metal is used as an indicator for monitoring sterilization, the
device can also have almost all features of time and time-temperature indicating devices
described herein and vice versa. The sterilization indicating devices can have essentially
identical designs, shapes, sizes, colors, patterns, numbers, photos, images or barcodes and
made to undergo essentially identical changes as time and time-temperature indicating
devices described herein and vice versa. There will be some changes required depending
upon the application.
        The dosimeters, monitors and indicating devices disclosed herein are mainly
presented in form of two dimensional indicating devices. Using the activators, indicators and
binders disclosed/described herein, one can also make three dimensional indicating devices
by making them thicker. A three dimensional dosimeter for ionizing radiation can be made by
materials and processes disclosed herein. A polymeric material having ultra fine particles of a
metal and an activator/precursor can be made for the 3D dosimetry. The device can also be
made by alternating multi layers of an indicator and an activator/precursor.
        Wear indicating devices are known in the art, e.g., US Patent No. # 7,267,880. It is
also possible to create a wear indicating devices by using the materials and processes
disclosed herein. Wear indicating device includes rub, scuff, grind, erode and use/discard
indicating device. Many devices, e.g., razor should be not be used or not recommended to be
used after certain uses or wear. A message or color can be printed under a metal or an opaque
coating. After certain uses the indicating opaque/metal layer will wear out and be indicated
by the message/color printed underneath.
        Wherever a metal, in form of thin coating, strip, fiber, film, hologram and alike is
used in a security system, the current invention can be used for detecting a forgery, tampering
and/or identifying whether the system is genuine or not, including monitoring age and effect
of ambient conditions. Many paper currencies have a metal fiber or strip. The metal surface
can be coated with an activator system. The nature of an activator will depend on the metal
and intended use. Metal and/or activator surface may have printing. The activator layer could
be on or under the printing. The inventions disclosed herein can also be used for coins.
        Controlled release systems, such as microencapsulation known in the prior art can be
used for controlled release of activator. A pressure sensitive adhesive (PSA) with an activator
is a controlled release system and hence any other control release system can be used as
activator layer or activator tape.
        Activators can be microencapsulated. The devices can be activated by rupturing the
microcapsules either by applying pressure or by melting.
                                               132

        Controlled released technology is used in many fields for controlled release of a
variety of substances. Because an activator such as water and oxygen has ability to dissolve
certain metals, the technology disclosed herein can be used for control release of a variety of
substances including pharmaceuticals, foods and agricultural applications, pesticides,
cosmetics and household products coated thin with a metal. Selection of a metal or an alloy
will depend upon the material and the application. By selecting proper metal and thickness
one can create sustained-release, extended-release, time-release or timed-release, controlled
release or continuous-release      of pharmaceuticals, foods and agricultural applications,
pesticides, cosmetics and household products. The activator either can be added or
environment, e.g., body fluid, water, can be an activator. Provided are control release devices
wherein a thin layer of metal is used to encapsulate, cover, protect a substance to be released
by dissolution of the said metal.
        As water and salts dissolve very thin metal layer and hence can be used for control
release of pharmaceuticals, foods and agricultural applications, pesticides, cosmetics and
household products.
        The control release devices could be small particles having a very thin layer of metal
or other shapes, such as flat devices having at least one thin layer of metal.
        Many of the indicating devices disclosed herein can also be made from coating
microcapsules having proper activator, indicator, and materials and processes for making the
microcapsules. For steam sterilization indicating devices, one can select microcapsules which
release activator or a colored material at desired temperature and humidity/steam. By
controlling the release of the activator and other materials of microcapsules one can make
indicating devices by controlled release of activator and other materials.
        There are many different ways directly thermally printable, ruptureable or activatable
materials can be used for making many of the devices and processes disclosed herein using a
metal as an indicator and an activator. The devices can be made using microcapsules
containing an activator, such as phosphoric acid and/or by coating the metal layer or metal
particles. In these devices, (1) both activator and indicator could be on the same side of a
substrate, i.e., by coating a layer of microcapsules of activator on the metal layer, (2) the
metal layer on one side and the microcapsule layer on the other side of a substrate and (3) the
metal layer on one substrate and the microcapsules on other substrate and brought together to
make the devices.
                                               133

        There    can be    additional layer(s)   of traditionally   available color developing
microcapsules so desired messages can be printed.
        A metallized plastic film having thermally printable coating on one side can be used
to print messages using a thermal printer. Similarly, a metallized plastic film having directly
thermally printable coating on one side to print a message and other information and a
coating of microcapsules containing an activator, such as phosphoric acid can be made and
used to print and activate the devices using a thermal printer.
        With the direct thermal printing technique, it can be easier to create the double
message of "NOT STERLILIZED" to "STERLIZED". This can be done by coating a block
on the indicating device with directly thermally printable formulation. A part of the message
(e.g., "NOT") can be printed with a thermal printer on the block. The block, including the
word "NOT" will become black when heated or steamed above 70 0 C or higher (depending
upon the nature of the direct thermal coating). By controlling and selecting proper materials,
one can make the block go black when the product is sterilized. Thus, only word sterilized
will be visible upon sterilization. Alternatively, the word NOT can be printed on the top and a
mask on the metal under NOT. Such direct thermal coating, microencapsulated or not can be
used for monitoring sterilization.
        Instead of printing with directly thermally printable technique/formulations, one can
use other similar printing techniques/formulations.
        One can write "NOT STERILIZED" in one color and on the backside of the
metallized film coat with the same color in form of a block in the same color so the word
"NOT" cannot be seen when the device/product is sterilized. The word sterilized could be
written as a mask.
        The messages can be printed in any languages or in any shapes.
         The message also can be created to identify the device and or process used, for
example,     "EO",   "STEAM",       "PLASMA"        appearing   before    processing and   "EO
PROCESSESD", "EO STERILIZED", "STEAM PROCESSED", "STEAM STERILIZED",
"PLASMA PROCESSED", or "PLASMA STERILIZED" after being processed/sterilized.
This type of messages can identify which process was used.
        A message can also be printed with metallized ink and an activator. When sterilized,
the message will disappear due to etching of the metal.
        Direct thermal printing layer can be at any location in the device. However, the
preferred location is on the surface or a layer near the surface of a device.
                                                134

        Thermochromic materials which change color upon heating, including those changing
color upon melting, are used to make thermal paper. Thermochromic and photochromic films
and papers which can be printed or activated with heat and light can be used for direct
printing.
        Examples of leuco dyes that can be used herein include: (a) leuco bases of
triphenylmethane      dyes,   such  as   3,3-bis(p-dimethylaminophenyl)-phthalide,         3,3-bis(p
dimethylaminophenyl)-6-dimethylaminophthalide           (Crystal   Violet    Lactone),     3,3-bis(p
dimethylaminophenyl)-6-diethylaminophthalide,                 3,3-bis(p-dimethylaminophenyl)-6
chlorophthalide, and 3,3-bis(p-dibutylaminophenyl)-phthalide;        (b) leuco bases of fluoran
dyes, such as 3-cyclohexylamino-6-chlorofluoran, 3-(N-N-diethylamino)-5-methyl-7-(N,N
Dibenzylamino)fluoran,        3-dimethylamino-5,7-dimethylfluoran         and    3-diethylamino-7
methylfluoran;    (c)   miscellaneous   fluoran   dyes,   such   as    3-diethylamino-6-methyl-7
chlorofluoran, 3-pyrrolidino-6-methyl-7-anilinofluoran,       and 2-[3,6-bis(diethylamino)-9-(O
chloroanilino)xanthybenzoic acid lactam]; and (d) lactone compounds, such as 3-(2'-hydroxy
4'-dimethylaminophenyl)-3-(2'[-methoxy-5'-chlorophenyl)phthalide,                 3-(2'-hydroxy-4'
dimethylaminophenyl)-3-(2'methoxy-5'-nitrophenyl-phthalide,                        3-(2'-hydroxy-4'
diethylaminophenyl)-3-(2'methoxy-5-methylphenyl)phthalide            ,    and     3-(2'-methoxy-4'
dietnethylaminophenyl)-3-(2'-hydroxy-4'-chloro-5'-methylphenyl)-phthalide.
        Examples of suitable developers are phenol compounds, organic acids or metal salts
thereof and hydroxybenzoic acid esters Examples of phenol compounds include 4,4'
isopropylene-diphenol       (bisphenol    A),    p-tert-butylphenol,     2-4-dinitrophenol,      3,4
dichlorophenol, p-phenylphenol, 4,4-cyclohexylidenediphenol. Useful examples of organic
acid and metal salts thereof include 3-tert-butylsalicylic acid, 3,5-tert-butysalicylic acid, 5-a
methylbenzylsalicylic acid and salts thereof of zinc, lead, aluminum, magnesium or nickel.
        Sensitizers or thermo-sensitive promoter agents are used in the recording materials of
the present invention to give a good color density to the images obtained. Some of the
common sensitizers which are suitable are fatty acid amide compounds, such as acetamide,
stearic acid amide, linolenic acid amide, lauric acid amide, myristic acid amide, methylol
compounds or the above mentioned fatty acid amides, such as methylenebis (stearamide), and
ethylenebis (stearamide), and compounds of p-hydroxybenzoic acid esters, such as methyl p
hydroxybenzoate, n-propyl p-hydroxybenzoate, isopropyl p-hydroxybenzoate, benzyl p
hydroxybenzoate.
        The encapsulated material may contain color former, color developer, sensitizer and a
color or white pigment as normally found in direct thermal papers and films.
                                                135

         Microencapsulated solid and solution of activators, such as phosphoric and
phosphorous acids can be used as activators which can be released upon demand. Phosphoric
acid (melting point 73 0 C) and phosphorous acid (melting point 43 0 C) having low melting can
help in encapsulation. Preferred wall materials are those used for encapsulation of materials
for direct thermal paper.
         The wall material for thermally printable microcapsules containing an activator, such
as phosphoric acid, can be made using wall materials, such as fatty chain amines (primary,
secondary and tertiary, e.g., dodecyl amine), fatty chain ammonium hydroxides (such as
dodecyl tetrabutylammonium hydroxide), fatty chain acids, waxes like candelilla wax,
paraffin wax and bee wax, unsaturated and crosslink polymers which can be crosslinked to
desired degree.
         In order to protect activator and/or indicator from undesirable effects and/or from any
undesirable pre-mature reaction, they can be protected by coating with a protective material.
The protective material would be less permeable or high barrier material, usually polymeric
or oligomeric. In order to control the reactivity of activator with indicator, they can be
encapsulated. The encapsulation material often referred to as wall material.
         Similar to direct thermally printable coating, a coating can be made from encapsulated
activator, indicator, their precursors, permeable material, barrier material, catalyst and/or
additives. There can be more than one type of microcapsules containing different types of
materials. It is not necessary to encapsulate all of these materials. The coating may have all or
one reactant encapsulated. Selection of materials will depend upon the application. The
indicating devices made from these materials can be activated by thermal, pressure, solvent
etc before the application. With time, time-temperature, sterilization and other treatment
conditions, the indicating layer or portion thereof will undergo the change.
         A direct thermal imaging apparatus as used herein refers to any apparatus which is
suitable for the application of thermal energy to the recording material to activate indicator
compounds in the recording material. Direct thermal printing is generally described in the
Handbook of imaging Materials, 1991, ed. by Arthur S. Diamond (Marcel Dekker, New
York).
         Direct thermal printing offers on-demand, on-line and customized printing and
activation of the devices. Any message in any language and shape can be printed. Name of
institution, user, date, logo and any other information required/desired etc can be printed
when desired.
                                                136

        The devices can be activated by a physical or a chemical method. The device can be
activated with time (controlled released), temperature, pressure, laser, water/steam/moisture,
a solvent, a chemical (e.g., sterilants, such as hydrogen peroxide), ultrasonication etc
depending upon the nature and design of the device and intended use. The devices can also be
activated by an inkjet method e.g., an activator/solvent/chemical is jetted on activator or vice
versa.
        In addition to applying the activator tape on to the indicator tape and other methods
disclosed herein, there are many different ways the devices proposed herein can be activated.
They include the followings:
        A barrier layer which is a good barrier for activator but melts or ruptures by
mechanical, heating or similar processes and opens the way for passage of activator can be
used for activation of the devices.
        Activation of microcapsules could be partial or complete. Coating of encapsulated
materials may be also partial or complete.
        There can be more than one layer of microcapsules, each having the same or different
nature, function and properties.
        Encapsulated material could also be released under controlled conditions, e.g.,
controlled release of activator.
        There are many different ways the devices containing microcapsules can be made and
activated. The following are some of the examples:
        Method 1 (Figure 28): Take a metallized plastic film having a PSA layer [Figure
28(a)] and a release liner (not shown) on the plastic side. Apply a coat of thermally and/or
mechanically ruptureable microcapsules containing an activator, such as phosphoric acid and
a binder on the metal layer [Figure 28(b)]. Optionally, apply a protective coat on the
microcapsule layer [Figure 28(c)]. Using a thermal printer, IR laser or mechanically, one can
write or print a message or image [Figure 28(d)]. The devices can also be activated by
passing through a heating system, such as heated roller or IR laser. The microcapsules will
rupture   and   release   the   activator/phosphoric   acid. An    image   will   appear,   e.g.,
white/translucent to clear/metallic [Figure 28(e)]. Remove the release liner from the back and
apply the activated device on to an object, such as a perishable, medical supply or visitor. The
released activator/phosphoric acid will etch the metal layer. When the metal is completely
etched, a message and/or color printed underneath will appear [Figure 28(f)].
        Method 2 (Figure 30): Take a metallized plastic film having a printable surface.
Apply pressure sensitive adhesive containing an activator (e.g., phosphoric acid) and
                                               137

optionally a color dye or pigment (e.g., red color) on e.g., one half of the metal layer [Figure
30(a)]. Apply a release liner on the PSA layer [Figure 30(b)]. Activator will dissolve the
metal layer underneath and make activator portion of the metallized plastic film clear [Figure
30(b)]. Print the information (e.g., expired or a photo of a visitor depending upon the
application) on the back of the printable film, e.g., under the other half of the metal layer
[Figure 30(c)]. Remove the release liner from the activator layer, fold the device in the
middle and apply pressure to make uniform contact between the PSA and the metal layers
[Figure 30(d)]. Photo and information will be on the top of the activated device. When the
device expires (metal layer gets dissolved), a color and/or a printed message, e.g., red color,
"X", "Not Valid" etc can appear under the photo [Figure 30(e)]. There are many other ways
these devices can be made. E.g., one can join a polyester film tape having a PSA (plus a red
dye/pigment) containing an activator with a metallized plastic tape. The two-tapes can be
glued, heat sealed, ultrasonically welded etc. Yet another way is to apply a PSA (plus a red
dye/pigment) containing an activator on back of printable thermally printable plastic film and
then splice with a metallized plastic film. Many other devices disclosed herein, can be made
by these and other methods disclosed herein.
        Method 3: Take a metallized plastic film and coat thermally printable coating
(normally coated on a paper for thermal printing) on the plastic side. The film can be
thermally, inkjet, laser, etc printed. An image will appear in black and white, in color, or in
clear depending upon the nature of the microcapsule and material contained therein. Apply an
activator tape on the metal side to activate the device. When the metal layer is etched, it will
change the appearance of the image.
        A visitor's badge was made (1) by printing a photo on a thermally printable film
obtained from IIMAK (Product #TF200C Clear D.T., Amherst, NY) having a PSA layer of
activator formulation of Example 3 on back of using a thermal printer and (2) laminating the
activator on a metallized polyester film. When metal layer was etched the photo became
clear.
        The reverse is also possible that the indicator is protected or particles of indicator are
protected by microencapsulation.
        Activator and indicators tapes can be separate or connected (e.g., glued/spliced) and
could be of the same or different size and shape. The devices can be activated by applying
one tape on to the other or by folding the connected tapes.
        The coating on a substrate may contain only encapsulated indicator (e.g., encapsulated
metal powder), only activator (e.g., encapsulated phosphoric acid), one encapsulated and the
                                               138

other not (e.g., encapsulated phosphoric acid and uncoated metal powder) or a mixture of
encapsulated indicator and activator. The coating may have other additives. Depending upon
the application, the substrate could be clear, opaque and colored and could be fully or
partially coated. The substrate may have additional coating as required. The coating may
have one or more protective coatings. The thickness of the coating will also depend upon the
application can vary from a micron to 1,000 microns.
        The coatings can have a dye or indicator for the development of color.
        The coating may be composed of two or more encapsulated materials, such as a leuco
dye or pH sensitive dye (color former/changer) as an indicator and an acid, such as
phosphoric acid as an activator and selectively releasing activator only. The coating can be on
metallized or un-metallized substrate. The coating can also be composed of metal particles
(encapsulated/coated or not) and encapsulated activator. A variety of combinations are
possible.
        Physical and chemical methods, such as spray drying, spray chilling, rotary disk
atomization, fluid bed coating, stationary nozzle co-extrusion, centrifugal head co-extrusion,
submerged nozzle co-extrusion, pan coating, phase separation, solvent evaporation, solvent
extraction,    interfacial  polymerization,   simple    and   complex     co-acervation,  in-situ
polymerization, liposome technology and nanoencapsulation can be used for encapsulations
of indicators and activators disclosed herein. Wall or shell materials, such as proteins,
polysaccharides, starches, waxes, fats and lipids, natural and synthetic polymers and resins
can be used for encapsulations of indicators and activators disclosed herein.
        Many encapsulated chemicals, such as sodium bicarbonate, sodium bromide, sodium
chloride and sodium diacetate are available commercially. They can be used as activators for
the devices disclosed herein, especially for the sterilization indicating devices. Others can be
similarly microencapsulated and used.
        US Patent No. 4,675,161 discloses use of epoxy coated microcapsules and azo dyes
for sterilization including heat and ethylene oxide. However, use of other dyes and other wall
materials are not known.
        We have found that the direct thermal coatings made from certain dyes are too
sensitive to EO gas. The reaction can be slowed down by coating on a metallized PET and
coating thinly with a metal (e.g., I0A) or laminating with thinly metallized plastic film, film
having selective/spaced lines metallized. By using wedge metallized film one can create
moving boundary EO device.
                                               139

        We discovered that commercially available directly thermally printable labels (e.g.,
those available Brady, IIMAK and used by Federal Express and UPS) when exposed to
ethylene oxide (EO) gas, humid or dry, gradually turned black within minutes at room
temperature. The same labels coated with Joncryl 77 (Johnson and Sons, Racing, WI) turned
black much slower. Thus, time required for the coatings to turn black by EO gas sterilization
can be varied either by selecting proper wall material, barrier coat and/or dye.
        The labels can be used for monitoring EO gas as these labels are generally
environmentally stable.
        The labels were also exposed to hydrogen peroxide vapor overnight at 50 0 C. They
also tuned slightly darker overnight. However, when old dot matrix fax paper which we
bought in late 1980s from Quill Corporation, turned black within a few hours at 50 0 C. It
seems that the wall material and/or protective coat are more permeable to hydrogen peroxide.
As dyes used in thermal or dot matrix paper are reduced dyes, they should also turn
black/colored with other oxidizing agents, such as peracetic acid and ozone.
        The indicating devices described herein can be read visually or can also be read with
higher accuracy by a machine. The devices and processes described in our US Patent
Application # 20080023647 entitled General purpose, high accuracy dosimeter reader can
also be used in the present inventions. The devices and processes of patent application #
20080023647 and references cited therein are herein incorporated as references.
        Some of current inventions including formulations, devices and processes, e.g.,
packaging tape, double messages, such as "VALID" to "NOT VALID", "FRESH" to "NOT
FRESH" and "NOT STERILIZED" to "STERILIZED" can be applied to the prior art
formulations, devices and processes. In order to demonstrate wide applicability of some of
the inventions, we made several prior devices, such as time, time-temperature, radiation,
freeze, thaw, microwave doneness, hot water dish washing indicator and sterilization
indicating devices having present inventions. Some representative examples summarized
below:
        We made a packing tape by applying an activator tape and labels containing
phosphoric acid on a commercially available thermally printable tape. On a closed box a
word "FRESH" was written. The box was sealed with a clear/translucent thermally printable
film/tape (iimak, Amherst, NY, Product #TF200C Clear D.T.) having a pressure sensitive
adhesive. Over the thermally printable coating, a pressure sensitive adhesive activator tape
containing phosphoric acid (that of example 5) was applied. The box was placed at 60 0 C. The
colorless coating gradually changed to light grayish green -- gray green -- gray -- black
                                              140

color within one hour. A similar box took almost a week for the color change at room
temperature.
        On the top part of a thermally printable clear film labels (supplied by IIMAK)
"FRESH" was printed with a thermal printer. On the bottom portion of the film was written
"NOT FRESH" with a latex, Joncryl 74 and allowed to dry. "NOT FRESH" was barely
visible. An activator tape of example 5 was applied. The device was placed in an oven at
60 0 C. The area surrounding the word "FRESH" gradually became darker and the word
"FRESH" became essentially unnoticeable. At the same time, the area word "NOT FRESH"
became darker and made easily noticeable. By applying a proper permeable layer over the
thermally printable coating one can match the appearance of "NOT FRESH" with the
disappearance of "FRESH". These types of devices can be used as TTI for monitoring shelf
life of perishables. Similarly other devices with the words such as "VALID" and "NOT
VALID" were made for visitor badges.
        We also created a moving boundary device by coating a wedge shaped permeable
layer of a polyvinylacetate latex on the thermally printable coating and using an activator tape
containing phosphoric acid. Similarly, many other devices disclosed herein, e.g., bar code
devices, bandage indicators,      sterilization indicators, hot water indicators, microwave
doneness indicators, freeze indicators by phase separation technique, humidity indicators,
thaw indicators, tamper indicators, radiation indicators and gimmicks can be made using the
prior art formulations, devices and processes and inventions disclosed herein. Though we
used phosphoric acid as activator and thermally printable film for demonstration of some
concepts but other indicators and activators can also be used. Some appropriate changes may
be required.
        The prior art devices, especially color changing/developing can be made self reading.
UV expose (e.g., with a UV laser) the sensor if the sensing material is a diacetylene, pre
thermal treat if the sensing material is thermal sensitive, or just print with a suitable printer.
One can create the numbers, barcodes, messages etc. Diacetylenes are sensitive to UV light
and thermal annealing (i.e., time and temperature of storage) and hence are self activating.
Activate the device if required. After certain time and/or time-temperature, the color
development of the sensor will match color of the printed messages indicating expiration.
        The color changes in all these prior art devices were gradual.
        The devices disclosed herein can also be used as employee ID or high security self
expiring ID both with and without RFID. One can also make a variety of self expiring
products from the concepts and formulations proposed herein.
                                                141

         The devices can also be created on line. For example, (1) printing an indicator tape
(e.g., metallized plastic film) with an activator or vice versa, (2) by activator followed by
indicator or vice versa or (3) by spraying or ink jetting activator and indicator simultaneously.
         Softwares for monitoring and cataloging the devices disclosed herein can be
developed and used.
         Different indicators and activators will produce different by-products due to reaction
of an activator with a metal. If required, the process, degree of processing and the devices can
be further analyzed by analyzing the by-products and their concentrations.
         Many of the inventions (compositions, devices and processes) disclosed herein, can
be easily applied to other devices irrespective of their origin.
         The designs proposed herein are interchangeable. A design of one indicating device
can be used for the others with required or appropriate changes. For example, "Expired"
message and red color of time-temperature indicating device can be replaced with
"Sterilized" and green color for sterilization indicating device.
         A variety of processes/equipment have been developed for coating adhesives, inks,
lacquers, and other polymeric materials. Common coating methods are: air knife, brush,
calendar, cast coating, curtain, dip, extrusion, blade, floating knife, gravure, kiss roll, off-set,
reverse roll, rod, spray, and squeeze roll. Most of the above methods can be used for coating
the matrix on a wide range of base materials.
         Many of the indicating devices can be made by proper printing of activator and
indicator, using a variety of printing processes. Ink may contain an activator or metal type
indicator. An indicator, e.g., in form of a message can be printed on a layer of activator or
vice versa. Essentially any ink or printing process, including inkjet, laser tonner, dye
sublimation and conventional inks and processes can be used.
         Water and solvent based inkjet inks are commercially available. A mask in form of a
message can be easily printed with an inkjet ink without any pigment or that containing said
indicators, preferably activators. The ink could also be UV curable.
         Screen printing is also used to make sterilization indicating devices. It is also possible
to make plastisol, both water and solvent based, for making the indicating devices by screen
printing. The indicators, activators and the precursors can be dispersed or dissolved in a
plastisol or very viscous vehicles, such as plastisol of polyvinyl chloride and similar
polymers.
                                                142

        Many chemicals are detected with color developing reagents which when reacted with
the chemicals introduce a color change. Transparent glass and plastic tubes filled with an
inert substrate coated with these color developing (detecting/indicating) reagents are widely
used for monitoring a variety of hazardous chemicals. A known volume of contaminated air
is passed through the tube filled with these agents and color change is monitored.
        Metals and their alloys also react with a large number of chemicals many of them are
referred herein as activators and precursors for activators. Inert materials, porous or
otherwise, thinly coated with metals and their alloys can also be used for monitoring a
number of chemicals. The inert materials could be opaque as well as transparent, for
example, glass or plastic beads, flakes, fiber, film and pieces. An empty glass tube thinly
coated inside or solid fiber thinly coated with a proper metal or its alloy can also be used for
monitoring certain chemicals.
        There are many different shapes of metallized substrate that can be used for
monitoring chemicals. They include metallized optical fiber, tube, film, strips and beads.
        In addition to monitoring activators and precursors for activators listed herein, the
above described metallized substrates can also be used for detecting/monitoring carboxylic
acids and acid chlorides, such as formic acid, acetic acid and acetyl chloride, ammonia and
amines e.g., methyl amine,      ethylamine, diethylamine, pyridine and aniline, halogens and
halo compounds, such as chlorine and chlorine dioxide, mineral acids, such as hydrochloric
acid, hydrofluoric acid and nitric acid, mercaptans and sulfides, such as methyl mercaptan,
hydrogen sulfide and carbon disulfide, oxides, such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide,
phosphines and phosgene, phenols, such as cresols, oxidants, such as peroxides including
hydrogen peroxide and ozone, hydrogen cyanides, aldehydes, such as formaldehyde and
furfural, epoxides, such as ethylene oxide, propylene oxide and epichlorohydrin, metal
vapors, such as mercury, oxygen, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, water/humidity            and
chemicals whose reaction can be catalyzed by metals and metal alloys. By selecting proper
metals and their alloys, one can also achieve selectivity to certain chemicals.
        The reaction can be followed visually or by monitoring change in conductivity,
including ionic conductivity. As metal gets etched, its conductivity will decrease.
        Biological materials and organisms, live or dead, bacteria, virus, strand, enzymes,
proteins and alike, which can generate an activator for a metal layer can be used for
monitoring biomaterials. Biomaterials may need a so called substrate, i.e., a reactant from
which a biomaterial produces a product, in this case an activator or a catalyst. Such bio
materials can be used for analysis body material including urine and blood. Body parts and
                                               143

fluids have a number of inorganic and organic chemicals (bio-chemicals) such as acids, salts,
glucose, nitrites, amino acids and enzymes. By selecting proper substrate, enzyme, media,
precursor, catalyst and alike one can control the nature of the reaction to produce an activator
which will etch/react with a very thin layer of a metal. Products such as glucose-6-phosphate
may etch certain metals and/or alloy.
        As metals and their oxides and complexes react with a number of chemicals, they
(especially thinly coated) can be used for determination of their concentrations. For example,
aluminum reacts with a number of acids, bases and salts. The time required for dissolution of
a thin layer of a metal of known thickness, such as 100 Angstroms pure aluminum depends
on concentration of a given acid, base or salt. Once calibrated, a substrate coated a thin layer
of metal, with or without a permeable coating, can be used for determination of concentration
of a variety of chemicals, including toxic agents.
        We have found that it is also possible to monitor a large number of chemicals/agents
using a thin layer of metal such as metallized plastic film with or without a layer of precursor.
Many toxic chemicals such as bromine react with metals such as aluminum.
        War chemicals that can be monitored using the materials, devices and processes
disclosed herein include lethal, blister, blood, nerve, pulmonary, incapacitating and riot
control   agents.   The   examples include      cyanogen chloride      and hydrogen cyanide,
ethyldichloroarsine, methyldichloroarsine, phenyldichloroarsine, Lewisite, 1,5-dichloro-3
thiapentane,   1,2-bis(2-chloroethylthio) ethane, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-propane,      1,4
bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane,             1,5 -bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane,            2
chloroethylchloromethylsulfide, bis(2-chloroethyl) sulfide, bis(2-chloroethylthio) methane,
bis(2-chloroethylthiomethyl)    ether, bis(2-chloroethylthioethyl)     ether, bis(2-chloroethyl)
ethylamine, bis(2-chloroethyl) methylamine, tris(2-chloroethyl)amine, tabun, cerin sarin,
soman, cyclosarin, GV, VE, VG, VM, VR, VX chlorine, chloropicrin, phosgene,
diphosphene, agent 15 (BZ), EA 3167, kolokol-1, pepper spray, CS gas, CN gas and CR gas.
        Toxic industrial chemicals that can be monitored using the materials, devices and
processes disclosed herein include acetone cyanohydrin, acrolein, acrylonitrile, allyl alcohol,
allyl amine, allyl chlorocarbonate, allyl isothiocyanate, ammonia, arsenic trichloride, arsine,
boron tribromide, boron trichloride, boron trifluoride, bromine, bromine chloride, bromine
pentafluoride, bromine trifluoride, carbon disulfide, carbon monoxide, carbonyl fluoride,
carbonyl sulfide, chlorine, chlorine pentafluoride, chlorine trifluoride, chloroacetaldehyde,
chloroacetone, chloroacetonitrile, chloroacetyl chloride, chlorosulfonic acid, crotonaldehyde,
cyanogen, 1,2-dimethyl hydrazine, diborane, diketene, dimethyl sulfate, diphenylmethane
                                               144

4'-diisocyanate,       ethyl       chloroformate,       ethyl       chlorothioformate,       ethyl
phosphonothioicdichloride,     ethyl phosphonous dichloride, ethylene dibromide, ethylene
imine,   ethylene   oxide,   fluorine,  formaldehyde,    hexachlorocyclopentadiene,      hydrogen
bromide, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen cyanide, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen iodide,
hydrogen selenide, hydrogen sulfide, iron pentacarbonyl, isobutyl chloroformate, isopropyl
chloroformate, isopropyl isocyanate, methanesulfonyl chloride, methyl bromide, methyl
chloroformate, methyl chlorosilane, methyl hydrazine, methyl isocyanate, methyl mercaptan,
n-butyl chloroformate, n-butyl isocyanate, nitric acid, fuming, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide,
n-propyl chloroformate,      parathion, perchloromethyl     mercaptan,     phosgene, phosphine,
phosphorus      oxychloride,  phosphorus    pentafluoride,   phosphorus     trichloride, sec-butyl
chloroformate, selenium hexafluoride, silicon tetrafluoride, stibine, sulfur dioxide, sulfur
trioxide, sulfuric acid, sulfuryl chloride, sulfuryl fluoride, tellurium hexafluoride, tert-butyl
isocyanate, tert-octyl mercaptan, tetraethyl lead, tetraethyl pyrophosphate, tetramethyl lead,
titanium tetrachloride, toluene 2,4-diisocyanate, toluene 2,6-diisocyanate, trichloroacetyl
chloride, trifluoroacetyl chloride and tungsten hexafluoride.
        The devices of this invention use a layer of metal or metal particles as an indicator
and a layer of activator or chemicals which react with metal to destroy the metal. As a result,
one can measure the progress of the reactions/phenomenon by measuring the electrical
conductivity, specific conductivity, conductance, resistance and resistivity of the devices
disclosed herein. The conductivity can change from about 37 x 106 Siemens per meter (S.m- 1)
to essentially of that of salt water, i.e., about 5 S.m-1 or lower if aluminum is used as an
indicator. That is over a million times change in conductivity. Thus, many of the phenomena
of the current invention can be monitored with very high accuracy. Using this method of
measuring conductivity one can measure concentration of chemicals in ppm (parts per
million) and ppb (parts per billion) concentration. Measurement of conductivity is simpler
than many other properties.
        A metallized film or a fiber coated with a metal layer can be coated with one or
activator, precursor, catalyst, biological substrate for selective monitoring more than one
chemical, or an agent including chemical or biological agent.
        Accuracy can further be increased by increasing the length of the conductive paths.
For some devices, it can be done by folding or using metallized fiber. Several methods can be
used for making the devices having folded or spiral conductive paths. For example, methods
used for making printed circuit boards, burning a metallized surface with a laser or a
modified method of making CD (compact disc).
                                               145

         Super high accuracy is not required for certain devices, such as time-temperature, de
frost, freeze, microwave doneness and sterilization indicating devices. Higher accuracy of
one percent may be preferred for certain devices, such as time indicating device for a month
or years. However, very high accuracy is desired for certain indicating devices/dosimeters,
such as radiation dosimeters and monitoring of chemicals. If one can measure radiation and
chemicals with accuracy of better than a tiny fraction of a percent, one can monitor a very
low dose with high accuracy. With the expected linear change in conductivity, one can
measure dose with higher accuracy over a very wide dose range.
         A conductive paint composed of conductive particles, an activator and a binder can be
used for making many of the devices disclosed herein and monitoring the phenomenon with
change in conductivity.
         The optical waveguide device of instant invention will be essentially identical to those
of prior art, except that the indicating/cladding layer will be a metal or an alloy, with and
without a layer of an activator or its precursor. The optical fiber can be metallized by the
methods reported in the literature, for example, those disclosed in US Patent Nos. 6,798,963
and 7,158,708.
         A detecting device can be developed for detecting changes in chemical or physical
parameters, comprising a sensing optical fiber having a core surrounded by a thin layer of
metal or an alloy, with or without a layer of an activator or its precursor.
The device may contain a reference fiber without a coating of the metal and/or the activator
or without being treated or exposed.
         The core material of the sensing optical fiber will be substantially the same as the core
of an optical fiber.
         The device can also be made up of two optical fibers, one extending from each end of
the sensing optical fiber to be connected at their remote ends to a light source and detector
respectively. Alternatively, a single optical fiber may extend from one end of the sensing
optical fiber, the other end of which is made reflective, the single transmitting fiber being
connected to both sources and detector using a beam splitter.
         Because of the uneven expansion and contraction of the cladding materials (metals)
and the core material (glass or plastic optical fiber), one can monitor many physical
phenomena, such as temperature, pressure and stresses as well using the devices of this
invention.
                                               146

         For monitoring physical phenomenon, such as time, temperature, freezing, defrost,
time-temperature, radiation and alike, an activator layer is usually required and the activator
layer could be over the metal layer or vice versa. However, for devices like sterilization and
detection of chemicals, the activator coating should be over the metal coating.
         The conductive layer could be semi-conductive layer as well.
         Instead of coating the activator on a metallized optical fiber, one can make similar
devices by inserting it in a solution or liquid activator or precursor for the activator. This type
of devices will be faster and more sensitive.
         The substrate in these devices will be an optical fiber made from glass or polymers.
         The optical waveguide (fiber) of this invention is conductive and hence one can also
monitor all these phenomena by monitoring change in conductivity.
         Activators and precursors for activators listed herein can be used for the optical
waveguide devices. The activators and their precursors can be dissolved or dispersed in a
polymeric binder and coated on a metallized optical fiber or metallized after the coating.
They also can be applied by some conventional coating techniques, such as dipping and
vacuum evaporation/sublimation.
         These waveguide indicating devices can also have many of the features of time and
time-temperature indicating devices described herein and vice versa.
         Like the conductivity devices, the optical waveguide device will be significantly more
accurate.
         The quantitative progress of a reaction of a phenomenon of the devices disclosed
herein can also be measured by other parameters, such as change in magnetic properties and
change in reflectivity, transmission and spectral shift.
         All indicating devices and their components could also be made in form rolls. The
indicating device rolls may then be die cut or peeled and applied on an object. The shape of
the indicating device may be, for example, circles, ovals, other curvilinear shapes, preferably
symmetrical, triangles, squares, rectangles, hexagons, and other polygons, including right
polygons and equilateral polygons.
         All indicating devices disclosed herein could have other types of indicating devices,
e.g., a temperature indicating device on TTI, ammonia gas indicating device on TTI,
sterilization indicating device with time-temperature or temperature indicating device, or
radiation indicating device on TTI.
                                                147

        There could be more than one indicating device on an object or substrate for
monitoring two different conditions, so that one device sends one set of messages while the
other one sends the other type of messages or one after the other.
        The devices disclosed herein can be combined to make multi-process and multi
material indicators. For example, a TTI on radiation indicating device or vice versa can be
used for monitoring radiation of perishable, such as food and blood and shelf life. Indicating
device can also have other indicating devices, such as temperature indicating device.
        For different processes one can use one or more activators for different processes,
e.g., an activator for steam and ethylene oxide or a mixture of one activator for steam and the
other for ethylene oxide. The devices can also be for more than two processes as steam,
ethylene oxide and plasma. This can be done by selecting a mixture of more than one
activator, especially a mixture of individual activator for each process it is intended for.
        The time required for the transparency change and the activation energy of the current
indicating devices can be varied by one or more of the following major parameters: 1)
Thickness of an activator matrix, 2) Thickness of an indicator and co-indicator, 3) Thickness
of a permeable layer, including an oxide layer, 4) Concentration of an activator and co
activator, 5) Concentration of a precursor, 6) Concentration of an additive, 7) Nature of a
solvent, surfactant and catalyst, 8) Nature of an activator matrix, 9) Nature of an indicator and
co-indicator, 10) Nature of a permeable layer, including an oxide layer, 11) Nature of an
activator and co-activator and 12) Nature of an additive. All parameters will vary the time
required for the transparency change. The parameters 1 - 6 will vary only the time required
for the transparency change while the activation energy and time required for the
transparency change can be varied with parameters 7-14.
        The devices and associated processes which use metal as an indicator and an etchant
as an activator offer some of the following major uniqueness which are rarely found in other
indicating devices:
        Indicators:
     -  The thickness of the indicator layer is incredibly ultra thin, only ~100 Angstroms.
     -  The indicator is a metal, usually aluminum which is non-toxic and its salts are also
        non-toxic.
     -  Metallized plastic films having different thicknesses of aluminum layer (~25A
        700A) and different colors are readily available. Hence, no need to make the indicator
        tape.
                                               148

-  Even 1OA thick layer of aluminum provides 99% opacity. About ~20A is semi
   transparent but reflective and transparent below 1OA.
-  Average accuracy is about 80% but as much as 99% is possible.
-  The change is from opaque and reflective/shiny to transparent. Shiny/reflective
   surface is easily noticeable.
-  Metallized inks are readily available. Commercially available aluminum (called
   silver) and a bronze (an alloy of copper and zinc called gold) inks can be used instead
   of metallized plastic films.
-  A number of metals and a large number of their alloys having different sensitivities to
   different activators can be used to make a variety of indicators and processes using
   materials having different properties.
-  Indicator does not migrate or stain.
Activators:
-  Reactions can be carried out with common nontoxic materials, such as water, oxygen,
   acids, bases and salts.
-  A large number of activators and precursors for activators can be used to develop a
   variety of indicating devices.
-  Activator tapes can be made by coating a pressure sensitive adhesive (PSA)
   containing an activator. PSA tape technology is a well developed technology.
Reaction:
-  The reaction is 100% irreversible.
-  The reaction is heterogeneous. It occurs only on the surface of the metal and hence
   gives zero order kinetics, i.e., linear with time, which is one of the most desired
   properties. This also makes the devices highly accurate. The reaction for almost all
   indicating devices is usually the first order/asymptotic, i.e., fast in the beginning and
   slows down with time.
-  Reaction products are usually colorless, white salts (when metals, such as aluminum
   and zinc are used).
-  Indicator layer being super ultra thin, even opaque reaction products, e.g., aluminum
   oxide are essentially nearly transparent.
                                            149

-  Even though the reaction occurs at a steady rate, opaque layer becomes transparent
   only when about 10-20A layer is left unreacted. Thus, it provides a very long
   induction period which is most desired for go/no-go type indicating devices.
Colors and messages:
-  Typically, an indicating device undergoes a color change. These devices are based on
   change in transparencies.
-  Change in transparency makes it possible to print any message or color under the
   metal layer, i.e., provide unlimited final colors/messages.
-  By printing a part of a message (e.g., "GOOD") over the metal layer and another
   under the metal layer (e.g., "NOT"), it is possible to create two messages (GOOD
   NOT GOOD, FRESH -- NOT FRESH, NOT STERILIZED -- STERILIZED).
-  It is also possible to create moving boundary devices for continuous monitoring of a
   process or material possible.
-  That makes the devices self reading, accurate and idiot proof.
-  Machine readable and remotely readable.
Applications:
-  Using proper pairs of activators and indicators, it is possible to monitor a variety of
   materials and processes including:
        -   Time (e.g., self expiring visitor's badges, employee IDs).
        -   Temperature (e.g., microwave doneness).
        -   Time-temperature (e.g., monitoring shelf life of perishables).
        -   Freeze (e.g., for fresh blood, produce, some vaccines).
        -   Thaw/defrost (e.g., for frozen foods).
        -   Humidity (e.g., pharmaceuticals and foods).
        -   Sterilization (e.g., monitoring sterilization of medical supplies and
            perishables):
                -   Steam.
                -   Ethylene oxide.
                -   Plasma/hydrogen peroxide.
                -   Radiation.
        -   Toxic chemicals and biochemicals (e.g., chemical and biological agents).
        -   Electronic devices.
                                            150

                      -   RFIDs.
                      -   Electronic article surveillance.
                      -   Circuit boards.
         There was a need and no indicating device/monitor technology was available which:
     -   Is self reading and idiot proof.
     -   Provides unlimited colors and messages.
     -   Provides long induction period with two messages of go and no-go.
     -   Provides the same colors for a number of materials and processes, i.e., universalizing
         the technology.
     -   Is highly accurate, machine readable and remotely readable.
     -   Is very economical .
     -   Is suitable for individual unit as well as for a container of units.
         The devices disclosed herein have these and many other desired properties and fills
that technological gap. The combination of all these and many other desired properties makes
the devices unique among unique. They are literally dream indicating devices.
         A large number of devices, such as time, temperature, time-temperature, freeze, thaw,
sterilization and radiation indicating devices are commercially available from a number of
manufacturers. Even for a given indicating device, e.g., steam sterilization indicating device,
each manufacturer has its own colors, color changes, size, shape and design which are
different from all others. Hence, it requires training the users how to use and interpret. The
self reading devices disclosed herein requires no training of the users and all indicating
devices will be essentially identical. Thus this technology offers an opportunity to
universalize the indicator technology.
                                                  151

                                            EXAMPLES
        The following examples are illustrative of carrying out the claimed inventions but
should not be construed as being limitations on the scope or spirit of the instant inventions.
        Example 1: Prior art.
        A two-tape TTI device obtained from Avery Dennison, Pasadena, CA was activated
by applying the activator tape (containing an acid in a PSA on a clear plastic film) on to the
indicator tape (containing a pH dye in a resin on a white plastic film). The activated device
gradually changed from yellow -- light purple -- purple -- dark purple within a day at room
temperature and within about one hour at 50 0 C. The color development/change was rapid in
the beginning and slower at the end. As the device is diffusion based there was no abrupt
color change.
        Example 2: Effect of phosphoric acid and its concentration.
        A 100 microns metallized polyester film (having about 125 Angstroms thick layer of
aluminum) was used for demonstrating the feasibilities of the concepts. Alphabet "A" was
written on the metal layer of the metallized film and "1" was written on the back. The film
was placed on a red paper and 1 ml of 85% phosphoric acid was poured on "A". Tiny bubbles
(of hydrogen) appeared on the aluminum layer after about four minutes. The red color paper
and "1" were not visible for five minutes. The aluminum layer got completely dissolved and
"1" and the red color paper became fully visible after six minutes. Thus, the device has a very
long induction period (about 80% for this system) for the color change (silver to red), i.e., no
red color for five minutes and red color appears in about one minute. The time required for
complete dissolution of the metal layer increased from 6 minutes for 85% phosphoric acid to
38 minutes for 15% phosphoric acid as shown in Example 33 and Figure 44.
        Example 3: Making of an activator adhesive formulation for an activator tape.
        In a 500 ml beaker were added 150g a PSA (Product #S8510, Avery Dennison,
Pasadena, CA) with 150g of isopropanol and 25g of 85% phosphoric acid and mixed. The
concentration of phosphoric acid was varied as per need of a device.
        Example 4: Effect of PSA formulation, concentration and solvent of the activator
on etching of a metallized polyester film.
        A 100 microns polyester film having about 125 Angstroms thick coating of aluminum
(referred herein as a 100 microns metallized polyester film or metallized polyester film) was
                                              152

placed on a red paper and 1 ml of PSA formulation of Example 3 was poured on the metal
side of the film at RT. The red color paper was not visible for almost 25 minutes. The
aluminum layer got dissolved and a red color paper became fully visible after 35 minutes.
The time required for the dissolution of the metal layer depends on several factors, such as
concentration, solvent, temperature, dryness and thickness of dry activator layer.
         Example 5: Making of an activator tape.
         The activator formulation of Example 3 was coated on a 100 microns clear (un
metallized) polyester film using #50 and #30 wire wound rods. The coatings were dried at
70 0 C for 10 - 50 minutes. Some activator films were used to create the devices while the
other covered with 50 microns polyester release film having a silicone coating on both the
sides. Pieces from this film were used to make the devices in some of the following examples
after removing the release film.
         Example 6: Making of simple devices.
         A metallized polyester film having a red coating on one side was laminated with a
piece of the activator tape of Example 5 with the PSA layer facing the metal layer. The
activator dissolved the metal layer of the device and the red color became visible after 5 hrs
at room temperature and in about 30 minutes at 60 0 C. The devices annealed at 60 0 C had some
impressions of bubbles or cracking of the metal layer.
         Pieces of the activator tape of Example 5 were applied on seven 50 microns
metallized polyester films having different color coatings (obtained from CP Film, Canoga
Park, CA) with the PSA layer facing the metal layer. The CP films were composed of three
layers, 50 microns polyester film having a thin color ink coating on which had ~125
Angstroms thick coating of aluminum. The laminated films were placed in an oven at 55 0 C.
The metal layer got dissolved in about one hour and the colors of inks became visible.
         Similarly, devices were also created by using a polyester film metallized on both the
sides and a polyester films having coating of the activator on both the sides.
         Examples of control experiments: The activator tape was applied on a 15 micron
thick aluminum foil and annealed at 50 0 C for a few weeks. The tape did not dissolve the foil.
However, when a few drops of phosphoric acid were placed on the same 15 micron thick
aluminum foil, the foil got dissolved within one hour at 50 0 C.
         Example 7: Making of self reading devices similar to Figure 7.
         7.1 Activator tape with a part of the message: Word "FRESH" was printed on a
100 microns clear polyester film using a laser printer. The back side of this film was coated
                                              153

with the activator formulation of Example 3 using a #30 wire wound rod and dried at 70 0 C
for ten minutes.
          7.2 Indicator tape with the other part of the message: Words "ness not
gaurunteed" in reversed/mirror image and a bar code were printed on the non-metal side of a
100 microns metallized polyester film using a laser printer.
         7.3 Activation of the device: The activator tape was applied on the indicator tape
with the adhesive (activator) layer facing the metal (indicator) layer. Care was taken for the
proper alignment of the films. Devices were cut from the laminated/activated film [see Figure
33(a)] and stored in a freezer.
         7.4 Testing of the device: Some the activated devices were annealed at different
temperatures (25 0 C, 450 C and 550 C). The devices were removed from the ovens and scanned
at different time intervals. The word "FRESH" was visible on the top of the device. Figure 33
shows a device annealed for 27, 34 and 38 hrs at 25 0 C. The message "ness not gaurunteed"
and the bar code were not visible for 25 hrs at 25 0 C. They started appearing at about 27 hours
as shown in Figure 33(b), became almost visible at about 34 hours and completely readable at
about 38 hours as shown in Figures 33(c) and 33(d) respectively. The device has an induction
period of about 70-80%. It can be extended by using a permeable layer. The device is self
reading.
         The activation energy of the reaction was determined by plotting the logarithm of
induction period versus 1/T (T    =  absolute temperature). The activation energy of the device
was about 7 kcal/mole. The low activation energy makes the device more useful for
monitoring time, e.g., as a visitor's badge.
         Devices with many different types of messages (including different symbols and
languages) were also made including a few with double bar codes.
         Example 8: Making of moving boundary devices with a wedge shaped permeable
layer.
         8.1 Activator tape. A 100 microns clear polyester film was coated with the activator
formulation of Example 3 using a #30 wire wound rod and dried at 70 0 C for ten minutes.
         8.2 Indicator tape with a wedge shaped coating: The metal surface of a 100
microns metallized polyester film was coated with 10% solution of polyepichlorohydrin in
toluene using a 0-250 microns wedge shaped 10 cm long bar and dried at 70 0 C for 5 minutes.
A wedge shaped coating of polyepichlorohydrin was obtained with 0 to about 25 microns
dried thickness of wedge shaped coating.
         Some films were coated with 0-250 microns 5 cm long wedge shaped bar.
                                                154

         Some metallized polyester films were printed with red color and numbers and a scale
in the black and gray color on the uncoated side.
         8.3 Activation of the device: The activator tape was applied on the indicator tape
with the adhesive (activator) layer facing the metal (indicator) layer. Many devices of about
1-2 centimeter wide were cut.
         8.4 Testing of the device: Some devices were annealed at different temperatures
(25 0 C, 450 C and 550 C). The devices were removed from the oven at different periods of time
and scanned. Figure 34 shows a device annealed for different periods of time at 550 C. As can
be seen from Figure 34, a boundary was created by dissolution of the metal layer and the
boundary moved from the thin to the thick end of the wedge shaped coating of
polyepichlorohydrin with the annealing time. The movement of the boundary was almost
linear with time.
         In the moving boundary devices, the thinning of the aluminum layer can be seen (as
evident by gradual increase in transparency of the metal layer) which indicates the reaction
occurs on the surface.
         The movement of the boundary is essentially linear with time, i.e., zero order reaction
which is a unique and highly desirable property for most indicators. The linearity of the
movement of the boundary may be due to combination of many parameters but mainly due to
two reactions, (1) diffusion of the activator through the permeable layer and (2) etching of
aluminum layer. The color change/development of all known time and time-temperature
indicating devices is asymptotic (i.e., the first order reaction). They develop color rapidly in
the beginning and slowly with time.
         The current device has one of the most desired properties for an indicating device,
which is a long induction period followed by linear color change with time.
         It is evident from Figure 34 that by increasing the thickness of the permeable layer
one can increase the induction period, higher the thickness of the permeable layer longer the
induction period.
         8.5 Kinetics of the diffusion/reaction.
         The distance travel by the boundary was determined for the devices annealed at
different temperatures (25 0 C, 45 0C and 550 C). The activation energy was determined from
the plots of logarithm of time required to travel, e.g., 1 and 2 cm versus 1/T. The activation
energy was 21 Kcal/mole. The higher activation energy may be due to the diffusion based
reaction,     i.e., diffusion   of phosphoric      acid   through   the  permeable    layer    of
polyepichlorohydrin.
                                                155

        Example 9: Permeable layer of different thicknesses.
        9.1 Activator tape. A 100 microns clear polyester film was coated with the activator
formulation of Example 3 using a #30 wire wound rod and dried at 70 0 C for ten minutes.
          9.2 Indicator tape with different thicknesses of a permeable layer: The metal
surface of a 100 microns metallized polyester film was coated with 10% solution of
polyepichlorohydrin using a 27, 75, 125 and 300 microns bars and dried at 70 0 C for 10
minutes.
        9.3 Activation of the device: The activator tape was applied on the indicator tape
with the adhesive (activator) layer facing the metal (indicator) layer. Many devices were cut
and annealed at 45 0C. The time required for the aluminum layer to get dissolved was noted.
Table 1 shows approximate thickness of the permeable and time required for the dissolution
of the aluminum layer.
        Table 1. Approximate thickness of polyepichlorohydrin and time required for the
dissolution of the aluminum layer at 45 0 C.
  Thickness          Time (hrs) for
     (iml)           the dissolution
        0                    3
     0.015                 5.5
      0.03                  13
      0.05                  23
      0.06                  28
        Thus, the time required for the dissolution of the metal layer can be varied by varying
the thickness of the permeable layer.
        Example 10: Packaging tape.
        One side of a 50 microns clear polyester film was printed with "Expired, Do Not Sell,
Return to Manufacturer" with red background and the other side was coated with the
activator formulation of Example 3 to make an activator tape. The activator tape and the
indicator tape (the metallized PET film) were laminated (activator/adhesive layer facing the
metal/indicator layer) to activate the device. Strips of about 5 cm wide were cut. These strips
were placed on a commercially available 5 cm wide sealing tape. A small box (5" x 5" x 3")
was closed and sealed with the activated tape as shown in Figure 35(a) and stored at room
temperature. The message started appearing at about 18 hrs and was completely visible as
shown in Figure 35(b) after about 25 hrs at room temperature.
        One can use a PSA on the back of the activated device to apply on an object.
                                               156

        Several other types of indicating sealing tapes devices were also made, e.g., (1) wedge
shaped moving boundary sealing tape devices was created by using a wedge shaped
permeable layer and also by activating with an activator tape having a wedge shaped PSA
layer, (2) using a narrow metallized polyester strip under the activator tape and (3) with word
"Fresh" on the top and "Not" in the back.
        Example 11: Visitor's badge with moving boundary.
        A photo was printed on the non-metal side of a 100 microns polyester metallized film
using a laser printer. The back metal side of the photo was                  coated with    10%
polyepichlorohydrin solution in toluene using a 0-250 microns wedge shaped bar and dried.
A 100 microns black opaque polyester film was coated with the activator formulation of
Example 3 and dried to make an activator tape. The device (visitor badge) was activated by
applying the activator tape over the wedge coating. The resultant badge, as shown in Figure
36(a), was placed in an oven at 550 C. A black boundary was created at the bottom of the
photo after about 2 hrs and the boundary move upwards with time as shown in Figures 36(b)
- 36(f). It took almost a month for the boundary to move from one end to the other at room
temperature.
        Example 12: Visitor's badge with red background and X.
        A photo was printed on the non-metal side of a 100 microns polyester metallized film
using a laser printer. A red polyester film was printed with black X and was coated with the
activator formulation of Example 3 and dried to make an activator tape. The device (visitor
badge) was activated by applying the activator tape over the metal layer (back of the photo).
The resultant badge was stored at room temperature. There was no color change for ten
hours. A red background and the X started appearing after about 11 hours and appeared
completely after about 16 hrs.
        Similarly, visitor's badges were created with red background only, only X, "Expired"
and "Valid" on the top and "Not" on the back.
        As the photo is not destroyed in this device, it can be archived.
        Example 13: Toy, gimmicks and greeting cards.
        Devices similar to Example 7 but with words, such as "Happy Birthday", figures,
such as hearts, clover leaves, photos, many hand drawn designs and other type of messages
and figures were printed instead of bar code and red background. The images, figures and
messages appeared instead of a bar code. Activated devices were also cut in several shapes,
such as hearts and flowers with red background. They all changed color from metallic to red.
        Example 14: Wrist band.
                                               157

        The 1%of the un-metallized side of a 100 microns, 25 cm x 20 cm metallized polyester
film was coated with an activator mixture of Example 3 using #30 wire wound rod and dried.
A strip of 25 cm x 1 cm was cut and folded so that the activator coating laminated with the
metallized side to make band on a wrist. The laminated surface changed color within ten
hours at RT while the un-laminated portion remained the same.
        Similarly, wrist bands as shown schematically in Figures 13 and 14 were also created.
        Example 15: Making a RFID inlay non-readable (deactivation).
        Over a RFID inlay/transponder [obtained from Mu-Gahat, Sunnyvale, CA and shown
in Figure 37(a)] was applied an activator tape having a thicker layer and higher concentration
of the activator. The antenna of the RFID inlay was made from a thin layer of aluminum. The
antenna of the device slowly started getting dissolved at room temperature. The different
stages of dissolution of the antenna with time are shown in Figures 37(b) - 37(d). Complete
RFID inlay is shown on top of each photo. The antenna near the chip got dissolved in about 2
days. The etching of antenna made the chip non-readable.
        Example 16: Etching mask.
        16-A: A 100 microns metallized polyester film was screen printed using a mask on
the metallized side with an image using a resist (Joncryl 77, S.C. Johnson Polymers, Racine,
WI). The image was essentially transparent and can't be seen. The device was activated with
an activator tape of Example 5 and placed in an oven at 55 0 C. The screen printed image
appeared within 30 minutes.
        16-B: An antenna circuit for a RFID inlay was created and printed with a printer on
the metal of a metallized polyester film. The film was laminated with the activator tape of
Example 5 with the metal coating facing the activator coating. Two such samples (one upside
down) are shown in Figure 38(a). After two days all unmasked aluminum was dissolved and
an antenna was created as shown in Figure 3 8(b).
        Similar antenna circuits were created by placing the antenna masked metallized
polyester film in steam and boiling water.
        Example 17: Change in transparency with time.
        A metallized polyester film was laminated with the activator tape of Example 5. The
transparency of the device was measured with Thwing-Albert Digital Opacity Meter, Model
628 at different period at 25 0 C. The plot of transparency versus time is shown in Figure 39.
As can be seen from the plot for almost 20 hours there was a very little change in
transparency. The laminated device became more transparent with time and became almost
                                                158

visually transparent at about 27 hours. The results show that the device has an induction
period of about 70%.
         Example 18: Etching of metallized polyester film with hot water and steam.
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film having about 125 Angstroms thick layer of
aluminum was placed in a clean 500 ml conical flask containing 200g of distilled water at
100 0 C. The metal layer started getting unevenly dissolved first where water was
boiling/bubbling (also likely to some extent due to aerial oxidation) within ten minutes and it
got completely dissolved in 15 minutes.
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film having about 125 Angstroms thick layer of
aluminum was placed over a beaker with boiling water with metal layer facing the seam. The
metal layer started getting unevenly dissolved (slow dissolution where condensation of steam
was occurring) and got completely dissolved in ten minutes.
         Though slower but the metal layer also got dissolved with steam under vacuum.
         As thin layer of aluminum layer on polyester film gets dissolved in hot or boiling
water, it can be used for monitoring washing and drying of items, such as dishes and laundry.
         Example 19: Etching of aluminum foil/control experiment.
         A 15 micron thick aluminum foil was treated with steam over boiling water six hours
and in a pressure cooker at 125 0 C (20 PSI) for two hours. The metal foil got slightly tarnished
but did not get dissolved.
         Example 20: Effect of dry heat (control test).
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film was heated at 180 0 C for 2 hours. Except
slight loss of shine, there was little change.
         Example 21: Effect of permeable layer on steam sterilization indicating device.
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film was coated with 10% solutions of the
following polymers and dried to make 8 microns dry coatings on the metal side. Pieces of the
films were cut and steamed at 120 0 C for 2 - 30 minutes. The time required for dissolution of
the metal is shown in the following table (Table 2).
         Table 2. Time for complete dissolution of the aluminum layer under 8 microns
coating of some permeable polymers.
    Polymer           Time
                   (minutes)
      None              5
     PECH               10
                                               159

      CAB              15
   PolyiBM             15
      CAA             30
PECH: Polyepichlorohydrin
CAB: Cellulose acetate butyrate
PolyiBM: Polyisobutylmethacrylate
CAA: Polyvinylchloride-polyvinylacetate-polyvinylalcohol copolymer
        Example 22: Effect of nature permeable layer on permeability of an activator.
        A 100 microns metallized polyester film was coated with 10% solutions of the
following polymers and dried to make 8 microns dry coatings on the metal side. Pieces of the
films were cut and laminated with an activator tape of Example 5. The activated samples
were placed in an oven at 55 0 C and time required for the activator (phosphoric acid) was
determined. The time required for dissolution of the metal is shown in the following table
(Table 3).
        Table 3. Time for complete dissolution of the aluminum layer at 55 0 C having 8
microns of permeable layer of different polymer.
   Polymer         Time
                 (minutes)
     None            20
      CAB            65
     PVAc            75
     PECH           120
CA2 and polyiBM about 10 days
Polystyrene and PVC: No sign even after six months month
PVAc: Polyvinylacetate
PECH: Polyepichlorohydrin
CAB: Cellulose acetate butyrate
        Example 23: Effect of additives on tarnishing of a solvent based gold ink.
        A solvent based gold (copper-zinc alloy) ink (PMS 871 Gold) of Braden Sutphin,
Cleveland, OH was diluted to 50% with dioxolane. In 2 ml of diluted gold paint were added
about 0.25g of 30 different organic additives, heated to dissolve the additives and coated on
100 microns polyester film with # 10 wire wound rod. Small strips were cut and treated with
steam at 120 0C for 5, 10, 20, 30 and 50 minutes. The following additives were effective in
tarnishing the gold coat with time and made gold coating into almost dark brown/black.
                                             160

         Gallic acid
         Glyoxal trimeric dihydrate
         Methyltrihydroxybenzoate
         3,3',4.4'benzophenone tetracaboxylic acid
         Propyl galliate
         Ferric salicylate
         Zinc sulfide
         With water based gold paint the following additives were effective in tarnishing the
gold coating:
         Potassium ferrocyanide
         Potassium ferricyanide
         A number of other activators having different chemical functionalities and properties
were tried. Strong acids, bases and oxidants, such as hydrochloric acid and sodium
hydroxide, were over effective, i.e., started reacting at room temperature in mixture/pot
(started frothing, most likely by production of hydrogen gas). Some milder acids and base,
such as phosphoric acid and sodium carbonate reacted slowly at room temperature but within
minutes of mixing, they also started frothing. However, relatively milder acids, bases and
oxidants, such as sodium hydrogen carbonate, sodium nitrite, sodium phosphate and sodium
acetate have almost right reactivities. Lower concentrations of the additives were less
effective and vice versa.
         Most desired activators are those which are relatively mild or weak, which melt or
dissolve near the desired processing/sterilization temperature. By this way one can prevent
premature reaction under ambient conditions.
         Example 24: Effect of additives in permeable layers on steam sterilization
indicating device.
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film was coated with 10% solutions of cellulose
acetate butyrate in tetrahydrofuran containing about 40% (on solid basis) of a number of
additives having different chemical functionalities and properties. Strong and mild acids,
basis and oxidant were over effectives. However, weak acids (carboxylic, phenols and poly
ols), bases (amines) and oxidants had desired properties. The following additives were
effective in dissolving the metal layer when treated with steam at 120 0 C. For example, propyl
galliate, benzoic acid, benzilic acid, ammonium iron oxalate and iron acetylacetonate had
                                              161

desired properties, i.e., they dissolved the aluminum layer when treated with steam at 120 0 C
for 30 minutes.
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film was printed with "sterilized" on the non
metal side coated using a laser copying machine. The metal side was coated with 10%
solutions of cellulose acetate butyrate containing about 40% of propylgalliate and dried. The
strips were exposed to steam at 120 0 C for 30 minutes. The metal layer got dissolved and the
word "Sterilized" appeared.
         Example 25: Etching with hydrogen peroxide.
         A solvent based gold ink, (copper-zinc alloy, PMS 871 Gold) of Braden Sutphin,
Cleveland, OH was diluted to 50% with dioxolane. In ~2 ml of the diluted paint were added
about 0.25g of different additives, heated to dissolve and coated on 100 microns polyester
film with # 10 wire wound rod. Small strips were cut and treated with saturated vapor of
hydrogen      peroxide     at   70 0 C for  4   hours.   Sodium    dihydrogen   phosphate    and
tetrabutylammonium bromide first tarnished the gold paint and then developed a greenish
tint.
         0.5g and Ig of tetrabutylammonium bromide were dissolved in 5g of Joncryl 77 and
coated on the metal side of a metallized polyester film and dried in an oven at 70 0 C for five
minutes. A piece of the coating was exposed to saturated vapor of hydrogen peroxide at 70 0 C
for 4 hours. The metal coating got dissolved and the film became clear.
         Example 26: Metal particles as indicator for steam sterilization.
         In a one liter plastic container 250g of a binder (Braden Sutphin metallic ink extender,
product # 9w3021N) and 400g of sodium acetate solution (40g in 360g water) were mixed
under moderate stirring. In a 2 liter plastic container was taken 500g of metallic ink indicator
[Braden Sutphin aluminum ink (called silver ink), product # 9W2967J] and was mixed with
the above mixture of sodium acetate under vigorous stirring. The resultant metal ink was
coated on a 50 microns polyester film with #10 wire wound rod. The coating was dried in an
oven at 70 0C for 10 minutes.
         Pieces of the coated film [Figure 40(a)] were subjected to different treatment
conditions, such as dry heat at 160 0 C for 30 minutes [Figure 40(b)], steam at 100 0 C for 30
minutes, saturated humidity at 50 0 C for one week [Figure 40(c)], hydrogen peroxide vapor at
60 0 C for one hour and 100% ethylene oxide gas at room temperature for two hours. The
coating did not become transparent under these conditions. The coating became transparent
and message and color printed underneath became visible when treated with steam at 120 0 C
for 30 minutes as shown in Figure 40(d).
                                                 162

         Example 27: Moving boundary steam sterilization indicating device.
         The metal surface of a 100 microns metallized polyester film was coated with a
commercially available polyurethane latex (#8294, Clear Gloss, Waterbome polyurethane,
General Coating, Ridgewood, NJ) using a 0-10 mil wedge shaped 10cm long bar and dried at
70 0 C for 15 minutes. A wedge shaped coating of polyurethane was obtained.
         In a one liter plastic container 40g of sodium acetate was dissolved in 250g of Joncryl
77. This mixture was coated on the wedge shaped coating of polyurethane and dried at 70 0 C
for 15 minutes.
         Small strips were cut, mounted on a green paper and treated with steam at 120 0 C for
different periods of time. One such piece [Figure 41(a)], treated with steam for 15 minutes
[Figure 41(b)], 21 minutes [Figure 41(c)], 30 minutes [Figure 41(d)], and 45 minutes [Figure
41(e)] at 120 0 C are shown in Figure 41. The sample was removed from the sterilizer, scanned
and re-treated for the said total time.
         This type of devices offer an opportunity to create all-in-one or many-in-one, classes
1-6 or classes 1, 3-6 (may be even higher classes) type indicators for steam and other
sterilants by using proper metal, metal thickness, material and thickness for the wedge layer
and activator or per-cursor for activator.
         Example 28: Metal particles as indicator and Tetrabutyl ammonium bromide as
precursor for activator for hydrogen peroxide and its plasma.
         In a plastic container were taken 50g of the metallic ink indicator (Braden Sutphin
silver/aluminum ink, product # 9W2967J) and 20g of 50% solution of tetrabutylammonium
bromide in water and mixed. The resultant metal ink was coated on a 50 microns polyester
film with #10 wire wound rod. The coating was dried in an oven at 70 0 C for 15 minutes.
         Pieces of the coated film [Figure 42(a)] were subjected to different treatment
conditions, such as dry heat at 160 0 C for 30 minutes [Figure 42(b)], saturated humidity at
60 0 C for one day [Figure 42(c)], steam at 100 0 C for 30 minutes [Figure 42(d)] and steam at
120 0 C for 30 minutes [Figure 42(e)], The coating did not become transparent under these
conditions. The coating started becoming transparent when exposed to hydrogen peroxide
vapor for more than 6 hours at 60 0 C as shown in Figure 42(f).
         Example 29: Metal particles as indicator and sodium thiocyanate as pre-cursor
for activator for sterilization with ethylene oxide.
         In a plastic container were taken 50g of the metallic ink indicator (Braden Sutphin
silver/aluminum ink, product # 9W2967J) and 20g of 50% solution of sodium thiocyanate in
                                                 163

water and mixed. The resultant metal ink was coated on a 50 microns polyester film with #10
wire wound rod. The coating was dried in an oven at 70 0C for 15 minutes.
         Pieces of the coated film [Figure 43(a)] were subjected to different treatment
conditions, such as dry heated to 160 0 C for 30 minutes [Figure 43(b)], saturated humidity at
60 0 C for one day [Figure 43(c)], steam at 1000 C for 30 minutes [Figure 43(d)], steam at
120 0 C for 30 minutes [Figure 43(e)] and hydrogen peroxide vapor at 600 C for 6 hours [Figure
43(f)]. The coating did not become transparent under these conditions. The coating became
transparent when exposed to humid ethylene oxide at 60 0 C for 6 hours Figure 43(g).
         Examples 28 and 29 also indicate that thin layers of metals and their particles can be
used for monitoring chemicals.
         The results of Examples 26-29 show that selective and self reading sterilization
indicators can be developed using the current inventions.
         Example 30: A halo compound as precursor and a binder.
         In a 500 ml jar fitted with a magnetic stirrer was added 200g of tetrahydrofuran and
50g of Chlorez-700 (Dover Chemical, Dover, OH) followed by 50g of a copolymer of
polyvinylidene chloride-acrylonitrile under moderate stirring. The solution was stirred for
one hour for dissolution of the binders. The solution was coated with a 5 mil bar on a
metallized polyester film having about 50 Angstroms aluminum layer and dried at 50 0 C for 5
minutes. The coating was laminated with 1 mil polyethylene film. The laminated sample was
exposed to sunlight with coating facing the sun. The metal layer got dissolved in about two
hours and a red color paper printed with "RADIATED", placed under the metal film
appeared.
         Similar  devices    having   polyvinylacetate   as  a  binder    and   trichloroethane,
trichloroacetamide    and ethyltrichloroacetate    as precursors (partially dried) were also
prepared.
         Example 31: Very viscous oligomeric halo compounds without a binder.
         About 50 microns layers of several Chlorez (e.g., Clorez 700), Paroil (e.g., Paroil 121)
and Dovergaurd (e.g., Dovergaurd 991) supplied by Dover Chemical, Dover, OH) were
prepared by coating them on a polyester film having a 50 Angstroms layer of aluminum
printed with "RADIATED" on polyester. The devices were laminated with a 25 micron
polyethylene film to prevent escape of hydrogen chloride produced during radiation and
exposed to about 500,000 rads of 100 KeV X-ray. The metal layer got dissolved and the
message "RADIATED" became visible.
         Example 32: Radiation indicating device.
                                               164

        When a mixture of fine particles of bronze (e.g., a bronze of copper and zinc) and
halogenated paraffins (e.g., Chlorez 700 of Dover Chemical) is radiated with ionizing
radiation, such as UV/sunlight light, the gold color particles changes to red. Similarly fine
particles of aluminum get dissolved upon the radiation. Thus, a mixture of a halo-compound
and a metal can be used as a radiation dosage indicator.
        Example 33: A method for determination of concentration of an activator.
        On a metallized polyester film having 125 Angstroms aluminum layer and a red paper
behind it, a few drops of phosphoric acid solutions of different concentrations (5-85%) were
poured at different locations on the metal layer and the time when the red paper just started
appearing (i.e., when a very thin layer, e.g., ~10-20 Angstroms left un-etched) and
completely visible (i.e., when the metal layer is essentially completely dissolved) were noted.
The data are plotted in Figure 44.
        It should be noted that difference between the first sign of being transparent and
completely transparent increase with decrease in concentration. This means the induction
period and the end point determination zone can be varied by varying the concentration of an
activator (or its precursor).
        The same time intervals were also determined for phosphoric acid solution of 50% in
increment of 0.05%. This method of determining concentration of a chemical/activator is so
sensitive that one can determine concentration with +0.05%.
        The similar experiments were also conducted on a metallized plastic film coated with
a permeable polymer.
        The method can also be used for determination of concentration of activators or their
precursor in a gas or vapor phase.
        One can determine concentration of activators by dipping strips of metallized plastic
film with or without a permeable coating in the solution or exposing to vapor or gases.
        Example 34: A device for monitoring radon and alpha particles.
        A do/measure-it-yourself device for monitoring alpha particles and alpha emitting
radioactive elements, such as radon was created by applying a thin (~15 microns) layer of
cellulose nitrate on a metallized PET and etching with potassium hydroxide. These devices
were similar to those disclosed in US Patent No. 4,788,432 (cited herein as a reference),
except that the dye/indicator layer was replaced with a thin metal layer.
        Twenty five grams of cellulose nitrate (12% nitrogen) powder containing ~30%
alcohol was added in the mixture of 125g of ethyl acetate, 5g of butyl alcohol, 8g of ethylene
glycol monoethyl ether and 4g of dioctylphthalate under stirring. A 4% solution of cellulose
                                              165

nitrate was made by diluting 40g of the stock solution of cellulose nitrate with 100 ml of
ethyl acetate.
         A 100 microns metallized polyester film having about 100 Angstroms layer of
aluminum was coated with above described dilute solution of cellulose nitrate using a 0.003
inch film applicator. The coating was dried in an oven at 70 0 C.
         The film was then irradiated with alpha particles from a polonium-210 source and
placed on a red paper. A six molar potassium hydroxide solution was poured on the radiated
film for selective etching of the latent tracks.
         Tiny spots (red in color because of the red paper) started appearing after about three
hours. The spots grew in size with time. The spots are due to selective, faster etching of the
latent tracks produced by alpha particles with potassium hydroxide. Potassium hydroxide also
etched the thin metal layer under the etched tracks and appeared as red spots.
         The materials (other than dyes) and processes disclosed in US Patent No. 4,788,432
can also be used for the device disclosed herein and are cited herein by reference.
         The sensitivity of this radon monitoring device can be increased by placing a layer of
activated carbon over the device (metallized plastic film having a thin coating of latent track
producing material such as cellulose nitrate), where radioactive materials such as radon and
its daughters (including those produced by neutron-alpha reaction) can get absorbed on the
activated carbon and when they emit alpha particles, they will produce latent tracks in the
cellulose nitrate layer.
                                                 166

Disclosed herein are the following:
1.       An indicating system comprising a metallic indicator layer and a layer of an activator
or its precursor.
2.       The indicating system of 1 wherein the indicator layer comprises a material that has
at least one property selected from the group of conductive, reflective, highly opaque, self
binding and impermeable and that when contacted with the activator is etched or destroyed
3.       The indicating system of    1 wherein after the indicator layer is contacted with the
activator, its reaction product has at least one property selected from the group of being non
conductive, non-reflective, permeable and transparent or semi-transparent.
4.       The indicating system of 1 wherein the metallic indicator comprises a metal, a metal
alloy, a semi-metallic material or a semi-conducting material.
5.       The indicating system of 4 wherein the metal or metal alloy is selected from metals,
bronzes and alloys that react with the activator.
6.       The indicating system of 4 wherein the metal or metal alloy is selected from alkali
metals, alkaline earth metals, transition metals, post transition metals, lanthanides and
actinides metals and their alloys.
7.       The indicating system of 6 wherein the metal is selected from aluminum, tin, zinc,
copper, manganese, magnesium, nickel, cobalt, iron, sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium,
gallium, cesium, germanium, indium, silver and their alloys.
8.       The indicating system of 7 wherein the metal is aluminum, copper, zinc or tin.
9.       The indicating system of 4 wherein the metal and the metallic alloy comprise alloys
that react with water, acids, bases, chemicals, chemical or biological agents and salts.
10.      The indicating system of       6 wherein the metallic alloy comprises an alloy of
aluminum, copper, tin or zinc.
11.      The indicating system of 4 wherein the alloy comprises at least one metal.
12.      The indicating system of 1 wherein the activator comprises a composition that reacts
with the indicator to cause an irreversible change in the chemical composition of the
indicator.
                                               167

13.     The indicating system of       12 wherein the activator comprises at least one agent
selected from water, oxygen or organic or inorganic acids, bases, salts, chemical or
biological agents or chelates.
14.     The indicating system of 1 which comprises a precursor of the activator.
15.     The indicating system of 13 wherein the activator is an inorganic acid.
16.     The indicating system of 15 wherein the activator is selected from phosphoric acid,
phosphorous acid, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid, sulfonic acid, (this is not an
inorganic acid) or a mixture thereof.
17.     The indicating system of        12 wherein the activator is a hydroxide, alkoxide, or
aryloxide of a metal or a cation of nitrogen.
18.     The indicating system of      12 wherein the activator is a combination of a salt of a
weak acid and a strong base, a strong acid and a weak base, a strong acid and a strong
base, or a weak acid and a weak base.
19.     The indicating system of 12 wherein the activator is a halide, oxide, nitrate, nitrite,
phosphate, phosphite, phosphonate, silicate, sulfate, bisulfate, sulfite, sulfide, bisulfide,
sulfonate,    cyanate, cyanide, thiocyanate, acetylacetonate, carboxylate, percarboxylate,
carbonate or bicarbonate anion of a mono, di and trivalent cation of a metal or cation of
nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorous, halogens or mixture thereof.
20.     The indicating system of 19 wherein the activator is ammonium bromide, ammonium
thiocyanate,    calcium  chloride,    copper chloride,   copper    ammonia   complex,    lithium
acetylacetonate, lithium chloride, lithium formate, phosphorous, phosphorous pentoxide,
potassium acetate, potassium benzoate, potassium bromide, potassium chloride, potassium
ferrocyanide,    potassium    ferricyanide,   potassium  formate,   sodium   acetate, sodium
bicarbonate,      sodium    bromide,      sodium    carbonate,    sodium   cyanate,     sodium
diethyldithiocarbamate, sodium iodide, sodium metasilicate, sodium nitrate, sodium sulfite,
sodium tetrafluoroborate, sodium tetraborate, sodium thiocyanate, sodium thiosulfate,
tetraethylammonium bromide, zinc chloride or a mixture thereof.
21.     The indicating system of 12 wherein the activator is a chelate or complex of a metal
cation.
22.     The indicating system of 21 wherein the activator is an amine or ammonia complex
of a metal cation.
                                                168

23.     The indicating system of 22 wherein the activator is an amine or ammonia complex
of copper chloride or nickel chloride.
24.     The indicating system of 1 comprising
                a) a metallic indicator layer; and
                b) a precursor of the activator in close contact with or in proximity of the
        indicator layer.
25.     The indicating system of       24 wherein the activator is oxygen, chemical vapor or
water.
26.     The indicating system of 12 wherein the activator is humidity, steam, or microwave
radiation, and further wherein the activator or its precursor reacts directly with the metallic
layer without being placed directly in contact with the metallic layer.
27.     The indicating system of 26 wherein the metallic layer is bound to a substrate to
form a metallized plastic film.
28.     The indicating system of 1 wherein the activator or precursor layer does not react
with the indicator until it is exposed to an agent or a process to be monitored.
29.     The indicating system of 28, wherein the agent is humidity, steam, ethylene oxide,
formaldehyde, ozone, peracetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, a chemical agent or a biological
agent.
30.     The indicating system of 1 wherein the indicator layer is deposited on a substrate.
31      The indicating system of         30 wherein the substrate is a plastic film having a
continuous metal layer thickness of less than about 10,000 Angstroms.
32.     The indicating system of 31 wherein the indicator layer is a continuous metal layer
having a thickness of less than about 1,000 Angstroms.
33.     The indicating system of 30 wherein the indicator layer is a particulate layer having a
thickness of less than about 10 microns.
34.     The indicating system of 1 which comprises
        a) a metallic indicator layer;
        b) an activator or its precursor layer;
                                                 169

         c) a binder for the activator; and
         d) a binder which binds the activator and indicator layers.
35.      The indicating system of 34 wherein the indicator layer is affixed to a substrate.
36.      The indicating system of 35 wherein the substrate is a plastic film with a pressure
sensitive adhesive.
37.      The indicating system of 1 which comprises
         a) a metallic indicator layer;
         b) an activator or its precursor layer?; and
         c) a binder for the activator
38.      The indicating system of 37 wherein the indicator layer is affixed to a substrate.
39.      The indicating system of 38 wherein the substrate is a plastic film with a pressure
sensitive adhesive.
40.      The indicating system of 1 which comprises
         a) an indicator tape and
         b) an activator tape,
         wherein the indicator tape comprises a substrate to which is affixed at least one
metallic layer and
         wherein the activator tape comprises an activator or its precursor which is dissolved
or dispersed in at least one matrix layer.
41.      The indicating system of 1 which comprises a composite of an indicator tape and an
activator tape, bonded together with at least one bonding layer wherein the indicator tape
comprises a substrate which is affixed to at least one metallic layer; the activator tape or a
tape containing a precursor capable of producing activator is comprised of a substrate which
is affixed to at least one matrix layer containing an activator or its precursor.
42.      The indicating system of 1 which can monitor a material or a process.
43.      The indicating system of 42 wherein the material is, a chemical, a chemical agent or
a biological agent.
                                                 170

44.     The indicating system of        42 wherein the process is time, temperature, time
temperature, freeze, thaw, heating, cooling, humidity, doneness of food, microwave,
pressure, radiation and sterilization including sterilization with steam, ethylene oxide, a
peroxide, plasmas of a peroxide, formaldehyde, dry heat and ionizing radiation.
45.     The indicating system of 44 wherein the process of time-temperature is used for
monitoring shelf life, usability, freshness, of perishables comprising one or more of fresh,
refrigerated, or frozen, vegetables, fruits, meats, fish, poultry, dairy products, bakery
products, juices, pre-cooked foods, soft and alcoholic beverages, and the non-food item is a
pharmaceutical, vaccine, biological sample, cosmetics, reactive chemical compound,
biochemical product, battery, x-ray film or photographic film.
46.     The indicating system of 45 wherein the biological sample is sera, blood, or blood
plasma.
47.     The indicating system of 41 which further comprises an adhesive layer to attach the
indicating system to an item to be monitored.
48.     The indicating system of 41 comprising a substrate having a thin metallic layer, a
patterned layer of a barrier material and an activator layer, wherein when the device is
activated, the barrier material protects certain areas selected by the pattern on the indicator
layer, allowing the remaining metallic layer to create a message or at least one conductive
path for an electronic device, or a metallic pattern.
49.     The indicating system of       48 further comprising at least one electronic chip or
component connected to the conductive path.
50.     The indicating device of 12 wherein an activator tape is applied on at least a portion
of at least one conductive path of an electronic device composed of at least one electronic
chip wherein the activator has capability of destroying the conductive path.
51.     The electronic device of 50 which is a RFID or an EAS device.
52.     The indicating system of 1 which has at least one message which appears as in
color, word or symbol on at least on one side of the indicator layer.
53.     The indicating system of      52 wherein the message is on both the sides of the
indicator layer.
54.     The indicating system of 53 which contains at least two messages which do not start
to appear at the same time.
                                               171

55.     The indicating system of 54 wherein the first appearing message indicates the status
or quality of an item when the indicating system is applied on or before the treatment of the
item and the second appearing message alone or in combination with the first indicates
status or quality of the item after its treatment.
56.     The indicating system of        55 wherein the first appearing message indicates un
doneness, freshness, usability, acceptability, untreated, unexposed, or non-sterile, non
usability, not-acceptability of an item and the second appearing message alone or in
combination     with   the   first indicates   doneness,   expiration, spoilage,  not  usability
unacceptability, treated, and exposed, sterile, usability and acceptability of the item after a
treatment.
57.     The indicating system of 1 which comprises
        a) a metallic indicator in form of particles,
        b) an activator or its precursor,
        c) a binder, and
        d) at least one substrate.
58.     The indicating system of        57 wherein the indicator and activator or its precursor
comprise indicating ink, paint, gel, or plastisol.
59.     The indicating system of 58 wherein the indicating system has a liquid vehicle.
60      The indicating system of 14 wherein the precursor for the activator is an acid, base,
salt, organo-metallic compound or an agent.
61.     The indicating system of 60 wherein the precursor is phosphorous pentoxide.
62.     The indicating system of 14 which comprises a precursor for said precursor.
63.     The indicating system of        62 wherein the precursor for the precursor is white or
yellow phosphorus.
64.     The indicating system of 14 wherein the precursor is a monomeric or polymeric halo,
halide, halonium, sulfonium or phosphonium compound.
65.     The indicating system of 1 which further comprises a system wherein an additional
one or more layers are added to the system, wherein the additional layers are selected from
a binder layer, a permeable to activator layer, a wedge shaped permeable to activator layer,
                                                 172

a barrier to activator layer, a reactive, destroyable or degradable barrier layer, an expiration
indicating layer, a tamper indicating layer, an activation indicating layer, a message or image
creating   layer, separating     layer, removable    layer, naturally formed oxide layer, a
disappearing layer, activatable layer, a microencapsulated layer or a thermally printable
layer.
66.      The indicating system of 40 which comprises a sealing tape.
67.      The indicating system of      66 which comprises a sealing tape having a two tape
dispenser for the sealing tape, wherein the two tapes are dispensed simultaneously when
applying the sealing tape on a container.
68.      The indicating system of 1 which further comprises a substrate wherein a message
is printed by thermal printing.
69.      The indicating system of 68 wherein the thermal printing is direct thermal printing.
70.      The indicating system of 1 wherein the time required for a change in the indicator
layer or activation energy of the system is varied or adjusted by changing one or more of the
parameters selected from the group of: thickness of the activator layer, thickness of the
indicator layer, thickness of the permeable            layer,  concentration   of the activator,
concentration of the precursor, concentration of an additive in the activator, concentration of
an additive in the permeable layer, nature of a solvent, surfactant and a catalyst, nature of
the activator layer, nature of the indicator layer, nature of the permeable layer, nature of the
additive and nature of a reaction accelerator and retarder.
71       The indicating system of 1 which is a high accuracy optical waveguide monitor, an
electronic circuit or an EAS.
72.      The indicating system of 1 which is in the form of a safety sticker, self-timing retail
sticker, biological industrial process monitor, self-expiring sticker to prevent re-use, security
ID label, visitors badge, self-expiring parking tag, package and shipping label, wrist band,
time indicating ticket for trains, buses, spot events, theaters, self-expiring pass for tours,
emergency rooms, hospitals, museums, and other locations, race track pass, security label
for screened luggage, purse, bag at airports to indicate that such items have been inspected,
and at unmanned but video controlled entrances for visitors where a self-expiring visitor label
is issued electronically.
73.      The indicating system of 1 which is in the form of a toy, gimmick, message, pattern,
design, gift card, or greeting card.
                                                173

74.     A process to monitor the status of medical products, food, or biological waste which
comprises placing the indicating system of 1 on the packaging of such medical products,
food, or biological waste.
75.     A process to monitor the presence or absence of a toxic chemical, an agent or water
which comprises placing the indicating system of          1 in the area to be monitored and
obtaining the information from the indicating system.
76.     A process to monitor the status of a perishable item which comprises placing the
indicating system of 1 on or near the perishable item wherein the perishable item is a food
item, or a nonfood item.
77.     A process to monitor the limited time consumer use for items that have been opened
or in use and should be used within certain period which comprises placing the indicating
system of the item to be monitored, wherein the item is selected from the group of drinks,
food items, health, personal and family care products.
78      A process to make an indicating system of           1 which comprises laminating an
activator tape on a metallic indicator tape.
79      A process to make an indicating system of        1 which comprises coating a layer of
activator on a metallic indicator with an without a permeable layer, a wedge shaped
permeable layer, a barrier layer, a reactive, destroyable or degradable barrier layer, an
expiration indicating layer, a tamper indicating layer, an activation indicating layer, a
message or image creating layer, separating layer, removable layer, naturally formed oxide
layer, a disappearing layer, activatable layer, a microencapsulated layer and a thermally
printable layer.
80.     The process to make an indicating system of 79 which further comprises applying an
additional layer.
81.     The indicating system of 1 which is a part of an RFID, EAS or printed circuit board.
82.     The indicating system of       1 for the detection and quantitative measurement of
monitoring of chemical, biochemical or biological agents which comprises a metal for
monitoring chemicals, biochemical or biological agents based on etching of metal or
metallized optical wave guide.
83.     The indicating system of 43 wherein the chemical agent is a lethal agent, a blister
causing agent, a blood affecting agent, a nerve agent, a pulmonary agent, an incapacitating
agent or a riot control agent.
                                               174

84.     The indicating system of 83 which comprises cyanogen chloride, hydrogen cyanide,
ethyldichloroarsine, methyldichloroarsine, phenyldichloroarsine,          Lewisite, 1,5-dichloro-3
thiapentane,     1,2-bis(2-chloroethylthio) ethane, 1,3-bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-propane,       1,4
bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-butane,                1,5-bis(2-chloroethylthio)-n-pentane,              2
chloroethylchloromethylsulfide, bis(2-chloroethyl) sulfide, bis(2-chloroethylthio) methane,
bis(2-chloroethylthiomethyl)       ether,  bis(2-chloroethylthioethyl)   ether,   bis(2-chloroethyl)
ethylamine, bis(2-chloroethyl) methylamine, tris(2-chloroethyl)amine, tabun, cerin sarin,
soman, cyclosarin, GV, VE, VG, VM, VR, VX chlorine, chloropicrin, phosgene, diphosphene,
agent 15 (BZ), EA 3167, kolokol-1, pepper spray, CS gas, CN gas or CR gas.
85.     The indicating system of 43 wherein the chemical is a toxic industrial chemical.
86.     The indicating system of          85 wherein the toxic industrial chemical is acetone
cyanohydrin, acrolein, acrylonitrile, allyl alcohol, allyl amine, allyl chlorocarbonate, allyl
isothiocyanate, ammonia, arsenic trichloride, arsine, boron tribromide, boron trichloride,
boron trifluoride, bromine, bromine chloride, bromine pentafluoride, bromine trifluoride,
carbon disulfide, carbon monoxide, carbonyl fluoride, carbonyl sulfide, chlorine, chlorine
pentafluoride, chlorine trifluoride, chloroacetaldehyde, chloroacetone, chloroacetonitrile,
chloroacetyl     chloride,   chlorosulfonic acid,    crotonaldehyde,    cyanogen,      1,2-dimethyl
hydrazine,      diborane, diketene, dimethyl sulfate, diphenylmethane-4'-diisocyanate, ethyl
chloroformate, ethyl chlorothioformate, ethyl phosphonothioicdichloride, ethyl phosphonous
dichloride, ethylene dibromide, ethylene imine, ethylene oxide, fluorine, formaldehyde,
hexachlorocyclopentadiene, hydrogen bromide, hydrogen chloride, hydrogen cyanide,
hydrogen      fluoride,    hydrogen    iodide,  hydrogen     selenide,   hydrogen     sulfide,  iron
pentacarbonyl,      isobutyl chloroformate, isopropyl chloroformate, isopropyl isocyanate,
methanesulfonyl chloride, methyl bromide, methyl chloroformate, methyl chlorosilane, methyl
hydrazine, methyl isocyanate, methyl mercaptan, n-butyl chloroformate, n-butyl isocyanate,
nitric acid,     fuming, nitric oxide, nitrogen dioxide, n-propyl chloroformate, parathion,
perchloromethyl mercaptan, phosgene, phosphine, phosphorus oxychloride, phosphorus
pentafluoride, phosphorus trichloride, sec-butyl chloroformate, selenium hexafluoride, silicon
tetrafluoride, stibine, sulfur dioxide, sulfur trioxide, sulfuric acid, sulfuryl chloride, sulfuryl
fluoride, tellurium hexafluoride, tert-butyl isocyanate, tert-octyl mercaptan, tetraethyl lead,
tetraethyl pyrophosphate, tetramethyl lead, titanium tetrachloride, toluene 2,4-diisocyanate,
toluene 2,6-diisocyanate, trichloroacetyl        chloride, trifluoroacetyl chloride or tungsten
hexafluoride.
87.     The indicating system of 1 which is a device to monitor radon and alpha particles.
                                                  175

88.      The indicating system of 30 which comprises an indicator layer on both sides of the
substrate.
89.      The indicating system of 1 wherein the activator layer is on a substrate.
90.      The indicating system of 89 wherein there is an activator layer on both the side of
the substrate
91.      The indicating system of   1 which is an indicating device for different classes of
sterilization.
92.      A process to determine the concentration of an agent which comprises monitoring
the time required for the dissolution or partial dissolution of the indicator layer of the
indicating system of 1.
93.      A process to determine the concentration of an agent which comprises monitoring
the change in conductivity, or opacity of the indicator layer of the indicating system of 1.
                                               176

                                                 177
CLAIMS
1.     A sterilization indicating system comprising a substrate having a metallic indicator
layer on its surface, and a layer of an activator or a precursor of said activator;
       wherein the thickness of the metallic indicator layer is from about 10 Angstroms to
       about 0.01 mm, and wherein the metallic indicator layer is destroyed or partially
       destroyed when exposed to humidity, ionizing radiation steam, ethylene oxide, plasma,
       formaldehyde, dry heat, hydrogen peroxide or a mixture thereof to cause an irreversible
       change in opacity, reflectivity or electrical conductivity of the metallic indicator layer.
2.     The sterilization indicating system of claim 1 wherein the metallic indicator and the
activator are in form of particles in a binder.
3.     The sterilization indicating system of claim 1 or 2, comprising a protective layer.
4.     The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1-3, comprising an indicator
tape and an activator tape, wherein the indicator tape comprises a substrate to which is
affixed at least one metallic layer, and wherein the activator tape comprises an activator or
precursor of the activator which is dissolved or dispersed in at least one matrix layer capable
of rendering the said metallic layer transparent upon reaction.
5.     The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1-3, comprising a composite of
an indicator tape and an activator tape, bonded together with at least one bonding layer,
wherein the indicator tape comprises a substrate to which is affixed at least one metallic
layer, and wherein the activator tape comprises an activator or precursor of the activator
which is dissolved or dispersed in at least one matrix layer capable of rendering the said
metallic layer transparent upon reaction.
6.     The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the metallic
indicator has an oxide layer.
7.     The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1-6, wherein after the metallic
indicator is contacted with the activator, its reaction product has at least one property selected

                                                    178
from the group consisting of being non-conductive, non-reflective, permeable, transparent
and semi-transparent.
8.     The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the metallic
indicator comprises a metal, a metal alloy, or a semi-conducting material.
9.     The sterilization indicating system of claim 8 wherein the metal is selected from
aluminum, tin, zinc, copper, manganese, magnesium, nickel, cobalt, iron, sodium, potassium,
lithium, calcium, gallium, cesium, germanium, indium, silver or their alloys.
10.    The sterilization indicating system of claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the activator
comprises a composition that reacts with the metal, metal alloy, or semi-conducting material
in the metallic indicator layer to cause an irreversible change in the chemical composition of
the metallic indicator layer.
11.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the activator
comprises at least one agent selected from water, oxygen or organic or inorganic acids, bases,
salts, chemical or biological agents or chelates.
12.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the activator is
selected from phosphoric acid, phosphorous acid, hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid,
sulfonic acid, or a mixture thereof; a hydroxide, alkoxide, or aryloxide of a metal or a cation
of nitrogen; a halide, oxide, borate, nitrate, nitrite, phosphate, phosphite, phosphonate,
silicate, sulfate, bisulfate, sulfite, sulfide, bisulfide, sulfonate, cyanate, cyanide, thiocyanate,
acetylacetonate, carboxylate, percarboxylate, carbonate or bicarbonate anion of a mono, di
and trivalent cation of a metal or cation of nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorous, halogens or mixture
thereof; ammonium bromide, ammonium thiocyanate, calcium chloride, copper chloride,
copper ammonia complex, lithium acetylacetonate, lithium chloride, lithium formate,
phosphorous, phosphorous pentoxide, potassium acetate, potassium benzoate, potassium
bromide, potassium chloride, potassium ferrocyanide, potassium ferricyanide, potassium
formate, sodium acetate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium bromide, sodium carbonate, sodium
cyanate, sodium diethyldithiocarbamate, sodium iodide, sodium metasilicate, sodium nitrate,
sodium sulfite, sodium tetrafluoroborate, sodium tetraborate, sodium thiocyanate, sodium
thiosulfate, tetraethylammonium bromide, zinc chloride or a mixture thereof; a chelate or

                                                179
complex of a metal cation; an amine or ammonia complex of copper chloride or nickel
chloride.
13.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the activator is
oxygen, chemical vapor or water.
14.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the activator
or its precursor does not react with the indicator until it is exposed to an agent or a process to
be monitored.
15.    The sterilization indicating system of claim 14, wherein the agent is humidity, steam,
ethylene oxide, formaldehyde, ozone, peracetic acid, hydrogen peroxide, a chemical agent or
a biological agent.
16.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 15 which can monitor: a
material including a chemical, a chemical agent or a biological agent; or a process including
freezing heating or cooling; humidity; pressure; radiation; or sterilization, including
sterilization with steam, ethylene oxide, a peroxide, plasmas of a peroxide, formaldehyde, dry
heat or ionizing radiation.
17.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 16, further comprising a
patterned layer of a barrier material, wherein when the device is activated, the barrier material
protects certain areas selected by the pattern on the metallic indicator layer, allowing the
remaining metallic indicator layer to create a message or at least one conductive path for an
electronic device, or a metallic pattern.
18.    The sterilization indicating system of claim 17 further comprising at least one
electronic chip or component connected to the conductive path.
19.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 18 which has at least one
message which appears as in color, word or symbol.
20.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 19 which further comprises
a system wherein an additional one or more layers are added to the system, wherein the
additional layers are selected from a layer permeable to activator, a wedge shaped layer

                                                 180
permeable to activator, a reactive layer, a destroyable or degradable barrier layer, an
expiration indicating layer, a tamper indicating layer, an activation indicating layer, a
message or image creating layer, a separating layer, a removable layer, a disappearing layer,
an activatable layer, a microencapsulated layer or a thermally printable layer.
21.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 20, comprising an activator
layer, said activator layer comprising an activator, or a precursor of said activator; and a
permeable layer; wherein the time required for a change in the indicator layer or activation
energy of the system is varied or adjusted by changing one or more of the parameters selected
from the group consisting of: thickness of the activator layer; thickness of the metallic
indicator layer; thickness of the permeable layer; concentration of the activator; concentration
of the precursor; concentration of an additive in the activator; concentration of an additive in
the permeable layer; nature of a solvent, surfactant or a catalyst; nature of the activator layer;
nature of the indicator layer; nature of the permeable layer; nature of the additive; and nature
of a reaction accelerator or retarder.
22.    The sterilization indicating system of any one of claims 1 to 21 which is a high
accuracy optical waveguide monitor; an electronic circuit; an EAS; a safety sticker; self
timing retail sticker; biological industrial process monitor; self-expiring sticker to prevent re
use; security ID label; visitors badge; self-expiring parking tag; package or shipping label;
wrist band; time indicating ticket for trains, buses, spot events, or theaters; self-expiring pass
for tours, emergency rooms, hospitals, museums, or other location; race track pass; security
label for screened luggage, purse, bag at airports to indicate that such items have been
inspected, or at unmanned but video controlled entrances for visitors where a self-expiring
visitor label is issued electronically; toy; gimmick; message; pattern; design; gift card; or
greeting card.
                                            G N PATEL
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

