                                         ABSTRACT
          A method for providing patient-specific blood flow information using at least
one computer system, the at least one computer system including a touchscreen, the
method comprising:
          displaying, on the touchscreen, a three-dimensional model generated based
on patient-specific data, the three-dimensional model representing at least a portion
of an anatomical structure of the patient;
          receiving a first input relating to a first location on the touchscreen indicated
by a user, the first location on the touchscreen indicating a first location in the
displayed three-dimensional model;
          displaying, on the touchscreen, at least one blood flow characteristic value at
the first location in the three-dimensional model indicated by the first input; and
          determining and dynamically updating a display of the at least one blood flow
characteristic value as a user drags a finger or a pointing object across the
touchscreen.
Documents - 31/1/18

                        1/6
   Patient-Specific         10      Deduced FLaws    L   20
                            1         eue      rm2
   Anatomical Data
                                   Experimental Data
            S----        - --   --   -
          Governing Equations of Blood Flow &r/ 30
                 COMPUTER SYSTEM                       -  40
Information Indicating          Reduced-Order Model
      Blood Flow             50       for Modeling        60
   Characteristic(s)               Treatment Options
                  TABLET COMPUTER                         70
                       FIG. 1

5/6
 FIG. 5

            METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING INFORMATION FROM A
                   PATIENT-SPECIFIC MODEL OF BLOOD FLOW
                                    RELATED APPLICATION
        [001]    This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/470,802, which was filed on May 14, 2012, the entirety of which is
incorporated herein by reference.
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
        [002]    Embodiments include methods and systems for using models of fluid
flow and more particularly methods and systems for providing information from
patient-specific models of blood flow.
                                          BACKGROUND
        [003]     Coronary artery disease may produce coronary lesions in the blood
vessels providing blood to the heart, such as a stenosis (abnormal narrowing of a
blood vessel). As a result, blood flow to the heart may be restricted. A patient
suffering from coronary artery disease may experience chest pain, referred to as
chronic stable angina during physical exertion or unstable angina when the patient is
at rest. A more severe manifestation of disease may lead to myocardial infarction,
or heart attack.
        [004]     Patients suffering from chest pain and/or exhibiting symptoms of
coronary artery disease may be subjected to one or more tests that may provide
some indirect evidence relating to coronary lesions. For example, noninvasive
tests may include electrocardiograms, biomarker evaluation from blood tests,
treadmill tests, echocardiography, single positron emission computed tomography
(SPECT), and positron emission tomography (PET). The noninvasive tests may
provide indirect evidence of coronary lesions by looking for changes in electrical
activity of the heart (e.g., using electrocardiography (ECG)), motion of the
myocardium (e.g., using stress echocardiography), perfusion of the myocardium
(e.g., using PET or SPECT), or metabolic changes (e.g., using biomarkers). These
noninvasive tests, however, do not predict outcomes of interventions.
                                                 1

        [005]      For example, anatomic data may be obtained noninvasively using
coronary computed tomographic angiography (CCTA). CCTA may be used for
imaging of patients with chest pain and involves using computed tomography (CT)
technology to image the heart and the coronary arteries following an intravenous
infusion of a contrast agent. However, CCTA cannot provide direct information on
the functional significance of coronary lesions, e.g., whether the lesions affect blood
flow. In addition, since CCTA is purely a diagnostic test, it does not predict
outcomes of interventions.
        [006]       Invasive testing may also be performed on patients. For
example, diagnostic cardiac catheterization may include performing conventional
coronary angiography (CCA) to gather anatomic data on coronary lesions by
providing a doctor with an image of the size and shape of the arteries. However,
CCA also does not predict outcomes of interventions.
        [007]       Thus, a need exists for a method to predict outcomes of
medical, interventional, and surgical treatments on coronary artery blood
flow.
        [008]        It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description
and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are
not restrictive of the disclosure.
                                           SUMMARY
        [009]        In accordance with an embodiment, a system for providing blood
flow information for a patient may include at least one computer system including a
touchscreen. The at least one computer system may be configured to display, on
the touchscreen, a three-dimensional model representing at least a portion of an
anatomical structure of the patient based on patient-specific data. The at least one
computer system may also be configured to receive a first input relating to a first
location on the touchscreen indicated by at least one pointing object controlled by a
user, and the first location on the touchscreen may indicate a first location on the
displayed three-dimensional model. The at least one computer system may be
further configured to display first information on the touchscreen, and the first
information may indicate a blood flow characteristic at the first location.
        [010]      In accordance with another embodiment, a method for providing
patient- specific blood flow information using at least one computer system
                                                 2

including a touchscreen may include displaying, on the touchscreen, a three
dimensional model based on patient-specific data. The three-dimensional model
may represent at least a portion of an anatomical structure of the patient. The
method may also include receiving a first input relating to a first location on the
touchscreen indicated by at least one pointing object controlled by a user, and the
first location on the touchscreen may indicate a first location in the displayed three
dimensional model. The method may also include displaying first information on
the touchscreen, and the first information may indicate a blood flow characteristic at
the location in the three-dimensional model indicated by the first input. The method
may further include receiving a second input indicating a modification of the three
dimensional model and determining second information regarding the blood flow
characteristic in the anatomical structure based on the modification of the three
dimensional model.
         [011]      In accordance with a further embodiment, a non-transitory
computer readable medium for use on at least one computer system may
contain computer-executable programming instructions for performing a
method for providing patient-specific blood flow information. The at least one
computer system may include a touchscreen, and the method may include
displaying a three-dimensional model representing at least a portion of an
anatomical structure of the patient based on patient-specific data and receiving
a first input relating to a first location on the touchscreen indicated by at least
one pointing object controlled by a user. The first input may indicate a location
of a stent for placement in the anatomical structure. The method may also
include displaying the stent on the three-dimensional model on the touchscreen
and determining second information regarding a blood flow characteristic
at a plurality of locations in the three-dimensional model based on a modification of
the three-dimensional model reflecting the placement of the stent at the location
indicated in the first input.
         [012]      Additional embodiments and advantages will be set forth in part in
the description which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or
may be learned by practice of the disclosure. The embodiments and advantages
will be realized and attained by means of the elements and combinations
particularly pointed out below.
                                                    3

                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        [013]      The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and
constitute a part of this specification, illustrate several embodiments and together
with the description, serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.
       [014]        Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram of a system for providing various
information relating to blood flow in a specific patient, according to an
embodiment;
        [015]      Fig. 2 is an image showing calculated fractional flow reserve
(FFR) within a three-dimensional model representing a portion of a patient's
aorta and a plurality of coronary arteries emanating from the patient's aorta,
according to an embodiment;
        [016]      Fig. 3 is an image showing calculated pressure gradient within a
three-dimensional model representing a portion of a patient's aorta and a plurality of
coronary arteries emanating from the patient's aorta, according to an embodiment;
       [017]       Fig. 4 is an image showing calculated FFR within a three
dimensional model representing a portion of a patient's aorta and a plurality of
coronary arteries emanating from the patient's aorta, and a stent for placement in
a coronary artery, according to an embodiment;
       [018]       Fig. 5 is an image showing a three-dimensional model representing
a portion of a patient's aorta and a plurality of coronary arteries emanating from the
patient's aorta, and a plurality of stents for placement in a coronary artery, according
to an embodiment; and
       [019]       Fig. 6 is an image showing a split screen with the model and
stent of Fig. 4 in one screen portion and a three-dimensional model modified
based on the placement of the stent in another screen portion, according to an
embodiment.
                             DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
        [020]       Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments,
examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever
possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer
to the same or like parts.
                                                   4

        [021]     In an exemplary embodiment, a method and system determines
various information relating to blood flow in a specific patient using information
retrieved from the patient. The determined information may relate to blood flow in
the patient's coronary vasculature. Alternatively, the determined information may
relate to blood flow in other areas of the patient's vasculature, such as carotid,
peripheral, abdominal, renal, and cerebral vasculature.
        [022]    The coronary vasculature includes a complex network of vessels
ranging from large arteries to arterioles, capillaries, venules, veins, etc. The
coronary vasculature circulates blood to and within the heart and includes an aorta 2
(Fig. 2) that supplies blood to a plurality of main coronary arteries 4 (Fig. 2) (e.g., the
left anterior descending (LAD) artery, the left circumflex (LCX) artery, the right
coronary (RCA) artery, etc.), which may further divide into branches of arteries or
other types of vessels downstream from the aorta 2 and the main coronary arteries 4.
Thus, the exemplary method and system may determine various information relating
to blood flow within the aorta, the main coronary arteries, and/or other coronary
arteries or vessels downstream from the main coronary arteries. Although the aorta
and coronary arteries (and the branches that extend therefrom) are discussed below,
the disclosed method and system may also apply to other types of vessels.
        [023]      In an exemplary embodiment, the information determined by the
disclosed methods and systems may include, but is not limited to, various blood
flow characteristics or parameters, such as blood flow velocity, pressure gradient,
pressure (or a ratio thereof), flow rate, and fractional flow reserve (FFR) at various
locations in the aorta, the main coronary arteries, and/or other coronary arteries or
vessels downstream from the main coronary arteries. This information may be
used to determine whether a lesion is functionally significant and/or whether to
treat the lesion, and/or to predict the results of various treatment options. This
information may be determined using information obtained noninvasively from the
patient. As a result, the decision whether to treat a lesion may be made without
the cost and risk associated with invasive procedures.
        [024]     Fig. 1 shows aspects of a system for providing various information
relating to coronary blood flow in a specific patient, according to an embodiment.
Additional details relating to various embodiments of methods and systems for
determining blood flow information in a specific patient are disclosed, for example,
                                                 5

in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012/0041739 entitled "Method And
System For Patient-Specific Modeling Of Blood Flow," which is incorporated by
reference in its entirety.
        [025]      Patient-specific anatomical data 10 may be obtained, such as
data regarding the geometry of the patient's heart, e.g., at least a portion of the
patient's aorta, a proximal portion of the main coronary arteries (and the branches
extending therefrom) connected to the aorta, and the myocardium. The patient
specific anatomical data 10 may be obtained noninvasively, e.g., using a
noninvasive imaging method. For example, CCTA is an imaging method in which
a user may operate a computer tomography (CT) scanner to view and create
images of structures, e.g., the myocardium, the aorta, the main coronary arteries,
and other blood vessels connected thereto. Alternatively, other noninvasive
imaging methods, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or ultrasound (US),
or invasive imaging methods, such as digital subtraction angiography (DSA), may
be used to produce images of the structures of the patient's anatomy. The
resulting imaging data (e.g., provided by CCTA, MRI, etc.) may be provided by a
third-party vendor, such as a radiology lab or a cardiologist, by the patient's
physician, etc. Other patient-specific anatomical data 10 may also be determined
from the patient noninvasively, e.g., blood pressure in the patient's brachial artery
(e.g., using a pressure cuff), such as the maximum (systolic) and minimum
(diastolic) pressures.
        [026]      A three-dimensional model 12 (Figs. 2 and 3) of the patient's
anatomy may be created using the patient-specific anatomical data 10. In an
embodiment, the portion of the patient's anatomy that is represented by the model 12
may include at least a portion of the aorta 2 and a proximal portion of the main
coronary arteries 4 (and the branches extending or emanating therefrom) connected
to the aorta 2. The three-dimensional model 12 may also include other portions of
the patient's anatomy, such as the left and/or right ventricles, calcium and/or plaque
within the coronary arteries 4 and/or the branches, other tissue connected to and/or
surrounding the coronary arteries 4 and/or the branches, etc.
        [027]      Various physiological laws or relationships 20 relating to coronary
blood flow may be deduced, e.g., from experimental data. Using the model 12 and
the deduced physiological laws 20, a plurality of equations 30 relating to coronary
                                                6

blood flow may be determined. For example, the equations 30 may be determined
and solved using any numerical method, e.g., finite difference, finite volume,
spectral, lattice Boltzmann, particle-based, level set, finite element methods, etc.
The equations 30 may be solvable to determine information (e.g., pressure,
pressure gradients, FFR, etc.) relating to the coronary blood flow in the patient's
anatomy at various points in the anatomy represented by the model 12.
        [028]      In an embodiment, the model 12 may be prepared for analysis and
boundary conditions may be determined. For example, the model 12 may be
trimmed and discretized into a volumetric mesh, e.g., a finite element or finite
volume mesh. The volumetric mesh may be used to generate the equations 30.
        [029]      Boundary conditions may be determined using the physiological
laws 20 and incorporated into the equations 30. The boundary conditions may
provide information about the model 12 at its boundaries, e.g., the inflow boundaries,
the outflow boundaries, the vessel wall boundaries, etc. The inflow boundaries may
include the boundaries through which flow is directed into the anatomy of the three
dimensional model, such as at an end of the aorta near the aortic root. Each inflow
boundary may be assigned, e.g., with a prescribed value or field for velocity, flow
rate, pressure, or other characteristic, by coupling a heart model and/or a lumped
parameter model to the boundary, etc. The outflow boundaries may include the
boundaries through which flow is directed outward from the anatomy of the three
dimensional model, such as at an end of the aorta near the aortic arch, and the
downstream ends of the main coronary arteries and the branches that extend
therefrom. Each outflow boundary can be assigned, e.g., by coupling a lumped
parameter or distributed (e.g., a one-dimensional wave propagation) model. The
prescribed values for the inflow and/or outflow boundary conditions may be
determined by noninvasively measuring physiologic characteristics of the patient,
such as, but not limited to, cardiac output (the volume of blood flow from the heart),
blood pressure, myocardial mass, etc. The vessel wall boundaries may include the
physical boundaries of the aorta, the main coronary arteries, and/or other coronary
arteries or vessels of the model 12.
        [030]     The equations 30 may be solved using a computer system 40.
Based on the solved equations 30, the computer system 40 may output
information 50 indicating one or more blood flow characteristics, such as FFR,
                                                7

blood pressure (or pressure gradient), blood flow, or blood velocity, determined
based on the solution of the equations 30. The computer system 40 may output
images generated based on the model 12 and the information 50 or other results
of the computational analysis, as described below. The information 50 may be
determined under simulated conditions of increased coronary blood flow or
hyperemia conditions, e.g., conventionally induced by intravenous administration
of adenosine. For example, the boundary conditions described above may
specifically model conditions of increased coronary blood flow, hyperemia
conditions, and/or the effect of adenosine.
        [031]      Fig. 2 shows a computed FFR model 100 that may be output from
the computer system 40. The computed FFR model 100 may include the geometry
of the anatomical structure based on the model 12 and may also indicate the
information 50 output from the computer system 40, such as the values of FFR at
various locations along three-dimensions in the model 12. FFR may be calculated
as the ratio of the blood pressure at a particular location in the model 12 (e.g., in a
coronary artery) divided by the blood pressure in the aorta, e.g., at the inflow
boundary of the model 12, under conditions of increased coronary blood flow or
hyperemia conditions. A corresponding color, shade, pattern, or other visual
indicator may be assigned to the respective FFR values throughout the computed
FFR model 100 such that the computed FFR model 100 may visually indicate the
variations in FFR throughout the model 100 without having to visually indicate the
individual numerical values for each point in the model 100.
        [032]     A scale or key 110 may be provided that indicates which
numerical values of FFR correspond to which colors, shades, patterns, or other
visual indicators. For example, the computed FFR model 100 may be provided in
color, and a color spectrum may be used to indicate variations in computed FFR
throughout the model 100. The color spectrum may include red, yellow, green,
cyan, and blue, in order from lowest computed FFR (indicating functionally
significant lesions) to highest computed FFR. For example, the upper limit (blue)
may indicate an FFR of 1.0, and the lower limit (red) may indicate approximately
0.7 (or 0.75 or 0.8) or less, with green indicating approximately 0.85 (or other
value approximately halfway between the upper and lower limits). For example,
the lower limit may be determined based on a lower limit (e.g., 0.7, 0.75, or 0.8)
                                                8

used for determining whether the computed FFR indicates a functionally
significant lesion or other feature that may require intervention. Thus, the
computed FFR model 100 for some patients may show a majority or all of the
aorta as blue or other color towards the higher end of the spectrum, and the
colors may change gradually through the spectrum (e.g., towards the lower end of
the spectrum (down to anywhere from red to blue)) towards the distal ends of the
coronary arteries and the branches that extend therefrom. The distal ends of the
coronary arteries for a particular patient may have different colors, e.g., anywhere
from red to blue, depending on the local values of computed FFR determined for
the respective distal ends.
        [033]      For example, the computed FFR model 100 of Fig. 2 may show
that, for this particular patient, under simulated hyperemia conditions, the computed
FFR is generally uniform and approximately 1.0 in the aorta (e.g., as indicated by
the color blue), and that the computed FFR gradually and continuously decreases
(e.g., to values ranging from near 1.0 down to approximately 0.9, as indicated by
gradually changing colors from blue to cyan or a mix of blue and cyan) as the blood
flows downstream into the main coronary arteries and into the branches. However,
at certain areas, such as areas 112 and 114, there may be sharper decreases in
computed FFR. For example, between the aorta and area 112 in one of the
coronary arteries, the computed FFR model 100 may indicate generally constant
values (e.g., approximately 1.0, as indicated by the color blue) or gradually
decreasing values in computed FFR (e.g., to values ranging from near 1.0 down to
approximately 0.9, as indicated by gradually changing colors from blue to cyan or a
mix of blue and cyan). At area 112, the computed FFR model 100 may indicate a
drop in computed FFR to approximately 0.8 (e.g., as indicated by colors changing
from blue and/or cyan, to green and/or yellow). Between the areas 112 and 114,
the computed FFR model 100 may indicate generally constant values (e.g.,
approximately 0.8, as indicated by the colors green and/or yellow) or gradually
decreasing values in computed FFR (e.g., to values slightly less than 0.8, as
indicated by colors that are more yellow than green). At area 114, the computed
FFR model 100 may indicate a drop in computed FFR to approximately 0.7 or
below (e.g., as indicated by colors changing from green and/or yellow, to red).
Downstream of the area 114 and to the distal end of the coronary artery, the
                                                 9

computed FFR model 100 may indicate that the computed FFR is approximately
0.7 or below (e.g., as indicated by the color red).
        [034]     Based on the computed FFR model 100, a user may determine
that the computed FFR has dropped below the lower limit used for determining the
presence of a functionally significant lesion or other feature that may require
intervention (e.g., based on the location(s) of areas colored red in the computed
FFR model 100 or otherwise indicating a value of computed FFR that is below the
lower limit), and the user may also be able to locate the functionally significant
lesion(s). The user may locate the functionally significant lesion(s) based on the
geometry of the artery or branch (e.g., using the computed FFR model 100). For
example, the functionally significant lesion(s) may be located by finding a
narrowing or stenosis located near (e.g., upstream from) the location(s) of the
computed FFR model 100 indicating the local minimum FFR value.
        [035]     Fig. 3 shows a computed pressure gradient model 200 that may
be output from the computer system 40. The computed pressure gradient model
200 may include the geometry of the anatomical structure based on the model 12
and may also indicate the information 50 output from the computer system 40,
such as the values of blood pressure gradient at various locations along three
dimensions in the model 12. The computed pressure gradient model 200 may
show the local blood pressure gradient (e.g., in millimeters of mercury (mmHg) per
centimeter) throughout the model 12 under simulated hyperemia conditions or
other conditions. A corresponding color, shade, pattern, or other visual indicator
may be assigned to the respective pressures gradients such that the model 200
may visually indicate variations in pressure gradient throughout the model 200
without having to visually indicate the individual pressure gradient numerical
values for each point in the model 200.
        [036]     A scale or key 210 may be provided that indicates which
numerical values of pressure gradient correspond to which colors, shades,
patterns, or other visual indicators. For example, the computed pressure gradient
model 200 may be provided in color, and a color spectrum may be used to indicate
variations in pressure throughout the model 200. The color spectrum may include
red, yellow, green, cyan, and blue, in order from highest pressure gradient, which
may indicate functionally significant lesions, to lowest pressure gradient. For
                                               10

example, the upper limit (red) may indicate approximately 20 mmHg/cm or more,
and the lower limit (blue) may indicate approximately 0 mmHg/cm or less, with
green indicating approximately 10 mmHg/cm (or other value approximately
halfway between the upper and lower limits). Thus, the computed pressure
gradient model 200 for some patients may show a majority or all of the aorta as
blue and/or cyan, or other color towards the lower end of the spectrum, and the
colors may change gradually through the spectrum (e.g., towards the higher end of
the spectrum (up to red)) at areas having higher pressure gradients.
        [037]      For example, the computed pressure gradient model 200 of Fig.
3 may show that, for this particular patient, under simulated hyperemia conditions,
the pressure gradient may be generally uniform and approximately zero mmHg/cm
(e.g., as indicated by the colors blue and/or cyan) in the aorta and in most of the
main coronary arteries and the branches. The computed pressure gradient model
200 may indicate a gradual increase in pressure gradient such that some areas
212 in the main coronary arteries and the branches indicate values of
approximately 5 mmHg/cm to approximately 10 mmHg/cm (e.g., as indicated by
the colors cyan and/or green), some areas 214 in the main coronary arteries and
the branches indicate values of approximately 10 mmHg/cm to approximately 15
mmHg/cm (e.g., as indicated by the colors green and/or yellow),and some areas
216 in the main coronary arteries and the branches indicate values of greater than
approximately 15 mmHg/cm (e.g., as indicated by the colors yellow and/or red).
        [038]     Based on the computed pressure gradient model 200, a user may
determine that the computed pressure gradient has increased above a certain
level (e.g., approximately 20 mmHg/cm), which may indicate the presence of a
functionally significant lesion or other feature that may require intervention, and the
user may also be able to locate the functionally significant lesion(s). The user may
locate the functionally significant lesion(s) based on the geometry of the artery or
branch (e.g., using the computed pressure gradient model 200). For example, the
functionally significant lesion(s) may be located by finding a narrowing or stenosis
located near the location(s) of the computed pressure gradient model 200
indicating a value of approximately 20 mmHg/cm or higher.
        [039]     The computer FFR model 100, the computed blood pressure
gradient model 200, or other model may also include other information, such as
                                                11

geometry information (e.g., numerical values for vessel inner diameter, thickness,
etc.), throughout the model 100 or 200. The information relating to a particular
location on the model may be displayed to the user upon selection of the location
of the model as described below.
         [040]    The computer system 40 may allow the user to select whether to
output the computed FFR model 100, the computed blood pressure gradient
model 200, or other model, and/or to specify other color mappings or rendering
styles (e.g., x-ray rendering).
         [041]     Referring back to Fig. 1, the computer system 40 may include one
or more non-transitory computer-readable storage devices that store instructions
that, when executed by a processor, computer system, etc., may perform any of
the actions described herein for providing various information relating to blood flow
in the patient. The computer system 40 may include a desktop or portable
computer, a workstation, a server, a personal digital assistant, or any other
computer system. The computer system 40 may include a processor, a read-only
memory (ROM), a random access memory (RAM), an input/output (110) adapter
for connecting peripheral devices (e.g., an input device, output device, storage
device, etc.), a user interface adapter for connecting input devices such as a
keyboard, a mouse, a touch screen, a voice input, and/or other devices, a
communications adapter for connecting the computer system 40 to a network, a
display adapter for connecting the computer system 40 to a display, etc. For
example, the display may be used to display the model 12 and/or any images
generated by solving the equations 30 (e.g., the computed FFR model 100, the
computed blood pressure gradient model 200, and/or the other models described
below).
         [042]     The patient-specific anatomical data 10 may be transferred
over a secure communication line (e.g., via a wireless or wired network) to
the computer system 40, which may create the model 12 and solve the
equations 30. For example, in an embodiment, the data 10 may be
transferred from the third-party vendor that obtains the patient-specific
anatomical data 10 to the computer system 40 operated by the patient's
physician or other user.
                                                12

        [043]     In an embodiment, the computer system 40 may output the
information 50 indicating one or more blood flow characteristics, the computed FFR
model 100, the computed blood pressure gradient model 200, and/or other output
from the computer system 40 based on the solution of the equations 30 to a tablet
computer 70 (or other mobile or handheld computing device), such as Apple Inc.'s
iPad@, over a secure communication line (e.g., via a wireless or wired network, using
a web-based service, etc.). The tablet computer 70 may be operated by the patient's
physician or other user, such as the patient. The tablet computer 70 may include a
touchscreen. Various screenshots of the touchscreen are shown in Figs. 2-6 and
described below. The touchscreen may be configured to receive input from the user
based on contact by at least one of the user's digits (e.g., at least one of the user's
fingers or thumbs) on a surface of the touchscreen as described below. The
following description relates to embodiments in which the touchscreen is configured
to receive input from contact by the user's finger(s) on the surface of the
touchscreen. However, it is understood that the touchscreen may be configured to
receive input from the user based on contact or sensed proximity to the touchscreen
by the user's finger(s), the user's thumb(s), a stylus, another pointing object or
instrument, or a combination thereof.
        [044]      Thus, in an embodiment, the computer system 40 may perform
more complicated operations, such as solving the equations 30, while the tablet
computer 70 may be a portable system for displaying the results of the solution of
the equations 30 by the computer system 40 and for performing less complicated
computations. The tablet computer 70 may allow the patient's physician, the patient,
or other user to access information from the model 12, 100, or 200, and manipulate
the model 12, 100, or 200 as described below. The tablet computer 70 may also be
configured to allow the user to select treatment options using the tablet computer 70.
The tablet computer 70 may determine or predict the blood flow characteristic(s)
(e.g., FFR, blood pressure (or pressure gradient), etc.) in the patient's anatomical
structure based on the selected treatment options as described below.
        [045]     For example, as shown in Figs. 2-4, the tablet computer 70 may
provide two mode selection buttons 310 and 320 that allow the user to switch
between two modes. Touching the first button 310 allows the user to select the first
operating mode (e.g., an inspection mode), and touching the second button 320
                                               13

allows the user to select the second operating mode (e.g., a percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI) mode).
        [046]     Figs. 2 and 3 are images illustrating screen shots of the tablet
computer 70 operating in the first operating mode. In the first operating mode, the
tablet computer 70 may display information indicating one or more blood flow
characteristics of the patient in the patient's current condition, e.g., the computed
FFR model 100 (Fig. 2), the computed pressure gradient model 200 (Fig. 3), or other
model providing the information 50 output from the computer system 40. Inputs
received from the user using the tablet computer 70 in the first operating mode may
allow the user to interact with and manipulate the displayed information regarding the
patient's current condition.
        [047]     The tablet computer 70 may be configured to determine when the
user's finger(s) contact the surface of the touchscreen at a location corresponding
to a location on the displayed model 100 or 200 (and a corresponding location in the
patient's anatomical structure). Based on this input, the tablet computer 70 may
determine the numerical value of a blood flow characteristic (e.g., FFR, blood
pressure (or pressure gradient), and/or other blood flow characteristic selected by
the user) at the indicated location on the displayed model 100 or 200, and may
display the determined numerical value. The displayed numerical value may be
dynamically updated as the user drags the finger(s) along the surface of the
touchscreen and along the displayed model 100 or 200. Thus, the user may touch
any point on the model 12, 100, or 200 to determine the numerical value of any of
the blood flow characteristics described above, e.g., FFR, blood pressure (or
pressure gradient), and/or other blood flow characteristic, at that point. Additional
information relating to the indicated point on the model 12, 100, or 200 may also be
displayed to the user, such as geometry information (e.g., a numerical value of the
vessel inner diameter, etc.).
        [048]     For example, the tablet computer 70 may be configured to
determine when the user's finger(s) contact the surface of the touchscreen for a
predetermined time (e.g., a touch and hold) at a location corresponding to a
location on the displayed model 100 or 200. Based on this input, the tablet
computer 70 may create a tag or pin 330 that points to the indicated location within
the displayed model 100 or 200. The user can then drag or move the pin 330
                                                14

anywhere within the displayed model 100 or 200 to determine the numerical value
of a blood flow characteristic at the indicated location on the displayed model 100
or 200 to which the pin 330 has been dragged. The numerical value may be
dynamically updated as the pin 330 is dragged. The tablet computer 70 may
display the determined numerical value within or near the pin 330. For example, in
Figs. 2 and 3, the pin 330 points to a location in one of the coronary arteries
illustrated in the model 100 where the FFR value is 0.58. The pin 330 may also
indicate other information regarding the indicated location, such as a dimension
(e.g., diameter) of the vessel at the indicated location. The tablet computer 70 may
allow the user to create more than one pin 330 to drag separately around the
model 100 or 200, and remove the pin(s) 330, as desired.
         [049]     When the user's finger(s) contact the surface of the touchscreen
(e.g., for less than the amount of time associated with creating the pin 330) at a
location corresponding to a location on the displayed model 100 or 200, then the
tablet computer 70 may determine that the user has selected a particular coronary
artery (and/or the branches connected thereto) and may fade (e.g., dim or decrease
the brightness of) the other coronary arteries and branches.
         [050]     Alternatively, or in addition, the selected location may become a
new focal point of view for the displayed model 100 or 200, and/or a new local
origin for transformations, such as rotation and zoom. This allows the user to
focus in on a potential stenosis, and to rotate around or zoom to (or away from)
any user-defined point.
         [051]     The tablet computer 70 may also be configured to determine when
the user's finger(s) swipe or drag on the surface of the touchscreen (e.g., at a
location away from the pin 330). Based on this input, the tablet computer 70 may
rotate the displayed model 100 or 200. The amount and direction of rotation may
depend on the distance that the finger(s) travel in contacting the surface of the
touchscreen during the swipe and the direction of the swipe along the surface of the
touchscreen.
         [052]     The tablet computer 70 may also be configured to determine when
the user's fingers pinch the surface of the touchscreen. If the user's fingers move
closer together, the tablet computer 70 may zoom out from the displayed model
100 or 200. If the user's fingers move away from each other, the tablet computer
                                                  15

70 may zoom in on the displayed model 100 or 200. The amount of the zoom may
depend on the distance that the finger(s) travel in the pinch along the surface of
the touchscreen.
        [053]     As the user manipulates the view of the displayed model 100 or 200
(e.g., by rotating, zooming in or away, changing the focal point, etc.), the tube
angulation or other information for characterizing the direction from which the
anatomical structure is being viewed may be displayed to the user and
dynamically updated. For example, the information may be provided in the
form of left anterior oblique (LAO), right anterior oblique (RAO), caudal
(GAUD), and/or cranial (GRAN) angles, e.g., LAO 200 and GRAN 00, as known
in the art.
        [054]      Figs. 4-6 are images illustrating screen shots of the tablet
computer 70 operating in the second operating mode (e.g., the PGI mode)
selected by the user by touching the second button 320. Inputs received from the
user using the tablet computer 70 in the second operating mode allow the user to
plan treatment options using the displayed model 400, which may be created
based on the model 12 (e.g., a model reflecting the geometry of the patient's
anatomical structure without additional information indicating blood flow
characteristic(s)), the computed FFR model 100 (Fig. 2), the computed pressure
gradient model 200 (Fig. 3), or other model providing information 50 indicating a
blood flow characteristic of the patient in the patient's current condition. The tablet
computer 70 may display predicted information regarding the blood flow
characteristic(s) (e.g., FFR, blood pressure (or pressure gradient), etc.) based on
the selected the treatment option.
        [055]     Fig. 4 shows a screen shot of the tablet computer 70 operating in
the second operating mode to allow the user to select a treatment option using the
model 400. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 4, the model 400 is created based
on the computed FFR model 100. Alternatively, the model 400 may be created
based on the model 12, the computed pressure gradient model 200, and/or other
model. The tablet computer 70 may be configured to determine when the user's
finger(s) contact the surface of the touchscreen (e.g., for a predetermined time
(e.g., a touch and hold)) at a location corresponding to a location on the displayed
model 400 (and a corresponding location in the patient's anatomical structure).
                                                16

Based on this input, the tablet computer 70 may display a stent 410 for planned
insertion into the patient's anatomical structure (e.g., in a coronary artery). The
tablet computer 70 may allow the user to place more than one stent 410 on the
model 400, as shown in Fig. 5, and remove the stent(s) 410, as desired.
         [056]     When initially placed on the model 400, the stent 410 may have a
predetermined size or dimension, or other characteristics (e.g., diameter, length,
material, wire thickness, wire configuration, etc.). The stent 410 may be initially
placed so that the stent 410 is centered longitudinally with respect to the location
selected by the user.
         [057]    The user may then provide additional inputs to define and/or adjust
the stent 410. For example, the tablet computer 70 may be configured to determine
when the user's finger(s) swipe or drag on the surface of the touchscreen. Based
on this input, the tablet computer 70 may move the stent 410 along the model 400.
For example, the stent 410 may move parallel to the centerline(s) of the coronary
artery or arteries (or branches connected thereto). Also, the shape of the stent 410
may conform to bends and curves in the centerline(s), as shown in Figs. 4-6, as the
stent 410 is dragged or moved along the centerline(s). The amount and direction
(e.g., upstream or downstream along the centerline(s)) of movement of the stent
410 may depend on the distance that the finger(s) travel in contacting the surface of
the touchscreen during the swipe and the direction of the swipe along the surface of
the touchscreen.
         [058]    The tablet computer 70 may also be configured to determine when
the user's fingers pinch the surface of the touchscreen. If the user's fingers move
closer together, the tablet computer 70 may shorten the stent 410 (e.g., in the
longitudinal direction and/or the direction of the centerline(s)). If the user's fingers
move away from each other, the tablet computer 70 may lengthen the stent 410
(e.g., in the longitudinal direction and/or the direction of the centerline(s)). The
amount of the change in length may depend on the distance that the finger(s)
travel along the surface of the touchscreen to form the pinch. Also, the change in
length may be continuous or may be provided in increments (e.g., approximately 4
millimeter increments or other increment). For example, if the stent 410 has a
sequential ring configuration (e.g., a series of sequential rings that are joined
together to form a tubular structure), then the change in length may be provided in
                                                17

increments that are generally equivalent to a length of one ring, and the
touchscreen may show the ring(s) being added or removed from the stent 410 to
shorten or lengthen the stent 410.
        [059]    Other features may be provided that allow the user to adjust
and manipulate the stent 410. Fig. 5 shows a screen shot of the tablet
computer 70 operating in the second operating mode to allow the user to plan a
treatment option associated with the placement of the stent 410 using the
model 400, according to another embodiment.
        [060]    When displaying the stent 410 for planned insertion into the
patient's anatomical structure (e.g., in a coronary artery), the tablet computer 70
may create one or more handles, such as a first handle 420, a second handle 430,
and/or a third handle 440. The first handle 420 may be located at or near the center
of the stent 410 along the longitudinal direction. The user may drag or move the
stent 410 along the model 400 by pressing the first handle 420 and dragging the
first handle 420 to a desired location on the model 400. Movement of the first
handle 420 results in movement of the stent 410. As the user drags the first handle
420 along the model 400, the stent 410 may also move parallel to the centerline(s)
of the coronary artery or arteries (or branches connected thereto) until the user
removes the finger(s) from the first handle 420. Also, the shape of the stent 410
may conform to bends and curves in the centerline(s) as the stent 410 is dragged or
moved along the centerline(s) with the first handle 420.
        [061]     The second and third handles 430, 440 may be located at or near
the proximal and distal ends of the stent 410, respectively. The user may adjust the
length of the stent 410 by pressing the second and/or the third handles 430, 440
and dragging the respective second and/or third handles 430, 440 along the model
400, thereby adjusting the locations of the respective proximal and distal ends of the
stent 410. Movement of the second and/or third handles 430, 440 results in
lengthening/shortening of the stent 410. For example, when the user drags the
second handle 430 along the model 400 in a proximal direction away from the third
handle 440, the stent 410 may lengthen and extend along the proximal direction.
Similarly, when the user drags the third handle 440 along the model 400 in a distal
direction away from the second handle 430, the stent 410 may lengthen and extend
along the distal direction. The new portion of the stent 410 that is added due to the
                                               18

lengthening may be formed parallel to the centerline(s) of the coronary artery or
arteries (or branches connected thereto) and may conform to bends and curves in
the centerline(s). Alternatively, the stent 410 may shorten when the user drags the
second handle 430 along the model 400 in a distal direction toward the third handle
440 or when the user drags the third handle 440 along the model 400 in a proximal
direction toward the second handle 430. As the length of the stent 410 is altered,
the placement of the first handle 420 may be automatically adjusted so that the first
handle 420 stays at or near the center of the stent 410. As a result, the handles
420, 430, 440 are user-friendly and allow the user to manipulate and adjust the stent
410 as desired.
        [062]     Various characteristics of the stent 410 may be displayed on the
touchscreen.    For example, the numerical values of the length, the proximal
diameter, and/or the distal diameter of the stent 410 may be displayed on the
touchscreen, e.g., in a stent legend. The numerical values may be dynamically
updated as the user adjusts the stent 410.
        [063]     Other characteristics of the stent 410, e.g., the material, wire
thickness, wire configuration, etc., may be selected by the user. For example, the
tablet computer 70 may provide a selection of stent models that are available for
placement into the patient and may store the characteristics of those stent models.
The user may select from the stent models, and the tablet computer 70 may
retrieve the stored characteristics corresponding to the stent model selected by the
user to determine the various characteristics of the stent 410, such as the
dimensions of the stent 410. In addition, other characteristics of the stent 410 may
be determined based on the stent model selected, such as the dimensions of the
incremental changes in length (e.g., the size of the rings in a ring configuration)
described above and/or the flexibility of the stent 410 (e.g., the ability to conform to
the bends and curves in the centerlines of the coronary arteries and branches).
        [064]     Alternatively, the various characteristics of the stent 410 and/or the
stent model may be determined automatically and recommended by the tablet
computer 70 based on various factors, such as the location of any FFR values that
are less than 0.75 and the dimensions of the vessels at those locations, locations
and dimensions of significant narrowing of the vessels, etc.
                                               19

        [065]      The tablet computer 70 may also provide other treatment options
for selection by the user, such as other types of surgery on the modeled anatomy
that may result in a change in the geometry of the modeled anatomy. For example,
the tablet computer 70 may be used to plan a coronary artery bypass grafting
procedure. Coronary artery bypass grafting may involve creating new lumens or
passageways in the model 400. After selecting this type of treatment option, the
tablet computer 70 may be configured to determine when the user's finger(s) contact
the surface of the touchscreen (e.g., for a predetermined time (e.g., a touch and
hold)) at a location corresponding to a location on the displayed model 400. Based
on this first input, the tablet computer 70 may display a bypass segment (not shown)
for planned connection to the patient's anatomical structure (e.g., in a coronary
artery), which has one end that is connected to the model 400 at the location
indicated by the first input. The tablet computer 70 may then prompt the user to
provide a second input identifying a second location for connecting the opposite end
of the bypass segment to the patient's anatomical structure. Alternatively, the tablet
computer 70 may recommend where to connect the bypass segment at one or both
ends of the bypass segment. The tablet computer 70 may allow the user to place
more than one bypass segment in the model, and remove the bypass segment(s),
as desired. The tablet computer 70 may also allow the user to provide inputs (e.g.,
similar to the inputs described above, such as swiping and pinching) to change the
location or dimension (e.g., diameter, length, etc.) of the bypass segment.
        [066]      Once the treatment option(s) have been selected by the user, the
user may touch a calculate button 340, as shown in Fig. 4. When the user selects
the calculate button 340, the tablet computer 70 recalculates the blood flow
characteristic(s).
        [067]       For example, referring back to Fig. 1, after the computer system 40
solves the equations 30 as described above, the computer system 40 may create
and transmit to the tablet computer 70 a reduced-order (e.g., zero-dimensional or
one-dimensional) model 60 for modeling various treatment options, in addition to (or
instead of) the information 50 indicating the blood flow characteristics in the
patient's current condition, as disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 2012/0041739 entitled "Method And System For Patient-Specific
Modeling Of Blood Flow." For example, the reduced-order model 60 may be a
                                               20

lumped parameter model or other simplified model of the patient's anatomy that
may be used to determine information about the coronary blood flow in the patient
without having to solve the more complex system of equations 30 described above.
The reduced-order model 60 may be created using information extracted from the
computed models 100 and 200 (e.g., the blood pressure, flow, or velocity
information determined by solving the equations 30 described above).
        [068]      After the user touches the calculate button 340, the tablet computer
70 may adjust the reduced-order model 60 based on the treatment option selected
by the user, and may solve a simplified set of equations based on the reduced
order model 60 to output information indicating one or more predicted blood flow
characteristics (e.g., FFR, blood pressure (or pressure gradient), etc.) of the
patient. The information may then be mapped or extrapolated to the three
dimensional model 2 of the patient's anatomical structure to display the effects of
the selected treatment option on the coronary blood flow in the patient's anatomy,
e.g., in a post-intervention model 500, as shown in Fig. 6.
        [069]      Since the reduced-order model 60 may be solved with a simplified
set of equations (compared to the equations 30), the reduced-order model 60
permits relatively rapid computation (e.g., compared to a full three-dimensional
model) using the tablet computer 70 and may be used to solve for flow rate and
pressure that may closely approximate the results of a full three-dimensional
computational solution. Thus, the reduced-order model 60 allows for relatively rapid
iterations to model various different treatment options.
        [070]     Alternatively, instead of creating the reduced-order model 60 and
transmitting the reduced-order model 60 to the tablet computer 70, the inputs
provided by the user to select the treatment option may be transmitted to the
computer system 40 via the tablet computer 70 (e.g., via a wired or wireless
connection). After the user touches the calculate button 340, the computer
system 40 may recalculate the information indicating the blood flow
characteristic(s), e.g., by re-solving the equations 30 using the inputs provided by
the user to select the treatment option. The computer system 40 may then
transmit to the tablet computer 70 the information indicating the blood flow
characteristic(s) based on this solution to the equations 30, and may also output
                                                21

to the tablet computer 70 images generated based on the model 12 and the
determined information, such as the post-intervention model 500 shown in Fig. 6.
        [071]      Fig. 6 shows a screen shot of the tablet computer 70 operating in
the second operating mode after determining the information indicating the blood
flow characteristic(s) of the patient based on the selected treatment option,
according to an embodiment. Specifically, the screen shot shows a split screen
provided by touchscreen, and the split screen may divide the screen into two or
more portions. In the embodiment shown in Fig. 6, two portions may be provided.
The first portion of the split screen (the left side portion shown in Fig. 6) may show
the pre-intervention model 400 (Fig. 4) with the treatment option selected by the
user (placement of the stent 410, as described above in connection with Fig. 4).
        [072]     The second portion of the split screen (the right side portion shown
in Fig. 6) may show the post-intervention model 500 that reflects the information
indicating the blood flow characteristic(s) of the patient based on selected treatment
option. The post-intervention model 500 may show any change in geometry of the
anatomical structure due to the selected treatment option. For example, in the
embodiment shown in Fig. 6, the post-intervention model 500 shows a widening
510 of the lumen where the simulated stent 410 is placed. The post-intervention
model 500 may also display the start and end points of the stent 410.
        [073]      In the embodiment shown in Fig. 6, the pre-intervention and post
intervention models 400, 500 indicate computed FFR. The split screen allows the
user to view and compare information relating to the untreated patient (e.g.,
without the stent(s)), such as the model 400, side-by-side with information relating
to the simulated treatment for the patient, such as the model 500.       For example,
the same color, shade, pattern, or other visual indicators as the model 400 may be
assigned to the respective FFR values for the model 500. Thus, the model 500
may also visually indicate the variations in FFR throughout the model 500 without
having to specify the individual values for each point in the model 500. The model
500 shown in Fig. 6 shows that, for this particular patient, under the treatment plan
selected by the user, FFR is generally uniform and approximately 1.0 in the aorta
(e.g., as indicated by the color blue), and that FFR gradually and continuously
decreases (e.g., to values ranging from 1.0 down to approximately 0.9, as
indicated by gradually changing colors from blue to cyan or a mix of blue and
                                                  22

cyan) in the main coronary arteries and the branches. In this embodiment, the
post-interventional model 500 does not include the areas 112 and 114 of sharper
decreases in FFR that are shown in the pre-interventional model 400. Thus, the
split screen provides a comparison of the pre-interventional model 400 of the
untreated patient (showing the patent's current condition) and the post
interventional model 500 for the proposed treatment to help the physician or other
user to assess the results of various treatment options.
        [074]     Either portion of the split screen may be configured to receive
inputs from the user and may respond to the inputs as described above in
connection with the first operating mode. For example, the user may touch any
location on the model(s) 400 and/or 500 to determine the numerical value of any of
the blood flow characteristic(s) and/or geometry information at that location, e.g.,
by creating one or more pins 330 for moving around the model(s) 400 and/or 500.
In an embodiment, when the user touches a location (or creates the pin 330) on
one of the models 400 or 500 to determine the numerical value of the blood flow
characteristic(s) and/or geometry information at the indicated location, the
numerical value of the blood flow characteristic(s) and/or geometry information at
the same location in the other model 400 or 500 may also be displayed for
comparison. For example, another pin 330 may be automatically created at the
same location in the other model400 or 500. As a result, the split screen may
provide mirrored pins 330 in the two displayed models such that movement of one
pin 330 in one of the models due to user input is automatically mirrored by the pin
330 in the other model and the numerical values of the blood flow characteristic(s)
and/or geometry information at the respective locations may be compared and
updated dynamically as the pins 330 move.
        [075]    Also, the user may adjust the rotation, zoom, and/or focal point for
the model(s) 400 and/or 500. In an embodiment, when the user adjusts the
rotation, zoom, and/or focal point for one of the models 400 or 500, the rotation,
zoom, and/or focal point for the other model 400 or 500 is adjusted similarly.
        [076]    The first portion of the split screen (showing the pre-intervention
model 400) may be configured to receive inputs from the user and may respond to
the inputs as described above in connection with the second operating mode. For
example, the user may select or adjust the treatment option using the pre
                                                 23

intervention model 400. After making the desired changes, the user may touch the
calculate button 340, which may cause the tablet computer 70 to modify the reduced
order model 60 based on the new treatment option selected by the user. After
solving the equations associated with the modified reduced-order model 60, the
tablet computer 70 may output a modified post-intervention model 500 that reflects
the new treatment option selected by the user. Alternatively, the tablet computer 70
may transmit the new treatment option to the computer system 40, which will re-solve
the equations 30 based on the new selected treatment option, and send the modified
post-intervention model 500 to the tablet computer 70 for displaying to the user.
        [077]     Alternatively, the split screen may provide two portions for
comparing the results of different treatment options. In such an embodiment, each
portion of the split screen may be configured to receive inputs associated with
selecting treatment options using the pre-intervention model 400 as described above
and may be able to display different post-intervention models 500 based on the
different treatment options selected.
        [078]    Accordingly, the split screen allows the user to repeatedly select
new treatment options and use the tablet computer 70 to predict and compare the
effects of various treatment options to each other and/or to information relating to
the untreated patient. The reduced-order model 60 may allow the user to analyze
and compare different treatment options more easily and quickly without having to
solve the equations 30 each time a different treatment option is selected.
        [079]     The system may be used to predict a potential benefit of
percutaneous coronary interventions on coronary artery blood flow in order to
select the optimal interventional strategy, and/or to predict a potential benefit of
coronary artery bypass grafting on coronary artery blood flow in order to select the
optimal surgical strategy.
        [080]     The systems and methods disclosed herein may be incorporated
into a portable software tool accessed by physicians and other users to provide
patient-specific blood flow information and to plan treatment options. In addition,
physicians and other users may use the portable software tool to predict the effect
of medical, interventional, and/or surgical treatments on coronary artery blood flow.
The portable software tool may be used to prevent, diagnose, manage, and/or treat
disease in other portions of the cardiovascular system including arteries of the
                                                24

neck (e.g., carotid arteries), arteries in the head (e.g., cerebral arteries), arteries in
the thorax, arteries in the abdomen (e.g., the abdominal aorta and its branches),
arteries in the arms, or arteries in the legs (e.g., the femoral and popliteal arteries).
The portable software tool may be interactive to enable physicians and other users
to develop optimal personalized therapies for patients.
        [081]    The computer system 40 for solving the equations 30 governing
blood flow may be provided as part of a web-based service or other service, e.g., a
service provided by an entity that is separate from the physician. The service
provider may, for example, operate the web-based service and may provide a web
portal or other web- based application (e.g., run on a server or other computer
system operated by the service provider) that is accessible to physicians or other
users via a network or other methods of communicating data between computer
systems. For example, the patient- specific anatomical data 10 obtained
noninvasively from the patient may be provided to the service provider, and the
service provider may use the data to produce the three- dimensional model 12 or
other models/meshes and/or any simulations or other results determined by solving
the equations 30 described above in connection with Fig. 1, such as the reduced
order model 60, the computed FFR model 100, and/or the computed blood pressure
gradient model 200. Then, the web-based service may transmit the models 60, 100,
and/or 200 to the physician's tablet computer 70 (or other portable device). The
physician may use the tablet computer 70 to interact with the models 100 or 200,
and to provide inputs, e.g., to select possible treatment options and determine blood
flow information based on the selected possible treatment options.
        [082]      It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various
modifications and variations can be made in the disclosed systems and processes
without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Other embodiments will be
apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and
practice of the disclosure disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and
examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true scope of the disclosure
being indicated by the following claims.
        [083]      Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
                                                 25

integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
integer or step or group of integers or steps.
       [084]       The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or
information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not
be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that
prior publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the
common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
relates.
                                               26

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
        1. A method for providing patient-specific blood flow information using at
least one computer system, the at least one computer system including a
touchscreen, the method comprising:
        displaying, on the touchscreen, a three-dimensional model generated based
on patient-specific data, the three-dimensional model representing at least a portion
of an anatomical structure of the patient;
        receiving a first input relating to a first location on the touchscreen indicated
by a user, the first location on the touchscreen indicating a first location in the
displayed three-dimensional model;
        displaying, on the touchscreen, at least one blood flow characteristic value at
the first location in the three-dimensional model indicated by the first input; and
        determining and dynamically updating a display of the at least one blood flow
characteristic value as a user drags a finger or a pointing object across the
touchscreen.
        2. The method of claim 1, wherein the display of the at least one blood flow
characteristic value is generated based on a location of the finger or the pointing
object relative to the displayed three-dimensional model of the anatomical structure
of the patient.
        3. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        forming a pin at the first location, the pin being movable by the user within the
three-dimensional model; and
        updating, on the touchscreen, the at least one blood flow characteristic value
in the anatomical structure as the pin is moved by the user.
        4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        updating the at least one blood flow characteristic value in the anatomical
structure at a plurality of locations in the three-dimensional model and indicating the
at least one blood flow characteristic value on the displayed three-dimensional
model using at least one of shading, patterns, or coloring.
                                                    27

        5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        rotating the displayed three-dimensional model in response to the user
swiping a surface of the touchscreen, an amount and a direction of rotation
depending on a characteristic of the swipe.
        6. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        adjusting a zoom on the displayed three-dimensional model in response to
the user pinching two of a plurality of pointing objects located at separate locations
with respect to the touchscreen, an amount of the zoom depending on a
characteristic of the pinch.
        7. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        switching between operating in a first mode for receiving the first input and at
least one subsequent input requesting the at least one blood flow characteristic
value, and operating in a second mode for receiving a request for modeling a
coronary intervention based upon an intervention input received on the
touchscreen.
        8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        receiving, while operating in a treatment modeling mode, an intervention
input relating to an intervention location on the touchscreen, the intervention input
indicating a modification of the three-dimensional model and causing the computer
system to generate a display of a coronary intervention at a location of the three
dimensional model corresponding to the intervention location on the touchscreen.
        9. The method of claim 8, wherein the intervention input includes a selection
of a stent or a bypass, and a change in a location or a size of the selected stent or
bypass.
        10. The method of claim 9, wherein the display of the coronary intervention
indicates at least one selected stent characteristic chosen from stent length,
proximal diameter, and distal diameter.
                                                28

        11. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
        providing a split screen including a first portion and a second portion, the two
portions being configured to receive different intervention inputs indicating different
modifications of the respective displayed three-dimensional models.
        12. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the first input and at
least one subsequent input from at least one pointing object controlled by the user,
where the at least one pointing object includes at least one digit of the user or a
stylus.
        13. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one blood flow characteristic
value is chosen from at least one of a pressure gradient value, a fractional flow
reserve value, a pressure value, a flow rate value, and a velocity value.
        14. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical structure of the patient
includes at least a portion of an aorta and at least a portion of a plurality of coronary
arteries emanating from the portion of the aorta.
        15. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one blood flow characteristic
value includes a fractional flow reserve value indicating a ratio between a pressure
at a location in the plurality of coronary arteries and a pressure at a location
upstream from the location in the plurality of coronary arteries.
        16. The method of claim 1, wherein the display of the at least one blood flow
characteristic value further comprises at least one of a computed fractional flow
reserve model and a computed pressure gradient model.
        17. The method of claim 1, wherein the display of the at least one blood flow
characteristic value further comprises geometry information chosen from at least
one of vessel inner diameter and thickness.
                                                 29

        18. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical structure of the patient
includes at least one of a portion of a plurality of arteries in the patient's heart, neck,
head, thorax, abdomen, arms, or legs.
        19. A system for providing patient-specific blood flow information for a
patient, the system comprising at least:
        a display device including a touchscreen and being configured to:
        (i) display a three-dimensional model generated based on patient-specific
data, the three-dimensional model representing at least a portion of an anatomical
structure of the patient; and
        (ii) display at least one blood flow characteristic value at a location in the
three-dimensional model indicated by a user input;
        a processor configured to:
        (i) receive a user input relating to a first location on the touchscreen indicated
by a user, the first location on the touchscreen indicating a first location in the
displayed three-dimensional model; and
        (ii) determine and dynamically update a display, on the touchscreen, of the at
least one blood flow characteristic value as a user drags a finger or a pointing object
across the touchscreen.
        20. A non-transitory computer readable medium for use on at least one
touchscreen computer system containing computer-executable programming
instructions for providing patient-specific blood flow information, the instructions
being executable by the at least one touchscreen computer system for:
        displaying, on the touchscreen, a three-dimensional model generated based
on patient-specific data, the three-dimensional model representing at least a portion
of an anatomical structure of the patient;
        receiving a first input relating to a first location on the touchscreen indicated
by a user, the first location on the touchscreen indicating a first location in the
displayed three-dimensional model;
        displaying, on the touchscreen, at least one blood flow characteristic value at
the first location in the three-dimensional model indicated by the first input; and
                                                    30

      determining and dynamically updating a display of the at least one blood flow
characteristic value as a user drags a finger or a pointing object across the
touchscreen.
                                              31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
