                                          ABSTRACT
         A method including receiving, at a processor, an image including a representation
of at least one license plate of a vehicle when the vehicle is proximate to a current toll
collection point, performing, by the processor, a first optical character recognition (OCR)
process on the image to determine a respective candidate license plate string of, or each
of, the at least one license plate, determining, by the processor, a candidate license plate
identification associated with the or each candidate license plate string, determining, by
the processor, an OCR confidence level for the candidate license plate identification
based on the first OCR process, and determining, by the processor, whether the OCR
confidence level exceeds a confidence level threshold, and in the event the threshold is
exceeded, identifying the license plate as the candidate license plate identification, and
alternatively, if the threshold is not exceeded performing, by the processor, a behavioural
analysis of geospatial vehicle position data related to the candidate license plate
identification, generating, by the processor, a behavioural analysis result based on the
analysis of the geospatial vehicle position data, determining, by the processor, a vehicle
attribute of the vehicle in the image, comparing, by the processor, the vehicle attribute to
a pre-determined vehicle attribute associated with the, or each candidate license plate
identification, and determining, by the processor, an overall confidence level for the
candidate license plate identification responsive to the OCR confidence level, the
behavioural analysis result and the vehicle classification comparison.

        1/12
     co
          CDN
                   C14~
            C-U
C"0
    - -- - - - - -

                                                 1
         INTELLIGENT AUTOMATIC LICENSE PLATE RECOGNITION
                  FOR ELECTRONIC TOLLING ENVIRONMENTS
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]       This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 12 October 2016, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
TECHNICL FIELD
[0001a]      This disclosure relates to complex systems and methods for intelligent
automatic license plate recognition (IALPR) in an electronic tolling environment.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       Tolls have been assessed for passage on roadways since the early 20th
century. Traditionally, vehicles were required to stop at toll booths or toll plazas where
toll booth operators or machines collected tolls manually in the form of cash or coins.
However, developments in electronic toll collection (ETC) systems have eliminated the
requirement for drivers to carry cash or coins, reduced the manual labor required to collect
the tolls, decreased the time for the toll collection process, increased vehicle throughput
at toll plazas, and, in some implementations, eliminated the need for vehicles to stop
during toll transactions. Many ETC systems use a transponder issued to and associated
with a driver or a vehicle. As the vehicle with the transponder passes through a toll
collection point (e.g., a toll booth, a toll plaza, or an open road tolling lane or gantry), the
transponder communicates its identity to a receiver at the toll collection point and a debit
transaction is initiated on an account connected to the transponder in the amount of the
assessed toll.
[0003]      Although ETC systems have both streamlined the collection of tolls for
implementing entities and improved the overall toll road experience for most drivers, ETC
systems can be subject to mistake and fraud, which can reduce the effectiveness of the
ETC system as well as increase the overall cost to implement the ETC system.

                                               2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a method including receiving, at
a processor, an image including a representation of at least one license plate of a vehicle
when the vehicle is proximate to a current toll collection point, performing, by the
processor, a first optical character recognition (OCR) process on the image to determine
a respective candidate license plate string of, or each of, the at least one license plate,
determining, by the processor, a candidate license plate identification associated with the
or each candidate license plate string, determining, by the processor, an OCR confidence
level for the candidate license plate identification based on the first OCR process, and
determining, by the processor, whether the OCR confidence level exceeds a confidence
level threshold, and in the event the threshold is exceeded, identifying the license place
as the candidate license place identification, and alternatively, if the threshold is not
exceeded, performing, by the processor, a behavioral analysis of geospatial vehicle
position data related to the candidate license plate identification, generating, by the
processor, a behavioral analysis result based on the analysis of the geospatial vehicle
position data, determining, by the processor, a vehicle attribute of the vehicle in the
image, comparing, by the processor, the vehicle attribute to a pre-determined vehicle
attribute associated with the, or each candidate license plate identification and
determining, by the processor, an overall confidence level for the candidate license plate
identification responsive to the OCR confidence level, the behavioral analysis result and
the vehicle classification comparison.
[0005]       In another aspect, the present invention provides a system including a
communication interface configured to receive a candidate license plate identification
associated with each license plate of a vehicle represented in an image of the vehicle
proximate to a current toll collection point during a current toll event and vehicle attribute
information of the vehicle in the image, and an identification confidence level associated
with the candidate license plate identification, rules-based analysis circuitry coupled to
the communication interface, the rules-based analysis circuitry configured to perform a
comparison of a vehicle attribute associated with the vehicle attribute information to a pre
determined vehicle attribute associated with the, or each candidate license plate
identification to generate comparison information, behavioral analysis circuitry coupled to
the communication interface, the behavioral analysis circuitry configured to perform a
behavioral analysis of geospatial vehicle positioning data related to the candidate license

                                                3
plate identification to generate behavioral information, and probability evaluation circuitry
configured to determine whether the identification confidence level exceeds a confidence
level threshold, and in the event the threshold is exceeded, to identify the license plate
as the candidate license plate identification, and alternatively, if the threshold is not
exceeded, to determine an overall confidence level associated with the candidate license
plate identification responsive to the candidate license plate identification, the
identification confidence level,       the comparison     information and the      behavioral
information.
[0006]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a computer-readable
medium including instructions that, when executed by circuitry elements, cause the
circuitry elements to perform a method including receiving, via a communication interface,
a candidate license plate identification associated with each license plate of a vehicle
represented in an image of the vehicle proximate to a current toll collection point during
a current toll event, vehicle attribute information of the vehicle in the image, and an
identification confidence level associated with the candidate license plate identification,
performing, by rules-based analysis circuitry coupled to the communication interface, a
comparison of a vehicle attribute associated with the vehicle attribute information to a pre
determined vehicle attribute associated with the, or each candidate license plate
identification to generate comparison information, performing, by behavioral analysis
circuitry coupled to the communication interface, a behavioral analysis process on the
candidate license plate identification to generate behavioral information, and determining,
by probability evaluation circuitry coupled to the behavioral analysis circuitry, whether the
identification confidence level exceeds a confidence level threshold, and in the event the
threshold is exceeded, identifying the license plate as the candidate license plate
identification, and alternatively, if the threshold is not exceeded, determining an overall
confidence level associated with the candidate license plate identification responsive to
the candidate license plate identification, the identification confidence level, the
comparison information, and the behavioral information.

                                            4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007]      Figure 1 shows an example electronic tolling environment implementing a
portion of an IALPR system.
[0008]      Figure 2 shows an example block diagram of an IALPR system.
[0009]      Figure 3 shows an example application of an IALPR process.
[0010]      Figure 4 shows an example system implementation for the IALPR system.
[0011]      Figure 5 shows an example flow diagram of logic that the system may
implement.
[0012]      Figure 6 shows another flow diagram of logic that the system may implement.
[0013]      Figure 7 shows another flow diagram of logic that the system may implement.
[0014]      Figure 8 shows another flow diagram of logic that the system may implement.
[0015]      Figure 9 shows another flow diagram of logic that the system may implement.
[0016]      Figure 10 shows another flow diagram of logic that the system may implement.
[0017]      Figure 11 shows another flow diagram of logic that the system may implement.
[0018]      Figure 12 shows an example graphical user interface as may be provided by
the system of Figure 2.

                                               5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0019]       In certain implementations, a transponder-based ETC system is augmented
with or replaced by an Automatic License Plate Recognition (ALPR) system. An ALPR
system captures license plate information for vehicles that pass through toll collection
points. Figure 1 illustrates an example electronic tolling environment 100 implementing
a portion of an Intelligent Automatic License Plate Recognition (IALPR) system. In this
implementation, a roadway 102 includes a toll collection point 104, here shown as an
open road tolling gantry wherein a vehicle 106, including a license plate (such as front
license plate 107) can pass through the toll collection point 104 without stopping, and in
some instances, at full or near-full highway speeds. A support structure 108 supports
cameras 110, 112, 114, 116.          The support structure 108 may also support other
equipment, such as RFID readers 118, vehicle classification loops 117, or vehicle
classification lasers 119, lights, signage, or other equipment or devices for the electronic
tolling environment 100. The vehicle classification loops 117 or vehicle classification
lasers 119 may measure an approximate volume or size of a vehicle passing through the
toll collection point 104. For example, the vehicle classification loops 117 may count a
number of axels of a vehicle 106 passing through the toll collection point 104. Similarly,
a vehicle classification laser 119 may provide a curtain of laser light that measures an
approximate size of the vehicle 106 passing through the toll collection point 104. A toll
point controller 120 or another device may then map the sensed size to a particular
vehicle classification (e.g., passenger vehicle, motorcycle, semi-truck).
[0020]       The electronic tolling environment 100 may include one or more cameras for
each lane of traffic. The cameras may be pointed in one or more directions to capture
images of vehicles 106 that are proximate to the toll collection point 104 (e.g.,
approaching the toll collection point 104, presently at the toll collection point 104, or
having passed through the toll collection point 104). For example, as is shown in Figure
1, cameras 110 and 114 are pointed in a direction opposite the flow of traffic to capture
images of the front of approaching vehicles 106 to capture images of front license plates
107. Likewise, cameras 112 and 116 are pointed in the direction of the flow of traffic to
capture images of the rear of vehicles 106 passing through the toll collection point 104 to
capture images of rear license plates. The cameras 110, 112, 114, and 116 and other
equipment (e.g., RFID readers 118 and vehicle classification lasers 119) may be
connected to toll point controller 120 to store or process the captured images or other

                                                  6
data. The toll point controller 120 may be connected via a network connection (see FIG.
4) to other servers or systems to implement various other aspects of the IALPR solution.
The toll point controller 120 and other equipment located at the toll collection point 104
forms a road side system. In some examples, a vehicle is proximate to the toll collection
point 104 if it is within a line of sight of the cameras 110, 112, 114, and 116. The line of
sight may include vehicles that are 50 feet or 100 feet of the toll collection point 104 along
the roadway 102, though other distances may be suitable in various application settings.
[0021]     A technical challenge exists in that many factors can negatively impact the
process of reading license plates on vehicles (e.g., reading the license plate string in an
image of a vehicle 106 passing through the toll collection point 104), including
environmental conditions (e.g., rain, snow, fog, and sunlight glare), quality of the license
plate, cleanliness of the license plate (e.g., which may be subject to dirt build-up or salt
build-up on the license plates), time of day, speed of the vehicle 106, speed of reading,
or other factors. Due to these and other factors, incorrect license plate identifications
may be made during the processing of the images. Incorrect license plate identification
can lead to added expense for the entity implementing the electronic tolling solution as
the entity will likely have to correct the issue when a incorrectly identified user contests
the assessed toll (e.g., after receiving a notice in the mail or electronically that they have
been assessed a toll, possibly including fines).        Such correction involves the use of
additional personnel, equipment, and time to review images and other data, communicate
with the user, update incorrect data or transactions, and issue an additional updated toll
assessment to a properly identified user. Further, incorrect license plate identification
can be frustrating and sometimes costly for incorrectly identified users of the roadway.
Accordingly, one goal is reduce the instances of incorrect license plate identification.
[0022]     Another technical challenge met by the IALPR system is reducing human
review of images to determine an identification of a license plate in an image. Human
review is costly, requiring a staff of reviewers and associated equipment. Typically, the
higher the volume of images to review, the more costly the human review aspect can be.
Further, human review, although often more accurate than present ALPR systems, is still
prone to mistakes due to inaccuracies caused by perceptual or typographical errors.

                                                7
Accordingly, one technical advantage is the reduction of reliance on the human review
process.
[0023]      One technical solution includes multiple layers of license plate recognition
processes and probability evaluation circuitry to evaluate and analyze the various outputs
from those processes to determine and identify a license plate in the image. In another
implementation, behavior analysis circuitry may determine aspects relating to the
behavior (e.g., in terms of tolling activities) of a vehicle associated with a license plate.
The behavior analysis circuitry may also provide information to the probability evaluation
circuitry, which may improve the overall confidence level of a license plate identification.
[0024]      Figure 2 shows an example block diagram of the IALPR system 200. The
system 200 may include a camera 202 (e.g., such as cameras 110, 112, 114, and 116)
to capture images of vehicles and their license plates as they pass through toll collection
points. The camera 202 is connected to toll point controller 204, which may implement
capturing, storage, or pre-processing of the images from the camera 202. The toll point
controller 204 may be physically located near the toll collection point 104, for example, in
a building or structure located adjacent to or near the roadway 102. Alternatively, the toll
point controller 204 may be located remotely from the camera 202 and may communicate
with the camera 202 over a communication link, e.g., a network connection. Images may
be captured and saved continuously in time. Alternatively, images may be captured and
saved upon the occurrence of a toll event. For example, the toll point controller 204 may
recognize the presence of a vehicle in an image frame by monitoring a video feed
received form the camera 202 for vehicles.           Alternatively, radar or other presence
detection devices may be employed to detect an vehicle entering the tolling lanes, which
can in turn trigger the camera 202 to capture images of the vehicle.
[0025]      The toll point controller 204 may save images from the camera 202 in an image
database 206, and may include toll event data and/or other metadata associated with the
captured image. For example, information regarding location, date, time, speed, vehicle
class, weather, camera settings, or other metadata can be stored in the image database
206. The image database 206 may be located at the toll point controller 204, or may be
centrally located and accessed via a network connection (see, e.g., database 448 in FIG.
4), such that captured images are stored within a centralized data warehouse.            For
example, a centralized data warehouse may serve multiple or all toll collection points

                                                 8
within a roadway system (e.g., for a state or region). The stored image and its associated
data may be later transferred to other systems or circuitry for further processing.
Alternatively, those other systems may be granted access to the image and its associated
data directly from the image database 206.
 [0026]      After an image is captured, the image can be processed to determine the
 identification of the license plate of the vehicle in the image. Primary analysis circuitry
208 may be employed to provide a first analysis of the image. In one implementation, the
 primary analysis circuitry 208 includes first optical character recognition (OCR) circuitry
210. The first OCR circuitry 210 may receive the image including a representation of the
 license plate of the vehicle when the vehicle is proximate to the toll collection point, for
example, via a communication interface. The first OCR circuitry 210 may receive the
 image from the toll point controller 204 or from the image database 206.
 [0027]       The first OCR circuitry 210 performs an OCR process on the image of the
 license plate to determine a candidate license plate string, as well as a state or other
jurisdiction identification of the license plate. The first OCR circuitry 210 identifies the
 location of the license plate within the image of the vehicle and recognizes characters
within the license plate to determine the candidate license plate string. One example
OCR technique includes a matrix matching algorithm (also called pattern matching,
 pattern recognition, or image correlation), in which images are compared to stored images
of glyphs, which are specific shapes, designs, or representations of a character (e.g., a
 letter, number, or symbol). Another example OCR technique includes a feature extraction
algorithm where individual characters within the image are separated into features, such
as lines, closed loops, line directions, and line intersections. These extracted features
are then compared with abstract vector-like representations of characters to determine
which character matches the character in the image.
 [0028]       Particular OCR techniques may be application-oriented             or otherwise
customized, for example, to search for particular symbols on license plates (e.g., to
 identify a state or jurisdiction) and to identify letters and numbers in the form of specific
fonts used by the state or jurisdiction. For example, most states or jurisdictions will issue
 license plates with one of only a small selection of similar fonts or typefaces. Example
common fonts or typefaces include DIN 1451, Eurostile, Humanist sans, or combinations
thereof, with some jurisdictions implementing variations on those typefaces. Other similar

                                                 9
typefaces may be used. With this limited set of typefaces used on license plates, OCR
circuitry may be configured to search specifically for those typefaces, thereby limiting the
number of possible comparisons to be performed or possible candidate characters for
each character in an image.
[0029]      Similarly, in various implementations, second OCR circuitry 212 may be
included as part of the primary analysis circuitry 208. The second OCR circuitry 212 may
also perform an OCR process on the image of the license plate to determine a candidate
license plate string, as well as a state or jurisdiction identification of the license plate. The
second OCR circuitry 212 may implement a different OCR process, technique, or
algorithm than the first OCR circuitry 210 in order to diversify the methods used to develop
candidate license plate strings. For example, the first OCR circuitry 210 may implement
a matrix matching technique while the second OCR circuitry 212 may implement a feature
extraction technique. In another approach, the first OCR circuitry 210 may implement a
first OCR algorithm provided by a first provider, while the second OCR circuitry 212 may
implement a different second OCR algorithm provided by a second provider different from
the first provider.     If the two different OCR processes implemented by the first OCR
circuitry 210 and the second OCR circuitry 212 return a same resulting license plate string
or license plate identification, then a confidence in the identity of the license plate may be
increased.
[0030]      When a candidate license plate string is determined, system circuitry, such as
the first OCR circuitry 210 or the second OCR circuitry 212, may cross-reference the
candidate license plate string to a license plate database to correlate the license plate
string to a license plate identification. In certain implementations, the license plate string
and the license plate identification are the same (e.g., a license plate string of "ABC123"
for the state of Illinois may simply be identified as Illinois license plate ABC123). In other
approaches, the identification may include a state, jurisdiction, plate type, or other
characteristic in addition to or instead of the license plate string. Accordingly, the license
plate identification may be a number or identification that does not include the license
plate string (e.g., the name or driver's license number of the owner, the VIN number of
the vehicle, or some other identifier).
[0031]      The first OCR circuitry 210 and the second OCR circuitry 212 can also
determine an OCR confidence level representing the level of confidence or probability at

                                              10
which the first and second OCR circuitry 210, 212 has determined the license plate string,
the license plate identification, or both. In a similar manner, first OCR circuitry 210 and
the second OCR circuitry 212 can also determine an OCR confidence level for each
determined character of a license plate string. That is to say, the first OCR circuitry 210
or the second OCR circuitry 212 may determine a confidence level or probability that it
has properly recognized an individual character in the license plate string. The OCR
confidence level may be affected by many different factors, including environmental
factors that impact the quality of the image of the license plate at the toll collection point,
quality of the license plate, the cleanliness of the license plate, or other obstructions or
image quality factors.
[0032]      The primary analysis circuitry 208 may also include derivative candidate
license plate circuitry 215. The derivative candidate license plate circuitry 215 can receive
the candidate licese plate strings or identirications and the OCR confidence levels for
each determined license plate string or each individual character of a license plate string
from the first and second OCR circuitry 210, 212. The derivative candidate license plate
circuitry 215 can replace characters having lower confidence levels, for example,
character confidence levels below a character confidence level threshold, with alternative
characters leading to more derivative candidate license plates.         Choosing alternative
characters may follow rules. For example, if the first or second OCR circuitry determines
a license plate jurisdiction, there is the possibility that the license plate would follow a
determined mask. Therefore, given the position of the character to be replaced within the
candidate license plate string, the derivative candidate license plate circuitry 215 may
know if the character is alphabetic or numeric and can create additional deriviative
candidate license plates taking into account the correct character type for the character
to be replaced. In another approach, the derivative candidate license plate circuitry 215
may determine similar characters for character to be replaced. For example, the letter
"0" can be frequently mistaken as the number "0", or vice versa, while the letter "G" can
be frequently mistaken as the letter "0" or the number "8". These frequent misread
characters can be stored within a database that is accessed by the derivative candidate
license plate circuitry 215.    The derivative candidate license plate circuitry 215 can
determine replacement characters that are in the category of frequent misread characters
and generate derivative candidate license plates resulting from replacements of

                                                11
characters in the category of frequent misread characters. These resulting derivative
candidate license plates have a higher probability of being correct.
[0033]       The primary analysis circuitry 208 may include, in some implementations,
fingerprinting circuitry 214. The fingerprinting circuitry 214 may determine a fingerprint of
the license plate in the image and compare that fingerprint to any number of previously
defined fingerprints stored in a fingerprint database 216. A fingerprint may be a type of
visual signature for the license plate, including specific visual characteristics of the license
plate, which may be saved for future reference and comparison. The fingerprint can also
include parts of the vehicle surrounding the license plate, such as the bumper or grille of
the vehicle, which is additional useful information that can lead to more accurate matching
results. Different images of a single license plate may produce similar fingerprints such
that the fingerprinting circuitry 214 can determine the identification of a license plate due
to its similarity to a stored fingerprint of that same license plate.       For example, the
fingerprint database 216 may include a fingerprint having similar interest points with
similar characteristics and locations to that of the fingerprint generated from the image of
the license plate on the vehicle at the toll collection point. These similar fingerprints allow
the fingerprinting circuitry 214 to make a determination that the two fingerprints match.
[0034]       The stored fingerprint has a license plate identification associated therewith
such that the fingerprinting circuitry 214 can then cross-reference the determined stored
fingerprint with the license plate identification to determine the license plate identification.
As with the first and second OCR circuitry 210, 212, the fingerprinting circuitry 214 can
also determine a fingerprint confidence level representing the level of confidence or
probability which the fingerprinting circuitry 214 has determined the proper license plate
identification. The fingerprint confidence level may be affected by many factors, including
environmental factors that impact the quality of the image of the license plate at the toll
collection point or the quality of the image that was used to generate a previous fingerprint
stored within the fingerprint database 216. The fingerprinting circuitry 214 may store
updated fingerprints in the fingerprint database 216 at any time, e.g., after making an
identification that exceeds a threshold confidence level.
[0035]       In another approach, the fingerprinting circuitry 214 receives the candidate
license plate strings from the first and second OCR circuitry 210 and 212 and the
derivative candidate license plate strings from the derivative candidate license plate

                                               12
circuitry 215. The fingerprinting circuitry 214 then queries the fingerprint database 216 to
receive stored fingerprints for each of the candidate and derivative candidate license plate
strings. The fingerprinting circuitry 214 then compares the fingerprint of the license plate
in the image with the retrieved fingerprints for the candidate and derivative candidate
license plate strings.     Comparing fingerprints requires significant processing power.
Thus, by the fingerprinting circuitry 214 limiting its queries to the candidate and derivative
candidate license plate strings, the required processing is reduced and the chances to
determine a match by leveraging both systems in combination is increased.               In one
embodiment, the fingerprinting circuitry 214 may perform a full scan of stored fingerprints
within the fingerprint database 216 if the fingerprinting circuitry does not receive candidate
or derivative candidate license plates.
[0036]       In another implementation, the system 200 includes secondary analysis
circuitry 218. The secondary analysis circuitry 218 may include rules-based analysis
circuitry 219 and behavior analysis circuitry 220, which in turn may include trip analysis
circuitry 222, historical behavior analysis circuitry 224, or both. The secondary analysis
circuitry 218 may also include vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226. The secondary
analysis circuitry 218 may also include one or more communication interfaces (e.g.,
communication interface 436 in FIG. 4) to receive data from other circuitry elements, for
example, from the toll point controller 204, the first OCR circuitry 210, the second OCR
circuitry 212, the fingerprinting circuitry 214, or other circuitry elements.              The
communication      interface may be configured to receive candidate license plate
identifications associated with images of vehicles proximate to a current toll collection
point during or after a toll event.       The communication interface may also receive
confidence levels associated with the candidate license plate identifications. The
secondary analysis circuitry 218 may include circuitry elements that implement secondary
analysis of license plate identifications provided by the primary analysis circuitry 208.
This secondary analysis may serve to increase or decrease an overall confidence level
associated with a candidate license plate identification for an image or set of images of a
vehicle proximate to a toll collection point.
[0037]       The secondary analysis may also help identify which one of a set of candidate
license plate identifications is most likely the correct license plate identification.      For
example, the different circuitry elements 210, 212, and 214 within the primary analysis
circuitry 208 may provide different candidate license plate identifications from each other.

                                                13
Further, the various circuitry elements 210, 212, and 214 may also each provided
derivative candidate license plate identifications and the derivative candidate license
plate circuitry 215 may also provide derivative candidate license plate identifications. The
secondary analysis circuitry 218 may help determine which one of the multiple license
plate identifications is the proper identification based on behavioral analysis and vehicle
attribute analysis, discussed below. This may be achieved by increasing or decreasing
the overall confidence levels (e.g., probabilities) associated with each candidate license
plate identification through the secondary analysis process.
[0038]      The rules-based analysis circuitry 219 may analyze or evaluate one or more
candidate or derivative candidate license plate strings or identifications provided by the
primary analysis circuitry 208 according to one or more analysis rules, for example as
may be stored within memory 406 (see Figure 4). The rules-based analysis circuitry may
evaluate and compare the candidate and derivative candidate license plate strings
determined for the front and the rear license plates of a vehicle. Together with vehicle
class information (e.g., received from vehicle classification loop 117 or vehicle
classification laser 119), the rules-based analysis circuitry 219 can evaluate the license
plates to determine if one is incorrect or if both match. For example, light vehicles (e.g.,
passenger vehicles, motorcycles, or light trucks) should have the same front and rear
license plates. However, heavy trucks may have a front license plate for the tractor that
is different from the rear license plate for the trailer. If the system 200 determines that
the vehicle is a light vehicle class, but the candidate license plate strings or identifications
are different for the front and the rear, the rules-based analysis circuitry 219 will determine
that one or both candidate license plate strings are wrong.         Further, the rules-based
analysis circuitry 219 may analyze candidate and derivative candidate license plate
strings to determine matching pairs of license plate strings. As a result, the rules-based
analysis circuitry 219 may generate a determined license plate string or identification and
an associated confidence level.
[0039]      The behavior analysis circuitry 220 may be coupled to a communication
interface (e.g., communication interface 436 of FIG. 4) and may be configured to perform
a behavioral analysis of geospatial vehicle positioning on a received candidate license
plate identification.    For example, the behavior analysis circuitry 220 may examine
historical toll data within an historical toll database 228 to determine a behavior of the
vehicle within a trip context (e.g., looking at neighboring or related toll events that would

                                                14
indicate a particular vehicle with a candidate license plate identification is on a trip that
would include the present toll collection point). The behavior analysis circuitry 220 may
also determine vehicle behavior patterns (e.g., to determine a likelihood that a vehicle
with a candidate license plate would pass the present toll collection point during a
particular day or time, for example, during a typical commute to or from work). The
behavior analysis circuitry 220 may then generate behavioral information, which may
include historical data related to the candidate license plate identification, an increased
or decreased probability or confidence level associated with a candidate license plate
identification, or an indication that a condition has been met. An indication that a condition
has been met may include an indication that a related toll event occurred for a candidate
license plate identification at a neighboring or sequential toll collection point within a
certain time range, or that a behavior pattern exists for the candidate license plate
identification that corresponds with a current toll event.
[0040]       The behavior analysis circuitry 220 may include trip analysis circuitry 222. In
one approach, the trip analysis circuitry 222 may analyze a candidate license plate
identification for a current toll event in view of related toll events. The related toll events
may be events, for instance, that occur near to the current toll event or within a time frame
(e.g., within an hour, within the same day or 24-hour span, within a time frame
corresponding related to an average travel time between two toll collection points, or other
time frames) before or after the current toll event. For example, the trip analysis circuitry
222 may be configured to search for one or multiple related toll events occurring at a
related toll collection point(s) with respect to the current toll collection point. The related
toll event(s) may have associated therewith a license plate identification matching the
candidate license plate identification. For example, a related toll collection point may be
an adjacent, neighboring, sequential, or other toll collection point along a particular
roadway or route, along a connecting roadway or route (e.g., a roadway that merges or
feeds into the current roadway of the current toll collection point), or along a different
roadway or route. A different roadway or route may include a roadway that does not
directly feed into the current roadway, but is within a determined driving distance
therefrom or is accessible to/from the current roadway, for example, via state or local
roads or other non-toll roads. A related toll event is a toll event occurring before or after
the current toll event at the other toll collection point. A related toll event may occur after
the current toll event, for example, if the analysis of the toll event occurs some-time after

                                                15
the occurrence of the current toll event, such that other toll events may have occurred in
the interim. These later-in-time related toll events may also be considered in the analysis
of a trip for the vehicle of the candidate license plate identification.
[0041]       The trip analysis circuitry 222 may also be configured to determine a current
travel time between the related toll event and the current toll event, which may be
determined from a time difference between the occurrence of the current toll event and
the occurrence of the related toll event. The trip analysis circuitry 222 may also be
configured to determine an average travel time between the current toll collection point
and the related toll collection point. This average travel time may be determined based
on historical travel times, and may take into account daily traffic patterns (e.g., increasing
average travel time during rush hour). Further, the determination of the average travel
time may take into account present traffic conditions that may impact travel time, for
example, as may be determined in real-time using known techniques. The trip analysis
circuitry 222 may take a vehicle class (e.g., truck or passenger vehicle) into account as
well when determining average travel time (e.g., a truck may take longer to travel between
two toll collection points than a passenger vehicle). Further, the trip analysis circuitry may
take into account any known historical tendencies associated with the vehicle (e.g., the
driver of the vehicle) associated with the license plate identification in determining
average travel time (e.g., that the vehicle associated with the license plate identification
typically completes a travel time between two toll collection points an average of 5%
quicker than the average travel time).
[0042]       In one implementation, the trip analysis circuitry 222 is configured to determine
a degree of difference between the current travel time and the average travel time. The
direction of travel of the vehicle in the image of the current toll event may be considered,
as well. With this degree of difference, the trip analysis circuitry 222 can determine
whether it is less or more likely that two toll collection events associated with a candidate
license plate identification are indeed linked as part of a trip by a vehicle. For example, if
two adjacent toll collection points each register toll events with the same candidate license
plate identification, and the time between the two toll events is commensurate with the
average travel time therebetween, then there is an increased likelihood that it is the same
vehicle, and therefore that the candidate license plate identification, as identified in two
(or more) separate images at two different toll collection points, is indeed the correct
license plate identification.     The trip analysis circuitry 222 may generate behavioral

                                               16
information, which may include an increased or decreased probability or confidence level
associated with a candidate license plate or an indication that a condition has been met
(e.g., that the current toll event occurred within a time range from a related toll event at a
different toll collection point). Variations are possible.
[0043]       In another implementation, the behavior analysis circuitry 220 includes
historical behavior analysis circuitry 224. The historical behavior analysis circuitry 224
may be configured to analyze a candidate license plate identification for a current toll
event in view of historical toll events. The historical toll events (e.g., occurring over weeks,
months, or years) may provide a daily, weekly, or monthly pattern of toll transactions that
correlate to the likely activities of a particular vehicle associated with a license plate
identification. For example, a pattern may be determined that a vehicle with a license
plate identification travels along a particular route including one or more particular toll
collection points every weekday morning during typical commuting times (e.g., between
6:00 AM and 10:00 AM). Accordingly, with this toll pattern established, if a candidate
license plate identification is determined for a toll event at a certain toll event time at a
certain toll collection point, and that candidate license plate identification matches a
license plate identification with a corresponding toll pattern (e.g., a daily toll time range)
into which the current toll event time and location fits, then there may be an increased
likelihood that the candidate license plate identification is indeed the correct license plate
identification for that toll event.
[0044]       To perform a historical vehicle behavioral analysis, in one implementation, the
historical behavior analysis circuitry 224 is configured to search for historical toll events
occurring at the current toll collection point with a license plate identification matching the
candidate license plate identification.      The historical toll events may be stored and
accessed within a historical toll database 228. The historical behavior analysis circuitry
224 may also determine a historical daily toll event pattern including a daily toll time range
for the license plate identification responsive to the plurality of historical toll events. The
daily toll event pattern may be predetermined or may be determined in real time when a
toll event occurs for a candidate license plate identification. The daily toll time range may
include multiple ranges and may take direction of travel into account. For example, it may
be determined that a vehicle associated with a license plate identification passes through
a toll collection point headed in one direction during a morning commute, and passes
through the same or a different toll collection point in a different direction during an

                                              17
evening commute. The daily toll event pattern may be for every day of the week, for only
certain days of a week (e.g., Monday-Friday, every other Tuesday and Thursday only,
weekends only, every workday except for Friday, or any other variation), or may be for
only certain days or weeks of a month of a year (e.g., the     2 nd of every month, the third
Tuesday of a month, or twice a week from October through April). For example, the
historical behavior analysis circuitry 224 may determine a pattern for a license plate
identification of a trick wherein the truck passes through a certain toll collection point in
one direction at least once a week or once a month (e.g., on a weekly or monthly route),
but does not know exactly which day that may occur. Many pattern variations are possible
and are not necessarily limited to daily patterns. The historical behavior analysis circuitry
224 may take a vehicle class (e.g., truck or passenger vehicle) into account as well when
determining a toll pattern.
[0045]       The historical behavior analysis circuitry 224 may be configured to determine
whether the current toll event occurred within the daily (or weekly or monthly) toll time
range associated with a license plate identification matching the candidate license plate
identification. If so, then there may be an increased likelihood that the candidate license
plate identification is indeed the correct license plate identification for the current toll
event.    The historical behavior analysis circuitry 224 may then generate behavioral
information, which may include historical data related to the candidate license plate, an
increased or decreased probability or confidence level associated with a candidate
license plate, or an indication that a condition has been met (e.g., that the current toll
event occurred within a daily toll time range associated with a license plate identification
matching the candidate license plate identification).
[0046]       In another implementation, the secondary analysis circuitry 218 includes
vehicle attribute      analysis  circuitry 226.     The    communication     interface   (e.g.,
communication interface 436 of FIG. 4) may be configured to receive a physical vehicle
attribute of a vehicle in an image, for example, from toll point controller 204 or another
circuitry element. Alternatively, the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 receives the
image (e.g., via the communication interface) and determines a physical vehicle attribute
of the vehicle in the image. Examples of physical vehicle attributes include vehicle class
(e.g., passenger vehicle, truck, or bus), vehicle color, number of axles, size, vehicle make,
or vehicle model, though other physical vehicle attributes may be possible. Physical

                                                18
vehicle attributes may be extracted from the image via known techniques for categorizing
items within an image.
[0047]       The vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may determine whether the physical
vehicle attribute extracted from the image matches a pre-determined vehicle attribute
associated with a license plate identification matching the candidate license plate
identification. For example, the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may receive the
candidate license plate identification from circuitry elements of the primary analysis
circuitry 208. The vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may then determine a license
plate identification matching the candidate license plate identification within a connected
vehicle attribute database 230. The vehicle attribute database 230 may include various
pre-determined physical vehicle attribute data associated with different license plate
identifications.    The stored pre-determined physical vehicle attribute data may be
extracted from vehicle registration information (e.g., listing vehicle class, color, make,
model, year, color, and other attributes), which may be sourced from account registration
(e.g., registration for an account of the ETC system) or from department of motor vehicles
information.    The stored pre-determined physical vehicle attribute data may also be
generated over time from previous historical toll events where physical vehicle attributes
are extracted during the previous toll events and stored within the vehicle attribute
database 230 associated with a license plate identification. The vehicle attribute analysis
circuitry 226 may then cross-reference the physical vehicle attributes extracted from the
image against the pre-determined physical vehicle attributes associated with the license
plate identification matching the candidate license plate identification. If there is a match,
then there may be an increased likelihood that the candidate license plate identification
is the correct license plate identification for the particular toll event.
[0048]       The vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may also determine a physical
vehicle attribute matching confidence level indicating the level of confidence or probability
that the physical vehicle attributes are correctly extracted and identified, or the degree to
which the physical attributes match (e.g., the vehicle class and make may match, but the
color may be off slightly, for example, if a navy blue color was extracted from the image,
but the registered color is black). Many matching factors may be taken into account in
determining the physical vehicle attribute matching confidence level. The vehicle attribute
analysis circuitry 226 may generate and output attribute matching information, which may
include particular matching or mismatching physical attributes between a candidate

                                                19
license plate identification and a corresponding stored license plate identification, as well
as levels of confidence for each particular attribute. The attribute matching information
may also include an increased or decreased probability or confidence level associated
with a candidate license plate or an indication that a condition has been met (e.g., that all
or some of the extracted physical vehicle attributes match stored pre-determined physical
vehicle attributes). The vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may update or maintain
the pre-determined physical vehicle attribute data within the vehicle attribute database
230 over time, for example, to account for incorrect previously stored data. For example,
if the vehicle was incorrectly registered as blue, but the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry
226 repeatedly determines that the vehicle associated with that license plate identification
is white, the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may update the physical vehicle
database with the corrected information, accordingly.
[0049]       Probability evaluation circuitry 232 receives data from some or all of the
various circuitry elements discussed above (e.g., the first OCR circuitry 210, the second
OCR circuitry 212, the fingerprinting circuitry 214, the behavior analysis circuitry 220, or
the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226).       From the received data, the probability
evaluation circuitry 232 may then determine a correct license plate identification for the
toll event and determine an overall confidence level associated with that correct license
plate identification.   By analyzing all of the provided data, the probability evaluation
circuitry 232 can provided a higher degree of certainty that a particular candidate license
plate identification is the correct (or incorrect) license plate identification for a toll event.
As a result, the system 200 reduces or eliminates the need for human review and reduces
the likelihood that an incorrect license plate identification will be made, thereby reducing
costs associated with incorrectly assessing tolls on incorrectly identified license plates.
[0050]       The probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive the candidate license plate
identifications that each circuitry element may have determined for a given image. Also,
the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive a confidence level representing the
probability that each provided candidate license plate identification is the correct license
plate identification for an image of a vehicle during a toll event.          For example, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive a first OCR confidence level from the first
OCR circuitry 210, a second OCR confidence level from the second OCR circuitry 212,
and a fingerprint confidence level from the fingerprinting circuitry 214.        Moreover, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive data for multiple images corresponding to

                                                20
one vehicle passing through the toll collection point during a toll event. For example, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive data from some or all of the circuitry
elements (e.g., 210, 212, 214) corresponding to one or multiple images of the front license
plate of the vehicle as well as one or multiple images of the rear license plate of the
vehicle passing through the toll collection point during the toll event.
[0051]       In one implementation, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may determine
an intermediate confidence level for the candidate license plate identification received
from one or more circuitry elements of the primary analysis circuitry 208. For example,
the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive and review candidate license plate
identifications from the first OCR circuitry 210, the second OCR circuitry 212, or the
fingerprinting circuitry 214 corresponding to an image or set of images associated with a
vehicle proximate to a toll collection point. Further, the probability evaluation circuitry 232
may receive the first OCR confidence level from the first OCR circuitry 210, second OCR
confidence level from the second OCR circuitry 212, or fingerprint confidence level from
the fingerprinting circuitry 214. Further, if the vehicle includes both front and rear plates
and is determined to be a light vehicle class, and the generated candidate license plate
strings match for readings of the front and rear license plates, the rules-based analysis
circuitry 219 may provide an increased confidence level for the matching pair of candidate
license plate strings.       The probability evaluation circuitry 232 may determine the
intermediate confidence level based on this received data.
[0052]       In one implementation, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 determines if the
intermediate confidence level exceeds an intermediate confidence level threshold. If so,
then the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may decide to forgo secondary analysis by
the secondary analysis circuitry 218 and instead determine that the candidate license
plate identification is the correct license plate identification for the toll event. For example,
in various implementations, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may control whether
the secondary analysis circuitry 218 performs a secondary analysis of any candidate
license plate identification(s) generated by the primary analysis circuitry 208, and may
determine that secondary analysis is not to be performed on the candidate license plate
identification. The probability evaluation circuitry 232 may also determine the overall
confidence level for the candidate license plate identification as being equal to or similar
to the intermediate confidence level. Moreover, the probability evaluation circuitry 232
may receive notification from the rules-based analysis circuitry 219 indicating that the

                                                21
candidate license plate strings match for the front and rear plates of a vehicle. In such
an instance, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may also decide to forgo secondary
analysis by the secondary analysis circuitry 218. The probability evaluation circuitry 232
may send the candidate license plate identification (e.g., as the correct license plate
identification for a toll event) to transaction processing circuitry 234 to effect billing and
collection of the assessed tolls against any accounts or individuals associated with the
candidate license plate identification. The transaction processing circuitry 234 may effect
billing and collection in accordance with known or typical methods.
[0053]       For example, if the first OCR circuitry 210, the second OCR circuitry 212, or
the fingerprinting circuitry 214 all determine the same candidate license plate
identification, then the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may determine a high
intermediate confidence level associated with the candidate license plate identification.
Further, if some or all the first OCR circuitry 210, the second OCR circuitry 212, or the
fingerprinting circuitry 214 individually provide high levels of confidence, then the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may determine a high intermediate confidence level
associated with the candidate license plate identification. Moreover, if the rules-based
analysis circuitry 219 indicates that the front and rear candidate license plate strings
match, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may determine a high intermediate
confidence level associated with the candidate license plate identification.         In various
embodiments, a confidence level of 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, or another confidence level value
on a scale from 0.0 to 1.0 may represent a high confidence level or a high intermediate
confidence level.
[0054]       In one example, if one circuitry element of the primary analysis circuitry 208
provides a first candidate license plate identification, while a different circuitry element
provides a different second candidate license plate identification, the probability
evaluation circuitry 232 may analyze potential derivative candidate license plate
identifications for the toll event from that different circuitry element to see if any of the
derivative candidate license plate identifications match the first candidate license plate
identification.   If a match is determined, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may
determine that the first candidate license plate identification is the correct license plate
identification for the toll event and may determine the overall confidence level or
intermediate confidence level associated with the first candidate license plate
identification is still relatively high. The probability evaluation circuitry 232 may also take

                                               22
into account the various confidence levels associated with the first candidate license plate
identification, the second candidate license plate identification, and the derivative
candidate license plate identifications when making this determination. Alternatively, in
the event of a mismatch between any results from the various circuitry elements of the
primary analysis circuitry 208, the probability evaluation circuitry may lower the
intermediate confidence level, for example, to a level below the intermediate confidence
level threshold, or may automatically invoke secondary analysis by the secondary
analysis circuitry 218.
[0055]       In various implementations, if the intermediate confidence level does not
exceed the intermediate confidence level threshold, the probability evaluation circuitry
232 may still utilize the services of or information provided by one or more circuitry
elements of the secondary analysis circuitry 218. Alternatively, in some implementations,
the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may always or often utilize the services of or
information provided by one or more circuitry elements of the secondary analysis circuitry
218 independent of any calculated intermediate confidence level, and may not calculate
an intermediate confidence level at all.
[0056]       In various implementations, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 also
receives information from the secondary analysis circuitry 218.            For example, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive behavioral information from the behavior
analysis circuitry 220 (including information from the trip analysis circuitry 222 or the
historical behavior analysis circuitry 224) or attribute matching information from the
vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226.      Additionally, in some implementations, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may control the operation of the secondary analysis
circuitry 218, for example, by determining whether or not to have various circuitry
elements of the secondary analysis circuitry 218 perform a secondary analysis on
candidate license plate identifications.
[0057]      After receiving the information from the secondary analysis circuitry 218 or the
primary analysis circuitry 208, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 can determine an
overall confidence level for a candidate license plate identification. Further, the probability
evaluation circuitry 232 can determine a correct license plate identification from amongst
multiple candidate license plate identifications provided by the other circuitry elements.
In one implementation, if the overall confidence level for a candidate license plate

                                              23
identification exceeds a minimum confidence threshold, then the probability evaluation
circuitry 232 may send the candidate license plate identification as the correctly identified
license plate identification to the transaction processing circuitry 234 to effect billing and
collection of the toll.
[0058]       In various implementations, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 includes a
statistical model of random variables 233. The statistical model of random variables 233
may receive as inputs any or all of the data received from the primary analysis circuitry
208 or the secondary analysis circuitry 218. For example, the statistical model of random
variables 233 may receive an identification confidence level (e.g., for a candidate license
plate identification) from the primary analysis circuitry 208 (e.g., from the first OCR
circuitry 210, the second OCR circuitry 212, or the fingerprinting circuitry 214) and
behavioral information or attribute information from the secondary analysis circuitry 218
(e.g., historical toll data for a candidate license plate identification, a confidence level
modifier, a modified confidence level for the candidate license plate identification, an
indication that a condition has been met, or associated confidence levels associated with
the generation of the above stated data). The statistical model of random variables 233
may also receive the candidate license plate identification.        The statistical model of
random variables 233 may then be executed to generate the overall confidence level for
the candidate license plate identification. With this information, the probability evaluation
circuitry 232 can determine whether or not the candidate license plate identification is the
correct license plate identification for a toll event (e.g., based on a minimum overall
confidence level threshold), or can determine which candidate license plate from multiple
candidate license plates is the correct license plate identification for a toll event.
[0059]       In one implementation, the statistical model of random variables 233 is
implemented in a Bayesian network (also called a Bayes network, belief network,
Bayesian model, or probabilistic directed acyclic graphical (DAG) model).           In another
implementation, the statistical model of random variables 233 is a fuzzy Bayesian network
(FBN)    A FBN accounts for imprecise boundaries for categorizations, random variables,
or other aspects, through the use of fuzzy numbers or fuzzy logic. In various examples,
the FBN considers the set of variables from circuitry elements 208, 212, 214, 215, 220
(including 222 and 224), and 226 as an hybrid set of continuous and discrete values, thus
constituting a hybrid Bayesian network where some of the DAG vertices and edges are
both discrete and continuous variables. The hybrid Bayesian network is constructed on

                                               24
these sets of variables and their assumed probabilistic correlation. As the historical data
for the data sets from the input variables grows, accuracy of general inference that drives
the vehicle recognition decision increases, retro-feeding the variables correlation analysis
and the model knowledge base, thus making the system learn. Weights of the input
variables in the model are configurable, but also accompany the mutating strengths of
the correlations. For a base configuration, the impact of the 208, 212, 214, and 215
results are manifold those of the 222, 224 and 226 readings.
[0060]       In a different approach, statistical model of random variables 233 is a finite
state machine that reproduces a Markov chain, which can provide a probability used as
a discrete input in the decision.     The states are derived from the confidence levels
received from each of the circuitry elements 208, 212, 214, 215 220 (including 222 and
224) and 226, in the transition matrix, to reach a cumulative probability vector to be used
on a final confidence level threshold decision.
[0061]       Over time, the statistical model of random variables 233 is trained and
retrained with historical and new data such that the accuracy of the statistical model 233
improves over time. The probability evaluation circuitry 232 is connected to a knowledge
database 236 that may store various trained statistical models, coefficients, random
variable attributes, as well as historical knowledge associated with the statistical model
233 and historical toll events. The knowledge database 236 may be the same as or
shared with the vehicle attribute database 230, the historical toll database 228, the
fingerprint database 216, and or the image database 206.
[0062]       In various implementations, if the probability evaluation circuitry 232
determines that the overall confidence level does not exceed a minimum confidence
threshold, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may send the toll event and its
associated data (e.g., images and possibly any candidate license plate identifications) to
a user interface via user interface circuitry 238 to implement a human review of the toll
event to determine or validate a correct license plate identification for the toll event. The
user interface circuitry 238 may display the image(s) or any other data about the toll event
via a graphical user interface and may receive an external license plate identification for
the image(s), for example, from a human reviewing user. The probability evaluation
circuitry 232 (or other circuitry elements) may receive the external license plate
identification for the image(s) and update one or more database or statistical model

                                                25
accordingly.    The external license plate identification data (e.g., from human users)
provides valuable information for the system 200 in that the data received is verified for
accuracy by a human and therefore provides accurate data points with which the
statistical  models, OCR        processes, fingerprinting      processes,    behavior analysis
processes, or vehicle attribute processes can be improved or refined.
[0063]      Figure 3 provides an example application of the various IALPR processes
discussed above. An image 302 of a vehicle 304 proximate to a toll collection point,
captured by a camera at the toll collection point, includes a license plate 306. A pre
processing circuitry or program may isolate the portion image 302 including the license
plate 306, as is shown in the image of the license plate 308. In this hypothetical example,
the image of the license plate 308 shows that an obstruction 309 (e.g., dirt, grease, oil,
debris, snow, or another obstruction) is obstructing the view of a portion of the license
plate, which may impact the analysis of the image of the license plate 308 to determine
the license plate identification.
[0064]      The image of the license plate 308 may undergo a primary analysis process
310, which may include a first OCR process 312 performed by the first OCR circuitry 210.
In some implementations, the primary analysis process 310 includes a second OCR
process 314 performed by the second OCR circuitry 212, while in some implementations
the primary analysis process 310 also includes a fingerprinting process 316 performed
by the fingerprinting circuitry 214. The first OCR process and the second OCR process
may each determine a candidate license plate string. Here, due to the obstruction 309,
the first OCR process 312 determines a different candidate license plate string
("SPA5876") from the second OCR process 314 ("SPA5076"). In this example, the first
OCR process 312 was impacted by the obstruction 309 to determine the fifth character is
an "8" instead of a "0." Further, the first OCR process 312 may determine that the
confidence level associated with this license plate string (and thus a corresponding
license plate identification) is relatively high as it thinks it clearly recognizes an "8." In a
different manner, however, the second OCR process 314 may have provided the correct
candidate license plate string or license plate identification, but it may have a decreased
confidence level as the presence of the obstruction 309 may decrease its confidence in
its recognition of the fifth character "0." Thus, in this instance, two different license plate

                                               26
strings (and two different license plate identifications) are determined based on the two
different OCR processes 312 and 314.
[0065]      Additionally, in one implementation, the fingerprinting process 316 can
determine a fingerprint of the image of the license plate 308. As is shown at 316, the
fingerprinting process 316 may examine multiple points of interest 317 to determine
characteristics and distances therebetween to generate a fingerprint. The fingerprinting
process 316 may then compare that determined fingerprint to other select stored
fingerprints to determine a fingerprint candidate license plate and a fingerprint confidence
level. The select stored fingerprints may be selected from all or some of the candidate
license plate strings determined in the first OCR process 312 and the second OCR
process 314 as well as the derivative candidate license plate strings determined by the
derivative candidate license plate circuitry 215. In this example, we can assume the
fingerprinting processes 316 determined that the image of the license plate 308 properly
corresponded to the license plate identification "SPA5076."         However, a fingerprint
confidence level may be reduced due the obstruction 309 impacting the analysis.
[0066]      The various candidate license plate identifications may be provided to a
secondary analysis process 318, which may include a rules-based analysis process 319
performed by the rules-based analysis circuitry 219, a behavioral analysis process 320
performed by the behavior analysis circuitry 220 (coupled to the historical toll database
228), or a vehicle attribute analysis processes 322 performed by the vehicle attribute
analysis circuitry 226 (coupled to the vehicle attribute database 230). The secondary
analysis process 318 may be carried out as discussed elsewhere herein, and may provide
results and data to a probability evaluation process 324 performed by the probability
evaluation circuitry 232. As is shown here, at the completion of the example IALPR
process, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 outputs a determination of the correct
license plate identification 326 for the toll event.
[0067]      Figure 4 shows an example specific system implementation 400 for the IALPR
system 200. According to implementation 400, the system 200 includes system circuitry
402 to support implementation of the various circuitry elements, processes, and
functionality discussed above with respect to Figures 2 and 3, and elsewhere herein. In
one implementation, the system circuitry 402 includes processors 404, memory 406, or
other circuitry. The processors 404 may be connected to the memory 406 and may

                                               27
include a memory system including a plurality of memory devices collocated or distributed
across multiple systems. The memory 406 may store control instructions, operational
parameters for the control instructions, datasets, and other information.         The control
instructions may be executed by the processor 404 to implement any of the processing
described below, according to a configuration set by the operational parameters. Further,
in some implementations, various circuitry elements of the system 200 may be
implemented by the system circuitry 402. For example, toll point controller 204, the first
OCR circuitry 210, the second OCR circuitry 212, the fingerprinting circuitry 214, the
behavior analysis circuitry 220 (including the trip analysis circuitry 222 or the historical
behavior analysis circuitry 224), the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226, the probability
evaluation circuitry 232, the transaction processing circuitry 234, or the user interface
circuitry 238 may be implemented in whole or in part by one or more instances of the
system circuitry 402.
[0068]      The memory 406 may store data and instructions for use by the circuitry
elements or to implement portions of the circuitry elements. In one implementation, the
memory 406 includes analysis rules 408, which may determine various thresholds or rules
to follow during analysis of an image of a license plate (e.g., a rule such as always perform
the secondary analysis process if the front and rear plate do not match). The memory
406 may also include first OCR process instructions 410 or second OCR process
instructions 412. The processors 404, memory 406, and first or second OCR process
instructions 410, 412 may implement portions of the first OCR circuitry 210 or second
OCR circuitry 212, respectively, shown in Figure 2.         Similarly, the memory 406 may
include fingerprinting process instructions 414, which, together with the processors 404
or other circuitry, may implement all or portions of the fingerprinting circuitry 214 shown
in Figure 2. Further, the memory 406 may include vehicle attribute analysis instructions
416, which, together with the processors 404 or other circuitry, may implement all or
portions of the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 shown in Figure 2. Additionally, the
memory 406 may include vehicle behavior analysis instructions 418, possibly also
including therewith trip analysis instructions 420 or historical behavior analysis
instructions 422, which, together with the processors 404 or other circuitry, may
implement all or portions of the behavior analysis circuitry 220, the trip analysis circuitry
222, or the historical behavior analysis circuitry 224, respectively. The memory 406 may
include probability evaluation instructions 424, which, together with the processors 404

                                             28
or other circuitry, may implement all or portions of the probability evaluation circuitry 232.
The memory 406 may also include statistical model data or instructions 426, thresholds
428, or other data associated with the probability evaluation process. Similarly, the
memory 406 may also include user interface instructions 430, which may further include
graphical user interface (GUI) instructions and data 432. The processors 404, memory
406, user interface instructions 430 and GUI instructions and data 432 may implement
portions of the user interface circuitry 238 shown in Figure 2. Additionally, the memory
406 may include transaction processing instructions 434, which, together with the
processors 404 or other circuitry, may implement all or portions of the transaction
processing circuitry 234 shown in Figure 2.       Other instructions or data may also be
included in memory 406.
[0069]      The system 200 may also include communication interfaces 436, which may
support wireless communication via wireless communication circuitry 438 and antennas
440. Example wireless communication protocols may include Bluetooth, Wireless Fidelity
(Wi-Fi), Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN), near field communication protocols,
cellular protocols (2G, 3G, 4G, Long Term Evolution (LTE) Long Term Expansion
Advanced (LTE-A)), or other wireless protocols. Also, communication interface 436 may
include wired communication circuitry 442. Example wired communication protocols may
include Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, asynchronous transfer mode protocols, passive and
synchronous optical      networking    protocols,  Data   Over Cable Service Interface
Specification (DOCSIS) protocols, EPOC protocols, synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH)
protocols, Multimedia over coax alliance (MoCA) protocols, digital subscriber line (DSL)
protocols, cable communication protocols, or other networks and network protocols. The
communication interfaces 436 may be connected or configured to connect to the networks
444, including the Internet or an intranet, to enable the system 200 and the system
circuitry 402 therein to communicate with other systems and devices. Additionally, the
communication interface 436 includes system busses 446 to effect intercommunication
between various elements, components, and circuitry portions of the system 200.
Example system bus implementations include Peripheral Component Interconnect
Express (PCIe), Serial or Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA or PATA),
and integrated drive electronics (IDE) based buses.
[0070]      The communication interfaces 436 may enable interconnection of various
circuitry components illustrated in Figure 2 within the system 200.        For example, the

                                               29
communication interfaces 436 may couple to and interconnect the toll point controller 204,
the primary analysis circuitry 208, the secondary analysis circuitry 218, the probability
evaluation circuitry 232, the user interface circuitry 238, or the transaction processing
circuitry 234. Further, the communication interfaces 436 may couple and interconnect
the various databases and other peripheral devices show in Figure 2 internally via system
busses 446 if internally maintained, or externally via the wireless communication circuitry
438 or the wired communication            circuitry 442 if externally maintained.         The
communication interfaces 436 may also support communication with remote storage
databases 448, which may implement any or all of the databases shown in Figure 2.
Further, the communication interfaces 436 may support communication between remote
circuitry elements, for example, if different circuitry elements (e.g., the first OCR circuitry
210 and the behavior analysis circuitry 220) are instantiated on separate or remote
system circuitry (e.g., on separate servers connected by a network 444). For example,
the communication interfaces 436 may enable various back office portions of the system
to communicate with toll point controller 120 or other equipment associated with a toll
collection point 104.
[0071]      The communication interfaces 436 may support communication with external
client devices 450. Communication with the external client devices 450 may be effected
through user interface circuitry 238 or with user interface instructions 430. A dynamically
reconfigurable GUI may be provided to the external client devices 450 via the networks
444 to enable interaction between the client devices 450 and the system 400.               For
example, the client devices 450 may be used during a human review process to enable
external identification of license plates in images for toll events.
[0072]       In some implementations, the system 200 may itself include various I/O
interfaces 452 or a display 454, for example, to enable local interaction with the various
circuitry elements discussed above instead of or in addition to interaction over the
networks 444 with a remote client device 450. In some examples, the display 454 can
provide a user interface 456 to a local user, which can be the same as or a variation of a
user interface that can be provided to a remote client device 450 (discussed below).
[0073]      Additionally, the I/O interfaces 452 and display 454 may enable local
maintenance engineers to interact with the system 200. A local GUI may be provided via
the local display 454 to present a control dashboard, actionable insights or other

                                              30
information to a maintenance engineer. The local GUI may support portable access, such
as, via a web-based GUI, to enable maintenance on the system 200 or other interaction
with the system 200.      This local GUI may be the same as or different from the GUI
described elsewhere. The system 200 may also include a storage drive 458 (e.g., a hard
drive, solid-state drive, or other memory system) to enable local storage of system
software, user interfaces, or system instructions.        The storage drive 458 may also
implement any or all of the databases shown on Figure 2.
[0074]       Figure 5 shows a flow diagram of logic 500 that the system 200 may implement
as part of a process to determine a license plate identification for a toll event.         For
instance, the behavior analysis circuitry 220 or the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may
be configured to implement some or all of the logic 500 shown in Figure 5. The behavior
analysis circuitry 220 or the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive a candidate
license plate identification associated with an image of a vehicle proximate to a current
toll collection point during a current toll event (502) or an identification confidence level
associated with the candidate license plate identification (504). The candidate license
plate identification and associated identification confidence level may be received via a
communication interface 436 from one or more circuitry elements of the primary analysis
circuitry 208. The behavior analysis circuitry 232 may perform a behavioral analysis
process on the candidate license plate identification to generate behavioral information
(506). The behavioral analysis process may include performing a behavioral analysis of
geospatial vehicle position data related to the candidate license plate identification. The
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may then determine an overall confidence level
associated with the candidate license plate identification responsive to (e.g., based on)
the candidate license plate identification, the identification confidence level, and the
behavioral information (508).     The probability evaluation circuitry 232 may make this
determination (508) using a statistical model of random variables 233 (510).
[0075]       Figure 6 shows another flow diagram of logic 600 that the system 200 may
implement as part of a process to determine a license plate identification for a toll event.
For instance, the first OCR circuitry 210, the second OCR circuitry, or the fingerprinting
circuitry 214 may be configured to implement some or all of the logic 600 shown in Figure
6. The first OCR circuitry 210, for example, may receive an image including a license
plate of a vehicle proximate to a current toll collection point (602). The first OCR circuitry
210 may perform a first OCR process on the image to determine a candidate license plate

                                                31
string (604), determine a candidate license plate identification associated with the
candidate license plate string (606), and determine a first OCR confidence level for the
candidate license plate identification based on the first OCR process (608). Similarly, the
second OCR circuitry 212 may also receive the image and may perform a second OCR
process on the image to determine a second candidate license plate string (610),
determine a second candidate license plate identification associated with the second
candidate license plate string (612), and determine a second OCR confidence level for
the second candidate license plate identification based on the second OCR process
(614). In various implementations, the second OCR process is different from the first
OCR process. In such an implementation, the step of determining the overall confidence
level (508) may include the probability evaluation circuitry 232 determining the overall
confidence level for the candidate license plate identification responsive to the first OCR
confidence level, the second OCR confidence level, or other generated data.
[0076]       Similarly, fingerprinting circuitry 214, as implemented on processor 404 or
another processor, may also receive the image and may perform a fingerprint process on
the license plate of the image to determine a current license plate fingerprint of the license
plate of the vehicle (616). The fingerprinting circuitry 214 may then compare the current
license plate fingerprint to stored license plate fingerprints to determine a closest license
plate fingerprint to the current license plate fingerprint of the license plate of the vehicle
(618). The fingerprinting circuitry 214 may then determine a fingerprint candidate license
plate identification responsive to (e.g., matching) the closest license plate fingerprint (620)
and determine a fingerprint confidence level for the fingerprint candidate license plate
identification responsive to the closest license plate fingerprint (622).               In this
implementation, the step of determining the overall confidence level (508) may include
the probability evaluation circuitry 232 determining the overall confidence level for the
candidate license plate identification responsive to the first or second OCR confidence
level, the fingerprint candidate license plate identification, the fingerprint confidence level,
or other generated data.
[0077]       Figure 7 shows another flow diagram of logic 700 that the system 200 may
implement as part of a process to perform the behavioral analysis (506) or determine an
overall confidence level for a candidate license plate identification (508) as shown in
Figure 5. In this implementation, performing the behavioral analysis includes performing
a trip context analysis.     For instance, the trip analysis circuitry 222 or the probability

                                               32
evaluation circuitry 232 may be configured to implement some or all of the logic 700
shown in Figure 7. The trip analysis circuitry 222 may search for a related toll event
occurring at a related toll collection point with respect to the current toll collection point
and having a license plate identification matching the candidate license plate identification
(702). For example, the searching may be performed on the historical toll database 228.
The trip analysis circuitry 222 may determine a current travel time from a time difference
between the current toll event and the related toll event (704). Further, the trip analysis
circuitry 222 may determine an average travel time between the current toll collection
point and the related toll collection point (706), and determine a degree of difference
between the current travel time and the average travel time (708).
[0078]      As part of step 508 in Figure 5, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 or the
trip analysis circuitry 222 may alter the overall confidence level for the candidate license
plate identification responsive to the trip analysis circuitry 222 finding the related toll event
(e.g., in the historical toll database) and responsive to determining the degree of
difference between the current travel time and the average travel time (710).                 For
example, the smaller the degree of difference is (e.g., indicating the closer the current
travel time is to the average travel time), the higher the probability evaluation circuitry 232
can alter the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate identification. If no
related toll event is found, then the overall confidence level may be reduced or remain
unaltered.
[0079]      Alternatively, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 or the trip analysis circuitry
222 may increase the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate identification
when the related toll event is found and when the related toll event occurred within a travel
time range based on an average travel time between the current toll collection point and
the related toll collection point. Such a travel time range may represent an average travel
time range that is a percentage or amount shorter than the average travel time (e.g., to
account for faster or more aggressive drivers) up to a percentage or amount longer than
the average travel time (e.g., to account for slower drivers or to account for stops that
may be taken along the route, for example, at a rest area or a service station). Many

                                               33
different discrete travel time ranges may be determined, each with differing amounts by
which the overall probability may be altered or affected.
[0080]       Figure 8 shows another flow diagram of logic 800 that the system 200 may
implement as part of a process to perform the behavioral analysis (506) or determine an
overall confidence level for a candidate license plate identification (508) as shown in
Figure 5. In this implementation, performing the behavioral analysis includes performing
a historical behavioral analysis. For instance, the historical behavior analysis circuitry
224 or the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may be configured to implement some or
all of the logic 800 shown in Figure 8. The historical behavior analysis circuitry 224 may
search for historical toll events occurring at the current toll collection point with a license
plate identification matching the candidate license plate identification (802). The historical
behavior analysis circuitry 224 may then determine a historical daily toll event pattern for
the license plate identification responsive to (e.g., based on) the plurality of historical toll
events (804) and determine whether a toll event corresponding to the image occurred
within a daily toll time range of the historical daily toll event pattern for the license plate
identification (806). The probability evaluation circuitry 232 or the historical behavior
analysis circuitry 224 may then increase or otherwise alter the overall confidence level for
the candidate license plate identification when the toll event corresponding to the image
occurred within the daily toll time range (808).
[0081]       Figure 9 shows another flow diagram of logic 900 that the system 200 may
implement as part of a process to perform the behavioral analysis (506) or determine an
overall confidence level for a candidate license plate identification (508) as shown in
Figure 5.     For instance, the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 or the probability
evaluation circuitry 232 may be configured to implement some or all of the logic 900
shown in Figure 9. The vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may receive a physical
vehicle attribute of a vehicle in an image of the vehicle proximate to a current toll collection
point (902). Alternatively, the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may receive the
image and determine a physical vehicle attribute of the vehicle in the image. The physical
vehicle attribute or the image may be received via the communication interface 436. The
vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may determine whether the physical vehicle
attribute matches a pre-determined vehicle attribute associated with the candidate license
plate identification (904). This may entail comparing the physical vehicle attribute to the
pre-determined vehicle attribute associated with the candidate license plate identification.

                                             34
The vehicle attribute analysis circuitry 226 may determine a physical vehicle attribute
matching confidence level (906). The probability evaluation circuitry 232 or the vehicle
attribute analysis circuitry 226 may alter the overall confidence level for the candidate
license plate identification responsive to (e.g., dependent on) determining that the
physical vehicle attribute matches the pre-determined vehicle attribute and responsive to
determining the physical vehicle attribute matching confidence level (908). For example,
the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate identification may be increased
when the physical vehicle attribute matches the pre-determined vehicle attribute.
[0082]       Figure 10 shows another flow diagram of logic 1000 that the system 200 may
implement as part of a process to determine a license plate identification for a toll event.
For instance, the first or second OCR circuitry 210, 212 or the probability evaluation
circuitry 232 may be configured to implement some or all of the logic 1000 shown in Figure
10. The first or second OCR circuitry 210, 212 may generate a derivative candidate
license plate string(s) from the candidate license plate string (1002).       The derivative
candidate license plate string may be a string that is close to or similar in appearance to
the original candidate license plate string. An example of similar license plate strings is
shown in Figure 3 where the two license plate strings ("SPA5876" and "SPA5076") are
similar. In one example, the second string ("SPA5076") may be a derivative of an original
candidate license plate string ("SPA5876"). In various implementations, the first or
second OCR circuitry 210, 212, or another circuitry element, may evaluate the reading
probability or confidence level with every individual character and generate alternative
license plate strings. In some implementations, the first or second OCR circuitry 210, 212
may use grammatical inference algorithms based on the concepts of Hamming or
Levenshtein distances to generate derivative candidate license plate strings.
[0083]       The first or second OCR circuitry 210, 212 may then determine a derivative
candidate license plate identification(s) responsive to (e.g., matching) the derivative
candidate license plate string(s) (1004). The first or second OCR circuitry 210, 212 may
also determine a derivative confidence level for the derivative candidate license plate
identification(s) (1006). The process of determining the derivative confidence levels may
be similar to the process of determining the OCR confidence levels in steps 608 or 614.
The behavior analysis circuitry 220 can subsequently perform behavioral analysis on the
derivative candidate license plate identification(s) (1008), which may be the same
processes as are performed on the original candidate license plate identifications as in

                                                35
step 506. The behavior analysis circuitry 220 or the probability evaluation circuitry 232
may then determine a derivative overall confidence level(s) for the derivative candidate
license plate identification(s) responsive to the derivative confidence level and the
behavioral analysis (1010), which may be the same processes as are performed on the
original candidate license plate identifications as in step 508.
[0084]       Once overall confidence levels are determined for the original candidate
license plate identifications and the derivative candidate license plate identifications, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 can determine the proper license plate identification
for the toll event according to which license plate identification has the highest associated
overall confidence level. For example, if two different license plates have similarly high
overall confidence levels associated therewith, then the toll event and the associated data
may be sent to the user interface circuitry 238 to implement human review of the image
of the vehicle at the toll collection point during the toll event.
[0085]       Figure 11 shows another flow diagram of logic 1100 that the system 200 may
implement as part of a process to determine a license plate identification for a toll event.
For instance, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may be configured to implement
some or all of the logic 1100 shown in Figure 11. The probability evaluation circuitry 232
may determine an intermediate confidence level for the candidate license plate
identification responsive to the first OCR confidence level, the second OCR confidence
level, or the fingerprint confidence level (1102). The probability evaluation circuitry 232
may also determine that the intermediate confidence level exceeds an intermediate
confidence level threshold (1104).        If the intermediate confidence level exceeds the
intermediate confidence level threshold, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may forgo
secondary analysis by the various circuitry elements of the secondary analysis circuitry
218. Alternatively, if the intermediate confidence level does not exceed the intermediate
confidence level threshold, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may then effect
performance of the behavioral analysis on the candidate license plate identification and
determine the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate identification
responsive to (e.g., based on) the first or second OCR confidence level, the fingerprint

                                              36
candidate license plate identification, and the fingerprint confidence level, the behavioral
analysis information, or the attribute matching information (1106).
[0086]       After determining the overall confidence level for a candidate license plate
identification, the probability evaluation circuitry 232 may determine that the overall
confidence level does not exceed a minimum confidence threshold (1108).             If so, the
probability evaluation circuitry 232 may effect the user interface circuitry 238 to display
the image at the toll collection point on a GUI in communication with the processor 404
(1110). For example, the GUI may be provided on a client device 450 to effect human
review of the image to determine the correct license plate identification for the vehicle at
the toll collection point. The probability evaluation circuitry 232 may receive from the GUI
an external license plate identification for the image (1112). The external license plate
identification may be a user-typed license plate string for the license plate, or may be an
indication that a previously determined candidate license plate identification was correct
or incorrect. The probability evaluation circuitry 232 or other circuitry elements may then
update a license plate database (e.g., knowledge database 236, vehicle attribute
database 230, historical toll database 228, or fingerprint database 216) with the external
license plate identification (1114), as discussed above. The updated data can later be
used to retrain various models or provide more accurate confidence levels associated
with candidate license plate identifications.
[0087]       Figure 12 illustrates an example graphic user interface (GUI) 1200 that the
user interface circuitry 238 may generate and provide to a user at a client device 450.
The GUI 1200 implements an improved machine interface for reviewing images and
license plates associated with vehicles at toll collection points during a toll event. The
GUI 1200 may present an image 1202 of the vehicle at the toll collection point, and may
also provide extracted image portions corresponding to the front license plate 1204 or the
rear license plate 1206. The GUI 1200 may provide the user with an ability to provide an
external license plate identification. For example, the GUI 1200 may provide a prompt
1208 for the user to type in or otherwise enter a license plate identification associated
with the license plate in the image 1202. Additionally or alternatively, the GUI 1200 may
provide one or more determined candidate license plate identifications 1210 with a
response input 1212 to indicate whether one of the candidate license plate identifications

                                               37
are the correct license plate for the vehicle in the image 1202. Many variations are
possible.
[0088]       So configured, an IALPR system 200 is provided such that multiple layers of
license plate recognition processes can be utilized.        Behavior analysis circuitry and
vehicle attribute analysis circuitry may be used to take into account data or aspects not
previously utilized in IALPR processes.       Probability evaluation circuitry evaluates and
analyzes the various outputs from those processes together to determine the correct
identification of a license plate in the image. As a result, the overall confidence level for
a determination of a license plate identification is improved, thereby reducing the need
for expensive human review and reducing the occurrence of incorrect toll assessment
due to incorrect license plate identification.
[0089]       The methods, devices, processing, circuitry, structures, architectures, and
logic described above may be implemented in many different ways and in many different
combinations of hardware and software. For example, all or parts of the implementations
may be circuitry that includes an instruction processor, such as a Central Processing Unit
(CPU), microcontroller, or a microprocessor; or as an Application Specific Integrated
Circuit (ASIC), Programmable Logic Device (PLD), or Field Programmable Gate Array
(FPGA); or as circuitry that includes discrete logic or other circuit components, including
analog circuit components, digital circuit components or both; or any combination thereof.
The circuitry may include discrete interconnected hardware components or may be
combined on a single integrated circuit die, distributed among multiple integrated circuit
dies, or implemented in a Multiple Chip Module (MCM) of multiple integrated circuit dies
in a common package, as examples.
[0090]      Accordingly, the circuitry may store or access instructions for execution, or may
implement its functionality in hardware alone. The instructions may be stored in one or
more non-transitory computer-readable mediums that may include a tangible storage
medium that is other than a transitory signal, such as a flash memory, a Random Access
Memory (RAM), a Read Only Memory (ROM), an Erasable Programmable Read Only
Memory (EPROM); or on a magnetic or optical disc, such as a Compact Disc Read Only
Memory (CDROM), Hard Disk Drive (HDD), or other magnetic or optical disk; or in or on
another machine-readable medium. A product, such as a computer program product,
may include a storage medium and instructions stored in or on the medium, and the

                                              38
instructions when executed by the circuitry in a device may cause the device to implement
any of the processing described above or illustrated in the drawings. The computer
readable medium may include instructions that, when executed by circuitry elements,
cause the circuitry elements to perform a method including one or more steps discussed
in this disclosure.
[0091]       The implementations may be distributed.        For instance, the circuitry may
include multiple distinct system components, such as multiple processors and memories,
and may span multiple distributed processing systems.          Parameters, databases, and
other data structures may be separately stored and managed, may be incorporated into
a single memory or database, may be logically and physically organized in many different
ways, and may be implemented in many different ways.              Example implementations
include linked lists, program variables, hash tables, arrays, records (e.g., database
records), objects, and implicit storage mechanisms.       Instructions may form parts (e.g.,
subroutines or other code sections) of a single program, may form multiple separate
programs, may be distributed across multiple memories and processors, and may be
implemented in many different ways.         Example implementations include stand-alone
programs, and as part of a library, such as a shared library like a Dynamic Link Library
(DLL).    The library, for example, may contain shared data and one or more shared
programs that include instructions that perform any of the processing described above or
illustrated in the drawings, when executed by the circuitry.
[0092]      Various implementations have been specifically described. However, many
other implementations are also possible.
[0093]       Throughout this specification and the claim which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[0094]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge.

                                                39
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A method including:
        receiving, at a processor, an image including a representation of at least one
license plate of a vehicle when the vehicle is proximate to a current toll collection point;
        performing, by the processor, a first optical character recognition (OCR) process
on the image to determine a respective candidate license plate string of, or each of, the
at least one license plate;
        determining, by the processor, a candidate license plate identification associated
with the or each candidate license plate string;
        determining, by the processor, an OCR confidence level for the candidate license
plate identification based on the first OCR process; and
        determining, by the processor, whether the OCR confidence level exceeds a
confidence level threshold, and in the event the threshold is exceeded, identifying the
license plate as the candidate license plate identification, and alternatively, if the threshold
is not exceeded:
        performing, by the processor, a behavioral analysis of geospatial vehicle position
data related to the candidate license plate identification;
        generating, by the processor, a behavioral analysis result based on the analysis of
the geospatial vehicle position data;
        determining, by the processor, a vehicle attribute of the vehicle in the image;
        comparing, by the processor, the vehicle attribute to a pre-determined vehicle
attribute associated with the, or each candidate license plate identification; and
        determining, by the processor, an overall confidence level for the candidate license
plate identification responsive to the OCR confidence level, the behavioral analysis result
and the vehicle classification comparison.
2.      A method according to claim 1, where:
        performing the behavioral analysis includes performing a trip context analysis, the
trip context analysis including:
                searching for a related toll event occurring at a related toll collection point,
        the related toll collection point with respect to the current toll collection point, and
        having a license plate identification matching the candidate license plate
        identification; and

                                                40
               increasing the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate
       identification when:
                       the related toll event is found, and
                       the related toll event occurred within a travel time range,
                              the travel time range based on an average travel time
                       between the current toll collection point and the related toll collection
                       point.
3.     A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where:
       performing the behavioral analysis includes performing a historical behavioral
analysis, the historical behavioral analysis including:
               searching for historical toll events occurring at the current toll collection
       point, the historical toll events associated with a license plate identification
       matching the candidate license plate identification;
               determining, by the processor, a historical daily toll event pattern associated
       with the license plate identification, the determining responsive to the historical toll
       events;
               determining, by the processor, whether a toll event corresponding to the
       image occurred within a daily toll time range of the historical daily toll event pattern
       for the license plate identification; and
               increasing the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate
       identification when the toll event corresponding to the image occurred within the
       daily toll time range.
4.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
       determining, by the processor, a physical vehicle attribute of the vehicle in the
image;
       comparing, by the processor, the physical vehicle attribute to a pre-determined
vehicle attribute associated with the candidate license plate identification; and
       increasing the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate identification
when the physical vehicle attribute matches the pre-determined vehicle attribute.
5.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including
determining the overall confidence level using a statistical model of random variables.

                                              41
6.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
        performing, by the processor, a second OCR process on the image to determine
a second candidate license plate string, the second OCR process different from the first
OCR process;
        determining, by the processor, a second candidate license plate identification
associated with the second candidate license plate string;
        determining, by the processor, a second OCR confidence level for the second
candidate license plate identification based on the second OCR process; and
        determining, by the processor, the overall confidence level for the candidate
license plate identification based on the OCR confidence level and the second OCR
confidence level.
7.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
         performing, by the processor, a fingerprint process on the license plate of the
image to determine a current license plate fingerprint;
        comparing, by the processor, the current license plate fingerprint to stored license
plate fingerprints;
        determining, by the processor, a closest license plate fingerprint to the current
license plate fingerprint, the determining responsive to the comparing;
        determining, by the processor, a fingerprint candidate license plate identification,
the fingerprint candidate license plate identification responsive to the closest license plate
fingerprint; and
        determining, by the processor, a fingerprint confidence level for the fingerprint
candidate license plate identification responsive to the closest license plate fingerprint.
8.      A method according to claim 7, further including:
        determining an intermediate confidence level for the candidate license plate
identification, the determining responsive to the OCR confidence level and the fingerprint
confidence level; and
        determining, by the processor, that the intermediate confidence level does not
exceed an intermediate confidence level threshold.

                                               42
9.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
        determining, by the processor, that the overall confidence level does not exceed a
minimum confidence threshold;
        displaying the image at the toll collection point on a graphical user interface in
communication with the processor;
        receiving, from the graphical user interface, an external license plate identification
for the image; and
        updating a license plate database with the external license plate identification.
10.     A method according to any one of the preceding claims, further including:
        generating, by the processor, a derivative candidate license plate string from the
candidate license plate string;
        determining, by the processor, a derivative candidate license plate identification
responsive to the derivative candidate license plate string;
        determining, by the processor, a derivative confidence level for the derivative
candidate license plate identification;
        performing, by the processor, the behavioral analysis on the derivative candidate
license plate identification; and
        determining, by the processor, a derivative overall confidence level for the
derivative candidate license plate identification responsive to the derivative confidence
level and the behavioral analysis.
11.     A system including:
        a communication interface configured to receive:
                a candidate license plate identification associated with each license plate of
        a vehicle represented in an image of the vehicle proximate to a current toll
        collection point during a current toll event and vehicle attribute information of the
        vehicle in the image, and
                an identification confidence level associated with the candidate license
        plate identification;
        rules-based analysis circuitry coupled to the communication interface, the rules
based analysis circuitry configured to perform a comparison of a vehicle attribute
associated with the vehicle attribute information to a pre-determined vehicle attribute
associated with the, or each candidate license plate identification to generate comparison

                                                 43
information;
        behavioral analysis circuitry coupled to the communication                 interface, the
behavioral analysis circuitry configured to perform a behavioral analysis of geospatial
vehicle positioning data related to the candidate license plate identification to generate
behavioral information; and
        probability evaluation circuitry configured to determine whether the identification
confidence level exceeds a confidence level threshold, and in the event the threshold is
exceeded, to identify the license plate as the candidate license plate identification, and
alternatively, if the threshold is not exceeded, to determine an overall confidence level
associated with the candidate license plate identification responsive to the candidate
license plate identification, the identification confidence level, the comparison information,
and the behavioral information.
12.     A system according to claim 11, wherein the behavioral analysis circuitry is further
configured to:
                 search for a related toll event occurring at a related toll collection point with
        respect to the current toll collection point and having a license plate identification
        matching the candidate license plate identification;
                 determine a current travel time from a time difference between the current
        toll event and the related toll event;
                 determine an average travel time between the current toll collection point
        and the related toll collection point; and
                 determine a degree of difference between the current travel time and the
        average travel time related.
13.     A system according to either claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the behavioral analysis
circuitry is further configured to:
                 search for historical toll events occurring at the current toll collection point
        with a license plate identification matching the              candidate license plate
        identification;
                 determine a historical daily toll event pattern including a daily toll time range
        for the license plate identification responsive to the historical toll events; and
                 determine whether the current toll event occurred within the daily toll time
        range.

                                                44
14.     A system according to any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the communication
interface is further configured to receive a physical vehicle attribute of the vehicle in the
image;
        the system further including vehicle attribute analysis circuitry configured to:
               determine whether the physical vehicle attribute matches a pre-determined
        vehicle attribute associated with a license plate identification matching the
        candidate license plate identification; and
               determine a physical vehicle attribute matching confidence level; and
        the probability evaluation circuitry further configured to alter the overall confidence
level for the candidate license plate identification responsive to determining that the
physical vehicle attribute matches the pre-determined vehicle attribute and responsive to
the physical vehicle attribute matching confidence level.
15.     A system according to any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein the probability
evaluation circuitry further includes a statistical model of random variables.
16.     A computer-readable medium including instructions that, when executed by
circuitry elements, cause the circuitry elements to perform a method including:
        receiving, via a communication interface, a candidate license plate identification
associated with each license plate of a vehicle represented in an image of the vehicle
proximate to a current toll collection point during a current toll event, vehicle attribute
information of the vehicle in the image, and an identification confidence level associated
with the candidate license plate identification;
        performing, by rules-based analysis circuitry coupled to the communication
interface, a comparison of a vehicle attribute associated with the vehicle attribute
information to a predetermined vehicle attribute associated with the, or each candidate
license plate identification to generate comparison information;
        performing, by behavioral analysis circuitry coupled to the communication
interface, a behavioral analysis process on the candidate license plate identification to
generate behavioral information; and
        determining, by probability evaluation circuitry coupled to the behavioral analysis
circuitry, whether the identification confidence level exceeds a confidence level threshold,
and in the event the threshold is exceeded, identifying the license plate as the candidate

                                               45
license plate identification, and alternatively, if the threshold is not exceeded, determining
an overall confidence level associated with the candidate license plate identification
responsive to the candidate license plate identification, the identification confidence level,
the comparison information, and the behavioral information.
17.     A computer-readable medium according to claim 16, wherein the method further
includes:
        searching, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, for a related toll event occurring at
a related toll collection point with respect to the current toll collection point and having a
license plate identification matching the candidate license plate identification;
        determining, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, a current travel time from a time
difference between the current toll event and the related toll event;
        determining, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, an average travel time between
the current toll collection point and the related toll collection point;
        determining, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, a degree of difference between
the current travel time and the average travel time; and
        altering, by the probability evaluation circuitry, the overall confidence level for the
candidate license plate identification responsive to finding the related toll event and
responsive to determining the degree of difference between the current travel time and
the average travel time.
18.     A computer-readable medium according to either claim 16 or claim 17, wherein
the method further includes:
        searching, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, for historical toll events occurring at
the current toll collection point with a license plate identification matching the candidate
license plate identification;
        determining, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, a historical daily toll event pattern
including a daily toll time range for the license plate identification responsive to the
historical toll events;
        determining, by the behavioral analysis circuitry, whether the current toll event
occurred within the daily toll time range; and
        altering, by the probability evaluation circuitry, the overall confidence level for the
candidate license plate identification responsive to determining whether the current toll
event occurred within the daily toll time range.

                                              46
19.     A computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein
the method further includes:
         receiving, by the communication interface, a physical vehicle attribute of the
vehicle in the image;
        determining, by vehicle attribute analysis circuitry, whether the physical vehicle
attribute matches a pre-determined vehicle attribute associated with the candidate license
plate identification;
        determining, by the vehicle attribute analysis circuitry, a physical vehicle attribute
matching confidence level; and
        altering, by the probability evaluation circuitry, the overall confidence level for the
candidate license plate identification responsive to determining that the physical vehicle
attribute matches the pre-determined vehicle attribute and responsive to determining the
physical vehicle attribute matching confidence level.
20.     A computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 16 to 19, wherein
the method further includes determining, by the probability evaluation circuitry, the overall
confidence level associated with the candidate license plate identification using a
statistical model of random variables.
1a.     A method including:
         receiving, at a processor, an image including a representation of a license plate of
a vehicle when the vehicle is proximate to a current toll collection point;
         performing, by the processor, a first optical character recognition (OCR) process
on the image to determine a candidate license plate string;
        determining, by the processor, a candidate license plate identification associated
with the candidate license plate string;
        determining, by the processor, an OCR confidence level for the candidate license
plate identification based on the first OCR process;
         performing, by the processor, a behavioral analysis of geospatial vehicle position
data related to the candidate license plate identification;
        generating, by the processor, a behavioral analysis result based on the analysis of
the geospatial vehicle position data; and
        determining, by the processor, an overall confidence level for the candidate license

                                               47
plate identification responsive to the OCR confidence level and the behavioral analysis
result.
2a.     A system including:
        a communication interface configured to receive:
                a candidate license plate identification associated with an image of a vehicle
        proximate to a current toll collection point during a current toll event, and
                an identification confidence level associated with the candidate license
        plate identification;
        behavioral analysis circuitry coupled to the communication              interface, the
behavioral analysis circuitry configured to perform a behavioral analysis of geospatial
vehicle positioning data related to the candidate license plate identification to generate
behavioral information; and
        probability evaluation circuitry configured to determine an overall confidence level
associated with the candidate license plate identification responsive to the candidate
license plate identification, the identification confidence level, and the behavioral
information.
3a.     A computer-readable medium including instructions that, when executed by
circuitry elements, cause the circuitry elements to perform a method including:
        receiving, via a communication interface, a candidate license plate identification
associated with an image of a vehicle proximate to a current toll collection point during a
current toll event and an identification confidence level associated with the candidate
license plate identification;
        performing, by behavioral analysis circuitry coupled to the communication
interface, a behavioral analysis process on the candidate license plate identification to
generate behavioral information; and
        determining, by probability evaluation circuitry coupled to the behavioral analysis
circuitry, an overall confidence level associated with the candidate license plate
identification responsive to the candidate license plate identification, the identification
confidence level, and the behavioral information.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                                                 <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                Toll Point Controller /
             Camera                                                                                                                 Image
                                                      Image Capture and Pre-Processing Circuitry                  204
      202                                                                                                                          Database
                                                                                                                                              206
                                                                        Behavior Analysis
                      1st OCR Circuitry                                     Circuitry
                                          210                                                      Vehicle Attribute
            208                                                                                                                     Vehicle
                                                                                                   Analysis Circuitry              Attribute
                                                                          Trip Analysis                                            Database
                         2nd OCR Circuitry                                  Circuitry                                226
                                                212                                                                                           230
                                                                                      222
                           Derivative Candidate License                                                                          Historical Toll
                                   Plate Circuitry                         Historical
                                                    215                                                                            Database
                                                                        Behavior Analysis           Rules-based                                     2 / 12
                                                                            Circuitry 224            Analysis                                 228
 Fingerprint                    Fingerprinting Circuitry                                             Circuitry
 Database                                                 214                             220                  219                218
216
                                                                                                                           233
                                          Probability Evaluation Circuitry                Statistical Model
 Knowledge                                                                                                           232
  Database
236
                             Transaction Processing Circuitry                               User Interface Circuitry
                                                                         234                                         238
                                                                                                                                        200
                                                                   Figure 2

<removed-date>
                                       3 / 12
                                                          304
                                S PA5076
<removed-apn>
                      306
                                                                   302
                                   S PA5076         308
                                                  309
              OCR 1              OCR 2                             FINGERPRINT
               SPA5876             SPA5076                 S PA5076
              312                314                                            316
                                                                   317
                310
                                                            319
                             RULES-BASED ANALYSIS
                                                            320
                              BEHAVIORAL ANALYSIS
                HISTORICAL                                         VEHICLE
                   TOLL                                           ATTRIBUTE
                DATABASE       VEHICLE ATTRIBUTE                  DATABASE
               228                 ANALYSIS                 322           230
                                                          318
                             PROBABILITY EVALUATION
                                                          324
                                   SPA5076
                                                   326
                                       Figure 3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                       5 / 12
              500
                    Receive a candidate license plate
                                                                  502
                    identification.
<removed-apn>
                    Receive a confidence level associated with
                                                                504
                    the candidate license plate identification.
                    Perform a behavioral analysis of
                    geospatial vehicle position data related to 506
                    the candidate license plate identification.
                    Determine an overall confidence level for
                                                                  508
                    the candidate license plate identification.
                    Determine the overall confidence level
                    using a statistical model of random           510
                    variables.
                                       Figure 5

<removed-date>
                                                    6 / 12
              600
                    Receive an image including a license plate of a vehicle at a toll
                                                                                          602
                    collection point.
<removed-apn>
                    Perform a first OCR process on the image to determine a candidate
                                                                                      604
                    license plate string.
                    Determine a first candidate license plate identification associated
                                                                                          606
                    with the candidate license plate string.
                    Determine a first OCR confidence level for the first candidate
                                                                                          608
                    license plate identification.
                    Perform a second OCR process on the                                   610
                    image to determine a second candidate license plate string.
                    Determine a second candidate license plate identification associated
                                                                                         612
                    with the second candidate license plate string.
                    Determine a second OCR confidence level for the second
                                                                                          614
                    candidate license plate identification.
                    Perform a fingerprint process on the license plate of the image to
                                                                                          616
                    determine a license plate fingerprint.
                    Compare the license plate fingerprint to stored license plate
                                                                                          618
                    fingerprints to determine a closest license plate fingerprint.
                    Determine a fingerprint candidate license plate identification
                                                                                          620
                    from the closest license plate fingerprint.
                    Determine a fingerprint confidence level for the fingerprint candidate
                                                                                           622
                    license plate identification.
                                                    Figure 6

<removed-date>
                                                     7 / 12
              700
                    Search for a prior toll event occurring at a prior toll collection point
                    having a license plate identification matching the candidate license       702
                    plate identification.
<removed-apn>
                    Determine a current travel time from a time difference between the
                                                                                               704
                    current toll event and the prior toll event.
                    Determine an average travel time between the current toll collection
                                                                                         706
                    point and the prior toll collection point.
                    Determine a degree of difference between the current travel
                                                                                               708
                    time and the average travel time.
                    Alter the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate
                                                                                               710
                    identification.
                                                     Figure 7

<removed-date>
                                                     8 / 12
              800
                    Search for historical toll events occuring at the current toll collection
                    point with a license plate identification matching the candidate          802
                    license plate identification.
<removed-apn>
                    Determine a historical daily toll event pattern including a daily toll
                                                                                             804
                    time range for the license plate identification.
                    Determine whether the current toll evenet occurred within the daily toll
                                                                                            806
                    time range.
                    Alter the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate
                                                                                             808
                    identification.
                                                     Figure 8

<removed-date>
                                                    9 / 12
              900
                    Receive a physical vehicle attribute of the vehicle in the image.    902
<removed-apn>
                    Determine whether the physical vehicle attribute maches a pre-
                    determined vehicle attribute associated with the candidate license   904
                    plate identification.
                    Determine a physical vehicle attribute matching confidence level.    906
                    Alter the overall confidence level for the candidate license plate
                                                                                         908
                    identification.
                                                    Figure 9

<removed-date>
                                                   10 / 12
              1000
                     Generate a derivative candidate license plate string from the
                                                                                          1002
                     candidate license plate string.
<removed-apn>
                     Determine a derivative candidate license plate identification
                                                                                          1004
                     responsive to the candidate license plate string.
                     Determine a derivative confidence level for the derivative candidate
                                                                                          1006
                     license plate identification.
                     Perform the behavioral analysis on the derivative candidate license
                                                                                         1008
                     plate identification.
                     Determine a derivative overall confidence level for the derivative
                                                                                          1010
                     candidate license plate identification.
                                                   Figure 10

<removed-date>
                                                  11 / 12
              1100
                     Determine an intermediate confidence level for the candidate license
                     plate identification responsive to the first OCR confidence level, the 1102
                     second OCR confidence level, and/or the fingerprint confidence level.
<removed-apn>
                     Determine that the intermediate confidence level does not exceed
                                                                                          1104
                     an intermediate confidence level threshold.
                     Perform the behavioral analysis on the candidate license plate
                     identification and determine the overall confidence level for the
                     candidate license plate identification responsive to the intermediate 1106
                     confidence level not exceeding the intermediate confidence level
                     threshold.
                     Determine that the overall confidence level does not exceed a
                                                                                          1108
                     minimum confidence threshold.
                     Display the image on a graphical user interface.                     1110
                     Receive an external license plate identification for the image via the
                                                                                            1112
                     graphical user interface.
                     Update a license plate database with the external license plate
                                                                                          1114
                     identification.
                                                   Figure 11

                                                                                <removed-apn>                          <removed-date>
IMAGE REVIEW                                              IMAGE REVIEW
      User 1
               Image:
                                                                    1202   Front Plate Image:
                                                                                                               1204
                                                                                S PA5076
                                                                           Rear Plate Image:
                                                                                                               1206
                                                                                S PA5076
                                                                                                                             12 / 12
                        Enter Plate Identification:                        Suggested Plate Identification:
                                                       SUBMIT                                                1210
                         SPA5076                                              SPA5876
                 1208
                                                                           CORRECT?
                                                                                                                      1212
                                                                                YES                 NO
               1200
                                                      Figure 12

