                                        ABSTRACT
Described herein are heme-binding compositions and methods relating to their use, e.g.
methods of treatment of, for example, sepsis and rhabdomyolysis.

           ENGINEERED HEME-BINDING COMPOSITIONS AND USES THEREOF
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/825,707
filed May 21. 2013, is a divisional of AU 2014268603, which is the national phase of
PCT/US2014/038945, the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.
                                           SEQUENCE LISTING
[0002]        The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted
electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII
copy. created on May 21, 2014, is named 002806-076881-PCTSL.txt and is 46,176 bytes in size
                                            TECHNICAL FIELD
[0003]        The technology described herein relates to methods and compositions relating to the
treatment of heme and/or myoglobin-associated disease and disorders, e.g. sepsis, rhabdomyolysis,
crush injury, and the like.
                                              BACKGROUND
[0004]        Sepsis is a lethal condition that is often associated with a serious microbial infection.
However, while many hypotheses have been put forward, the exact cause of septic shock is not agreed
upon and therapeutics based on targeting the source of these various hypotheses have generally failed
in (or prior to) clinical trials. The current treatment generally includes administration of antibiotics.
Past clinical trials have focused on limiting the immune systems response to microbial infections,
thereby reducing the "Cytokine Storm" that has been hypothesized to be the causative agent of sepsis.
In addition, people have looked to use dialysis to remove cytokines.
                                                 SUMMARY
[0005]        Described herein are methods and compositions relating to the treatment of heme and/or
myoglobin-associated disease and disorders, e.g. sepsis and rhabdomyolysis. The technology
described herein is based upon the recognition that excess free heme in the blood can play a role in the
progression of sepsis. In a septic patient or animal, microbial infections can lead to a large increase in
Red Blood Cell (RBS) lysis, which in turn leads to a significant increase in soluble free heme in the
blood stream. This increase overwhelms the endogenous levels of hemopexin, which normally
scavenges endogenous levels of heme. leading to dangerously high levels of heme. Excess heme in
the blood provides microbial pathogens with a readily available source of iron, which can be limiting
agent in microbial growth and hemoglobin and heme may substantially contribute to microbe-induced
inflammation when bacterial or viral infection coexists with blood.
[0006]        As demonstrated herein, hemopexin fusion proteins can be used to lower the level of free
heme in the blood of a subject, e.g. to treat sepsis. In one aspect, described herein is a heme-binding
molecule and/or composition comprising a hemopexin domain conjugated to a Fe domain. In some
                                                        I

    WO 2014/190040                                                               PCT/US2014/038945
embodiments, the hemopexin domain is a polypeptide comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In
some embodiments, the hemopexin domain is a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In
some embodiments, the composition has the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ ID NO: 5.
[00071       In one aspect, described herein is a method of reducing the level of free heme in the blood
of a subject, the method comprising contacting the blood of the subject with a heme-binding molecule
and/or composition described herein. In some embodiments, the method further comprises removing a
portion of the subject's blood prior to the contacting step and performing the contacting step
extracorporeally and then returning the portion of the subject's blood to the subject. In some
embodiments, the heme-binding molecule and/or composition is bound to a solid substrate of an
extracorporeal device. In some embodiments, the solid substrate is a filter or affinity column. In some
embodiments, the heme-binding molecule and/or composition can be administered to a subject as a
therapeutic agent.
[0008]       In one aspect, described herein is a method of producing a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition, the method comprising culturing a cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding a heme
binding molecule and/or composition described herein under conditions suitable for the production of
proteins and purifying the heme-binding molecule and/or composition by affinity purification with a
stabilization domain binding reagent. In some embodiments, the cell is a microbial cell or a
mammalian cell.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0009]       Fig. 1 depicts an image of an SDS gel showing the purity of isolated Fc-Hemopexin
fusions.
[0010]       Fig. 2 depicts a graph of Fc-Hemopexin and Fc-Hemopexin-NT binding to free hemin.
[0011]       Fig. 3 depicts a graph of the heme binding of Fc fusions with variants of the N-terminal
domain of Hemopexin.
[0012]       Fig. 4 depicts a graph of heme binding of Fc Fusions with variants of Full Length
Hemopexin was also determined.
[0013]       Fig. 5 depicts a graph of FcHemopexin variants binding to myoglobin.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0014]       As described herein, the inventors have discovered that certain hemopexin fusion proteins
can be used to binding free heme in blood. Accordingly, provided herein are methods and
compositions relating to these fusion proteins and their use for reducing heme levels in the blood, e.g.
for the treatment of sepsis.
[00151       In one aspect, the invention described herein relates to a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition comprising a hemopexin domain conjugated to a Fc domain. In some embodiments, the
composition can be a multimer. As used herein, "hemopexin domain" refers to a domain or portion of
a polypeptide composition described herein comprising a hemopexin polypeptide or a fragment
                                                    2

    WO 2014/190040                                                               PCT/US2014/038945
thereof. "Hemopexin" (also referred to as "haemopexin," "HPX," or "beta-IB-glycoprotein" refers to
a protein with the highest known affinity for heme and which interacts with the LRP 1 receptor when
complexed with heme. The sequences of hemopexin for a variety of species are known, e.g. human
hemopexin (NCBI Gene ID: 3263 (SEQ ID NO: 1; NCBI Ref Seq: NP_00604; polypeptide)(SEQ ID
NO: 6; NCBI Ref Seq: NM_000613; mRNA).
[00161       A hemopexin polypeptide can comprise SEQ ID NO: 1 or a homolog, variant, and/or
functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin polypeptide can comprise amino
acids 24 to 462 of SEQ ID NO: 1 (i.e. the mature hemopexin polypeptide with the signal peptide
sequence removed), or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments,
a hemopexin domain can comprise amino acid 24 to amino acid 256 of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a homolog,
variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin domain can
comprise amino acid 27 to amino acid 213 of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a homolog, variant, and/or functional
fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise amino acid 1 to amino
acid 213, 220, 233, or 256 of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment
thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise amino acid 24 to amino acid 213,
220, 233, or 256 of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some
embodiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise amino acid 27 to amino acid 213, 220, 233, or 256
of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a
hemopexin polypeptide as described herein can be a homolog, derivative, variant, conservative
substitution variant, deletion mutant, insertion mutant, or functional fragment of the amino acid
sequences described above herein. In some embdoiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise a
mutation wherein the residues corresponding to residues 220-226 of SEQ ID NO: 1 have been
replaced with the sequence GSGS (SEQ ID NO: 18).
[00171       In some embodiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise amino acid 24 to amino acid
256 of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some
embodiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise amino acid 27 to amino acid 213 of SEQ ID NO: 2
or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin
domain can comprise amino acid I to amino acid 213, 220, 233, or 256 of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a
homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin domain
can comprise amino acid 24 to amino acid 213, 220, 233, or 256 of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a homolog,
variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin domain can
comprise amino acid 27 to amino acid 213, 220, 233, or 256 of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a homolog, variant,
and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a hemopexin polypeptide as described
herein can be a homolog, derivative, variant, conservative substitution variant, deletion mutant,
insertion mutant, or functional fragment of the amino acid sequences described above herein. In some
                                                   3

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
embdoiments, a hemopexin domain can comprise a mutation wherein the residues corresponding to
residues 220-226 of SEQ ID NO: 2 have been replaced with the sequence GSGS (SEQ ID NO: 18).
[0018]        As used herein, a "functional fragment" of, e.g. SEQ ID NO: 1 is a fragment or segment
of that polypeptide which can bind heme at least 10% as strongly as the reference polypeptide (i.e.
SEQ ID NO: 1), e.g. at least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 75%,
at least 90%, at least 100% as strongly, or more strongly. Assays for determining heme
concentrations and binding of a protein to heme are well known in the art and include, by way of non
limiting example, spectroscopic titrations using dithionite, e.g. as described in Airola et al.
Biochemistry 2001 49:43217-4338; the assay described in US Patent No. 4,340,668; or any of the
assays described in Sinclair et al. Current Protocols in Toxicology 2001; unit 8.3. Each of the
foregoing references is incorporated by referenc herein in its entirety. A functional fragment can
comprise conservative substitutions of the sequences disclosed herein. In some embodiments, heme
binding can include myoglobin binding activity.
[0019]        Variants of the isolated peptides described herein (e.g. SEQ ID NOs: 1-5) can be obtained
by mutations of native nucleotide or amino acid sequences, for example SEQ ID NO: 1 or a
nucleotide sequence encoding a peptide comprising SEQ ID NO: 1. A "variant," as referred to herein,
is a polypeptide substantially homologous to an hemopexin polypeptide described herein (e.g. SEQ ID
NOs: 1 and 2), but which has an amino acid sequence different from that of one of the sequences
described herein because of one or a plurality of deletions, insertions or substitutions.
[0020]        A homolog of a hemopexin polypeptide as described herein can also comprise amino acid
sequences that are homologous to the regions of hemopexin comprised by the hemopexin polypeptide
described herein.
[0021]        The variant amino acid or DNA sequence preferably is at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least
80%, at least 90%, at least 91 %, at least 92%, at least 93%, at least 94%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at
least 97%, at least 98%, at least 99%, or more, identical to the sequence from which it is derived
(referred to herein as an "original" sequence). The degree of homology (percent identity) between an
original and a mutant sequence can be determined, for example, by comparing the two sequences
using freely available computer programs commonly employed for this purpose on the world wide
web.The variant amino acid or DNA sequence preferably is at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80%, at
least 90%, at least 91 %, at least 92%, at least 93%, at least 94%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least
97%, at least 98%, at least 99%, or more, similar to the sequence from which it is derived (referred to
herein as an "original" sequence). The degree of similarity (percent similarity) between an original
and a mutant sequence can be determined, for example, by using a similarity matrix. Similarity
matrices are well known in the art and a number of tools for comparing two sequences using
similarity matrices are freely available online, e.g. BLASTp (available on the world wide web at
http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov).
                                                     4

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
[00221       Alterations of the original amino acid sequence can be accomplished by any of a number
of known techniques known to one of skill in the art. Mutations can be introduced, for example, at
particular loci by synthesizing oligonucleotides containing a mutant sequence, flanked by restriction
sites enabling ligation to fragments of the native sequence. Following ligation, the resulting
reconstructed sequence encodes an analog having the desired amino acid insertion, substitution, or
deletion. Alternatively, oligonucleotide-directed site-specific mutagenesis procedures can be
employed to provide an altered nucleotide sequence having particular codons altered according to the
substitution, deletion, or insertion required. Techniques for making such alterations include those
disclosed by Walder et al. (Gene 42:133, 1986); Bauer et al. (Gene 37:73, 1985); Craik
(BioTechniques, January 1985, 12-19); Smith et al. (Genetic Engineering: Principles and Methods,
Plenum Press, 1981); and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,518,584 and 4,737,462, which are herein incorporated by
reference in their entireties. In some embodiments, an isolated peptide as described herein can be
chemically synthesized and mutations can be incorporated as part of the chemical synthesis process.
[0023]       Variants can comprise conservatively substituted sequences, meaning that one or more
amino acid residues of an original peptide are replaced by different residues, and that the
conservatively substituted peptide retains a desired biological activity, i.e., the ability to bind heme,
that is essentially equivalent to that of the original peptide. Examples of conservative substitutions
include substitutions that do not change the overall or local hydrophobic character, substitutions that
do not change the overall or local charge, substitutions by residues of equivalent sidechain size, or
substitutions by sidechains with similar reactive groups.
[0024]       A given amino acid can be replaced by a residue having similar physiochemical
characteristics, e.g., substituting one aliphatic residue for another (such as Ile, Val, Leu, or Ala for one
another), or substitution of one polar residue for another (such as between Lys and Arg; Glu and Asp;
or Gln and Asn). Other such conservative substitutions, e.g., substitutions of entire regions having
similar hydrophobicity characteristics or substitutions of residues with similar sidechain volume are
well known. Isolated peptides comprising conservative amino acid substitutions can be tested in any
one of the assays described herein to confirm that a desired activity, e.g. the ability to bind heme, is
retained, as determined by the assays described elsewhere herein.
[00251       Amino acids can be grouped according to similarities in the properties of their side chains
(in A. L. Lehninger, in Biochemistry, second ed., pp. 73-75, Worth Publishers, New York (1975)): (1)
non-polar: Ala (A), Val (V), Leu (L), Ile (I), Pro (P), Phe (F), Trp (W), Met (M); (2) uncharged polar:
Gly (G), Ser (S), Thr (T), Cys (C), Tyr (Y), Asn (N), Gln (Q); (3) acidic: Asp (D), Glu (E); (4) basic:
Lys (K), Arg (R), His (H). Alternatively, naturally occurring residues can be divided into groups
based on common side-chain properties: (1) hydrophobic: Norleucine, Met, Ala, Val, Leu, Ile, Phe,
Trp; (2) neutral hydrophilic: Cys, Ser, Thr, Asn, Gln, Ala, Tyr, His, Pro, Gly; (3) acidic: Asp, Glu; (4)
basic: His, Lys, Arg; (5) residues that influence chain orientation: Gly, Pro; (6) aromatic: Trp, Tyr,
                                                      5

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
Phe, Pro, His, or hydroxyproline. Non-conservative substitutions will entail exchanging a member of
one of these classes for another class.
[00261        Particularly preferred conservative substitutions for use in the variants described herein
are as follows: Ala into Gly or into Ser; Arg into Lys; Asn into Gln or into His; Asp into Glu or into
Asn; Cys into Ser; Gln into Asn; Glu into Asp; Gly into Ala or into Pro; His into Asn or into Gln; Ile
into Leu or into Val; Leu into Ile or into Val; Lys into Arg, into Gln or into Glu; Met into Leu, into
Tyr or into Ile; Phe into Met, into Leu or into Tyr; Ser into Thr; Thr into Ser; Trp into Tyr or into Phe;
Tyr into Phe or into Trp; and/or Phe into Val, into Tyr, into Ile or into Leu. In general, conservative
substitutions encompass residue exchanges with those of similar physicochemical properties (i.e.
substitution of a hydrophobic residue for another hydrophobic amino acid).
[00271        Any cysteine residue not involved in maintaining the proper conformation of the isolated
peptide as described herein can also be substituted, generally with seine, to improve the oxidative
stability of the molecule and prevent aberrant crosslinking. Conversely, cysteine bond(s) can be added
to the isolated peptide as described herein to improve its stability or facilitate multimerization.
[0028]        In some embodiments, a functional fragment of hemopexin can comprise from about
amino acid 24 to about amino acid 256 of SEQ ID NO: 1. In some embodiments, a functional
fragment of hemopexin comprise amino acid 24 to amino acid 256 of SEQ ID NO: 1, i.e. SEQ ID
NO: 2. In some embodiments, a functional fragment of hemopexin can be a polypeptide having the
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
[0029]        As used herein, "a Fc domain" refers to domain, part, or portion of a polypeptide
comprising an Fc polypeptide. As used herein, a "Fc polypeptide" refers to the region of an antibody
that interacts with Fc receptors and certain components of the complement system. The Fc region for
a given type of antibody will be constant for all antibodies of that type in an individual, whereas the
Fab region of the antibody will vary, providing antigen specificity. In some embodiments, a Fc
polypeptide can be a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7 or a or a homolog, variant,
and/or functional fragment thereof. In some embodiments, a Fc polypeptide can be a polypeptide
having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 or a or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof.
In some embodiments, a Fc polypeptide can be a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 17
or a or a homolog, variant, and/or functional fragment thereof. In the context of a FC polypeptide, a
functional fragment is a fragment or segment of that polypeptide which can bind or be bound by Fc
receptors and/or Clq at least 10% as strongly as the reference polypeptide (i.e. SEQ ID NO: 7), e.g. at
least 10%, at least 20%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 75%, at least 90%, at least
100% as strongly, or more strongly. Assays for the binding of a ligand and its receptor are well
known in the art.
[0030]        In such embodiments, the Fc region can comprise at least one region selected from the
group consisting of a hinge region, a CH2 region, a CH3 region, and any combinations thereof. By
                                                    6

    WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
way of example, in some embodiments, a CH2 region can be excluded from the portion of the Fc
region as the second domain. In one embodiment, Fc region comprised comprises a hinge region, a
CH2 domain and a CH3 domain.
[0031]        In some embodiments, the Fc region can be can be used to facilitate expression and
purification of the engineered molecules and compositions described herein. The N terminal Fc has
been shown to improve expression levels, protein folding and secretion of the fusion partner. In
addition, the Fc has a staphylococcal Protein A binding site, which can be used for one-step
purification protein A affinity chromatography. See Lo KM et al. (1998) Protein Eng. 11: 495-500.
Further, the Protein A binding site can be used to facilitate binding of Protein A-expressing or Protein
G-expressing microbes in the absence of calcium ions. Further, such Fc regions have a molecule
weight above a renal threshold of about 45kDa, thus reducing the possibility of engineered molecules
being removed by glomerular filtration. Additionally, the Fc region can allow dimerization of two
engineered heme-bindinding domain molecules to form a multimeric complex, such as a dimer.
[0032]        In some embodiments, an Fc region or a fragment thereof can comprise at least one
mutation, e.g., to modify the performance of the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions. For example, in some embodiments, a half-life of the engineered heme-binding
molecules and/or compositions described herein can be increased, e.g., by mutating an amino acid
lysine (K) at the residue 224 of SEQ ID NO. 5 to alanine (A). Other mutations, e.g., located at the
interface between the CH2 and CH3 domains shown in Hinton et al (2004) JBiol Chem. 279:6213
6216 and Vaccaro C. et al. (2005) Nat Biotechnol. 23: 1283-1288, can be also used to increase the
half-life of the IgG 1 and thus the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions.
[0033]        In some embodiments, the Fc polypeptide can comprise a N297D mutation, which results
in an aglycosylated Fc polypeptide.
[0034]        In some embodiments, the Fc polypeptide is a polypeptide that can be bound by an Fc
receptor and internalized into a cell, e.g. into subcellular compartments. This can remove the bound
heme from the blood and direct it into cellular recycling pathways. The Heme-Hemopexin complex is
typically removed form the blood stream by CD91 mediated endocytosis. The Fc-Hemopexin
molecule can increase this clearance rate by taking advantage of endocytosis and recycling of Fc
containing proteins via its interaction with Fc receptors.
[00351        In one aspect, described herein is an engineered heme-binding molecule comprising a
hemopexin domain and a linker, substrate-binding domain, and/or microbe-binding molecule
conjugated thereto. As used herein, "engineered" refers to the aspect of having been manipulated by
the hand of man. For example, a polynucleotide is considered to be "engineered" when two or more
sequences, that are not linked together in that order in nature, are manipulated by the hand of man to
be directly linked to one another in the engineered polynucleotide. For example, in some
embodiments of the present invention, an engineered molecule comprises multiple domains that are
                                                     7

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
each found in nature, but are not found in the same transcript in nature. As is common practice and is
understood by those in the art, progeny and copies of an engineered polynucleotide are typically still
referred to as "engineered" even though the actual manipulation was performed on a prior entity.
[0036]       Multiple domains of the heme-binding composition and/or molecule can be linked
together by a linker. Further, the heme-binding composition and/or molecule can be conjugated to a
carrier scaffold via linker. Accordingly, as used in this disclosre, the term "linker" means a moiety
that connects two parts of a compound or molecule. Linkers typically comprise a direct bond or an
atom such as oxygen or sulfur, a unit such as NR', C(O), C(O)O, OC(O)O, C(O)NH, NHC(O)O, NH,
SS, SO, SO 2 , SO 3 , and SO 2NH, or a chain of atoms, such as substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, arylalkyl, arylalkenyl,
arylalkynyl, heteroarylalkyl, heteroarylalkenyl, heteroarylalkynyl, heterocyclylalkyl,
heterocyclylalkenyl, heterocyclylalkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocyclyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
alkylarylalkyl, alkylarylalkenyl, alkylarylalkynyl, alkenylarylalkyl, alkenylarylalkenyl,
alkenylarylalkynyl, alkynylarylalkyl, alkynylarylalkenyl, alkynylarylalkynyl, alkylheteroarylalkyl,
alkylheteroarylalkenyl, alkylheteroarylalkynyl, alkenylheteroarylalkyl, alkenylheteroarylalkenyl,
alkenylheteroarylalkynyl, alkynylheteroarylalkyl, alkynylheteroarylalkenyl, alkynylheteroarylalkynyl,
alkylheterocyclylalkyl, alkylheterocyclylalkenyl, alkylhererocyclylalkynyl, alkenylheterocyclylalkyl,
alkenylheterocyclylalkenyl, alkenylheterocyclylalkynyl, alkynylheterocyclylalkyl,
alkynylheterocyclylalkenyl, alkynylheterocyclylalkynyl, alkylaryl, alkenylaryl, alkynylaryl,
alkylheteroaryl, alkenylheteroaryl, alkynylhereroaryl, where one or more methylenes can be
interrupted or terminated by 0, S, S(O), SO2 , NH, C(O)N(R) 2, C(O), cleavable linking group,
substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocyclic; where R1 is hydrogen, acyl, aliphatic or substituted aliphatic. In some embodiments, the
linker can be a non-covalent association (e.g., by non-covalent interactins) of the two parts of a
molecule being conjugated together. Some exemplary non-covalent on ionic interactions, van der
Waals interactions, dipole-dipole interactions, hydrogen bonds, electrostatic interactions, and/or shape
recognition interactions.
[00371       In some embodiments, the linker can comprise at least one cleavable linking group. A
cleavable linking group is one which is sufficiently stable under one set of conditions, but which is
cleaved under a different set of conditions to release the two parts the linker is holding together. In
some embodiments, the cleavable linking group is cleaved at least 10 times or more, e.g., at least 100
times faster under a first reference condition (which can, e.g., be selected to mimic or represent a
microbe-infected condition, such as a microbe-infected tissue or body fluid, or a microbial biofilm
occurring in an environment) than under a second reference condition (which can, e.g., be selected to
mimic or represent non-infected conditions, e.g., found in the non-infected blood or serum, or in an
non-infected environment).
                                                    8

    WO 2014/190040                                                                    PCT/US2014/038945
[00381        Cleavable linking groups are susceptible to cleavage agents, e.g., hydrolysis, pH, redox
potential or the presence of degradative molecules. Generally, cleavage agents are more prevalent or
found at higher levels or activities at a site of interest (e.g. a microbial infection) than in non-infected
area. Examples of such degradative agents include: redox agents which are selected for particular
substrates or which have no substrate specificity, including, e.g., oxidative or reductive enzymes or
reductive agents such as mercaptans, present in cells, that can degrade a redox cleavable linking group
by reduction; esterases; amidases; endosomes or agents that can create an acidic environment, e.g.,
those that result in a pH of five or lower; enzymes that can hydrolyze or degrade an acid cleavable
linking group by acting as a general acid, peptidases (which can be substrate specific) and proteases,
and phosphatases.
[0039]        A linker can include a cleavable linking group that is cleavable by a particular enzyme.
The type of cleavable linking group incorporated into a linker can depend on the cell, organ, or tissue
to be targeted.    In some embodiments, cleavable linking group is cleaved at least 1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 3,
4, 5, 10, 25, 50, or 100 times faster under a first reference condition (or under in vitro conditions
selected to mimic a microbe-infected condition, such as a microbe-infected tissue or body fluid, or a
microbial biofilm occurring in an environment or on a working surface) than under a second reference
condition (or under in vitro conditions selected to mimic non-infected conditions, e.g., found in the
non-infected blood or serum, or in an non-infected environment). In some embodiments, the
cleavable linking group is cleaved by less than 90%, 80%, 70%, 60%, 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, 10%,
5%, or 1% in the non-infected conditions, e.g., found in the non-infected blood or serum, or in an
non-infected environment, as compared to a microbe-infected condition, such as a microbe-infected
tissue or body fluid, or a microbial biofilm occurring in an environment or on a working surface.
[0040]        Exemplary cleavable linking groups include, but are not limited to, hydrolyzable linkers,
redox cleavable linking groups (e.g., -S-S- and -C(R) 2 -S-S-, wherein R is H or C1 -C6 alkyl and at least
one R is C1 -C6 alkyl such as CH 3 or CH 2 CH 3 ); phosphate-based cleavable linking groups (e.g., -0
P(O)(OR)-0-, -0-P(S)(OR)-0-, -0-P(S)(SR)-0-, -S-P(O)(OR)-0-, -0-P(O)(OR)-S-, -S-P(O)(OR)-S-,
-O-P(S)(ORk)-S-, -S-P(S)(OR)-0-, -0-P(O)(R)-0-, -0-P(S)(R)-0-, -S-P(O)(R)-0-, -S-P(S)(R)-0-,
S-P(O)(R)-S-, -0-P(S)( R)-S-, . -0-P(O)(OH)-0-, -0-P(S)(OH)-0-, -0-P(S)(SH)-0-, -S-P(O)(OH)
0-, -0-P(O)(OH)-S-, -S-P(O)(OH)-S-, -0-P(S)(OH)-S-, -S-P(S)(OH)-0-, -0-P(O)(H)-0-, -0
P(S)(H)-0-, -S-P(O)(H)-0-, -S-P(S)(H)-0-, -S-P(O)(H)-S-, and -0-P(S)(H)-S-, wherein R is
optionally substituted linear or branched C1-C1 o alkyl); acid celavable linking groups (e.g.,
hydrazones, esters, and esters of amino acids, -C=NN- and -OC(O)-); ester-based cleavable linking
groups (e.g., -C(0)0-); peptide-based cleavable linking groups, (e.g., linking groups that are cleaved
by enzymes such as peptidases and proteases in cells, e.g., - NHCHRAC(O)NHCHRBC(O)-, where                RA
and RB are the R groups of the two adjacent amino acids). A peptide based cleavable linking group
comprises two or more amino acids. In some embodiments, the peptide-based cleavage linkage
                                                       9

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
comprises the amino acid sequence that is the substrate for a peptidase or a protease.    In some
embodiments, an acid cleavable linking group is cleavable in an acidic environment with a pH of
about 6.5 or lower (e.g., about 6.5, 6.0, 5.5, 5.0, or lower), or by agents such as enzymes that can act
as a general acid.
[0041]        Without limitations, the linker can be selected to provide a desired function or property to
the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions disclosed herein. For example, the linker can be
selected or configured according to a specific need or use of the heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions. By way of example only, in some embodiments, linker can be selected or configured to
have a sufficient length and flexibility such that it can allow for the microbe-binding domain to orient
in a desired orientation with respect to a microbe. In some embodiments, the linker can be selected or
configured to allow multimerization of at least two engineered heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions (e.g., to from a di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, hexa- or higher multimeric complex) while
retaining biological activity (e.g., heme-binding activity). In some embodiments, the linker can be
selected or configured to inteact with a second domain (e.g. an Fc domain) to allow multimerization
of at least two engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions (e.g., to from a di-, tri-, tetra-,
penta-, hexa- or higher multimeric complex) while retaining heme-binding activity.
[0042]        In some embodiments, the linker can be selected or configured to facilitate expression and
purification of the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions described herein. In some
embodiments, the linker can be selected or configured to provide a recognition site for a protease or a
nuclease. In addition, the linker can be non-reactive with the functional components of the engineered
molecule described herein. For example, minimal hydrophobic or charged character to react with a
domain of the heme-binding molecule and/or composition. In some embodiments, the linker can be
part of a domain of the heme-binding molecule and/or composition.
[0043]        In some embodiments, the linekr can be a peptide or a nucleic acid. In some
embodiments, the peptide linker can vary from about I to about 1000 amino acids long, from about 10
to about 500 amino acids long, from about 30 to about 300 amino acids long, or from about 50 to
about 150 amino acids long. In some embodiments, the peptidyl linker is from about 1 amino acid to
about 20 amino acids long. In some embodiments, the nucleic acid linker can vary from about 1 to
about 1000 nucleotides long, from about 10 to about 500 nucleotides long, from about 30 to about 300
nucleotides, or from about 50 to about 150 nucleotides. Longer or shorter linker sequences can be
also used for the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions described herein.
[0044]        The peptidyl linker can be configured to have a sequence comprising at least one of the
amino acids selected from the group consisting of glycine (Gly), seine (Ser), asparagine (Asn),
threonine (Thr), methionine (Met) or alanine (Ala). Such amino acids are generally used to provide
flexibility of a linker. However, in some embodiments, other uncharged polar amino acids (e.g., Gln,
Cys or Tyr), nonpolar amino acids (e.g., Val, Leu, Ile, Pro, Phe, and Trp). In alternative embodiments,
                                                      10

     WO 2014/190040                                                                    PCT/US2014/038945
polar amino acids can be added to modulate the flexibility of a linker. One of skill in the art can
control flexibility of a linker by varying the types and numbers of residues in the linker. See, e.g.,
Perham, 30 Biochem. 8501 (1991); Wriggers et al, 80 Biopolymers 736 (2005).
[00451        In some embodiments, the peptidyl linker can comprise form 1 to about 25 amino acids,
i.e., one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, egiht, nine, ten, eleven, tweleve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen,
sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, or
twenty-five amino acids. In some embodiments, the peptidyl linker linking the first and second
domain comprises the amino acid sequence HHHHHH (SEQ ID NO: 34).
[00461        In some embodiments, when the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions comprise
an Fc region, the linker linking the heme binding and the Fc domain is not a bond or a peptide.
[00471        In some embodiments, the linker is a bond.
[00481        In some embodiments, the linker conjugating a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition to a carrier scaffold is a polyethylene glycol. Exemplary PEGs for use as linkers include,
but are not limited to, PEG-2K, PEG-5K, PEG-10K, PEG-12K, PEG-15K, PEG-20K, PEG-40K, and
the like.
[0049]        In some embodiments, the linker can be albumin, transferrin or a fragment thereof.
Without limitations, such linkers can be used to extend the plasma half-life of the engineered heme
binding molecules and/or compositions. Thus, engineered heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions can be useful for in vivo administration. See Schmidt SR (2009) Curr Opin Drug
Discov Devel. 12: 284. In some embodiments, the linker can be a physical substrate, e.g.,
microparticles or magnetic microbes.
[00501        A linker between a first domain and a second domain can provide sufficient distance
between the first and the second domain to allow the first domain to interact with heme. Accordingly,
in some embodiments, the distance between the first domain and the second domain can range from
about 50 angstroms to about 5000 angstroms, from about 100 angstroms to about 2500 angstroms, or
from about 200 angstroms to about 1000 angstroms.
[00511        The linkers can be of any shape. For example, the linker can be linear, folded, branched.
In some embodiments, the linker can adopt the shape of a carrier scaffold. In some embodiments, the
linkers can be linear. In some embodiments, the linkers can be folded. In some embodiments, the
linkers can be branched. For branched linkers, each branch of a molecule can comprise at least one
heme-binding domain. In other embodiments, the linker adopts the shape of the physical substrate.
[0052]        In some embodiments, the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can
comprise a functional group for conjugating the hemopexin domain to another molecule, a
composition, a physical substrate, and the like. For example, a second domain can comprise a
functional group for covalently linking the heme-binding domain with another molecule molecule, a
composition, a physical substrate, or the like. Some exemplary functional groups for conjugation
                                                       11

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
include, but are not limited to, an amino group, a N-substituted amino group, a carboxyl group, a
carbonyl group, an acid anhydride group, an aldehyde group, a hydroxyl group, an epoxy group, a
thiol, a disulfide group, an alkenyl group, a hydrazine group, a hydrazide group, a semicarbazide
group, a thiosemicarbazide group, one partner of a binding pair, an amide group, an aryl group, an
ester group, an ether group, a glycidyl group, a halo group, a hydride group, an isocyanate group, an
urea group, an urethane group, and any combinations thereof.
[0053]        In some embodiments, the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions disclosed herein
can be immobilized on a carrier scaffold for a variety of applications or purposes. For example, the
engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can be immobilized on a carrier scaffold for
easy handling during usage, e.g., for isolation, observation or microscopic imaging.
[0054]        The attachment of the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions disclosed herein to a
surface of the carrier scaffold can be performed with multiple approaches, for example, by direct
cross-linking the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions to the carrier scaffold
surface; cross-linking the engineered heme-binding molecule to the carrier scaffold surface via a
nucleic acid matrix (e.g., DNA matrix or DNA/oligonucleotide origami structures) for orientation and
concentration to increase detection sensitivity; cross-linking the heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions to the carrier scaffold surface via a dendrimer-like structure (e.g., PEG/Chitin-structure)
to increase detection sensitivity; attracting heme-binding molecules and/or compositions coated
magnetic microbeads to the carrier scaffold surface with a focused magnetic field gradient applied to
the scarrier scaffold surface, attaching an engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions to
a carrier scaffold via biotin-avidin or biotin-avidin-like interaction, or any other art-recognized
methods.
[00551        Without limitations, any conjugation chemistry known in the art for conjugating two
molecules or different parts of a composition together can be used for conjugating at least one
engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions to a carrier scaffold. Exemplary coupling
molecules and/or functional groups for conjugating at least one engineered heme-binding molecules
and/or compositions to a substrate include, but are not limited to, a polyethylene glycol (PEG, NH 2
PEGx-COOH which can have a PEG spacer arm of various lengths X, where 1 < X < 100, e.g., PEG
2K, PEG-5K, PEG-10K, PEG-12K, PEG-15K, PEG-20K, PEG-40K, and the like), maleimide
conjugation agent, PASylation, HESylation, Bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) suberate conjugation agent, DNA
conjugation agent, peptide conjugation agent, silane conjugation agent, polysaccharide conjugation
agent, hydrolyzable conjugation agent, and any combinations thereof.
[0056]        For engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions to be immobilized on or
conjugated to a carrier scaffold, the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions described herein
can further comprise at least one (e.g., one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven,
twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty or more) second
                                                     12

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
domain, e.g., adapted for orienting the heme-binding domain away from the carrier scaffold surface.
In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold surface can be functionalized with a coupling molecule to
facilitate the conjugation of engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions to the solid
surface.
[00571        Accordingly, in some embodiments, the second domain can be selected or configured to
provide one or more functional groups for conjugating the heme-binding domain with a carrier
scaffold or a deteactable label. A domain adapted for conjugating the heme-binding molecule to a
carrier scaffold is also referred to as a "conjugation domain" herein. As used herein, the term
"conjugation domain" refers to any molecule or portion thereof that facilitates the conjugation of the
engineered molecules described herein to a carrier scaffold.
[0058]        In some embodiments, length of the conjugation domain can vary from 1 amino acid
residue to about 10 amino acid residues, or about 2 amino acid residues to about 5 amino acid
residues. Determination of an appropriate amino acid sequence of the oconjugatio domain for
binding with different carrier scaffolds is well within one of skill in the art. For example, according to
one or more embodiments, the conjugation domain can comprise an amino acid sequence of AKT
(SEQ ID NO: 35), which provides a single biotinylation site for subsequent binding to streptavidin.
Preferably the AKT is at the terminus or near the terminus (e.g., within less than 10 amino acids from
the terminus) of the heme-binding molecule and/or composition.        In some embodiments, the
conjugation domain comprises a functional group for conjugating or linking the heme-binding
molecule and/or composition to the carrier scaffold.     Some exemplary functional groups for
conjugation include, but are not limited to, an amino group, a N-substituted amino group, a carboxyl
group, a carbonyl group, an acid anhydride group, an aldehyde group, a hydroxyl group, an epoxy
group, a thiol, a disulfide group, an alkenyl group, a hydrazine group, a hydrazide group, a
semicarbazide group, a thiosemicarbazide group, one partner of a binding pair, an amide group, an
aryl group, an ester group, an ether group, a glycidyl group, a halo group, a hydride group, an
isocyanate group, an urea group, an urethane group, and any combinations thereof.
[00591        Activation agents can be used to activate the components to be conjugated together.
Without limitations, any process and/or reagent known in the art for conjugation activation can be
used. Exemplary activation methods or reagents include, but are not limited to, 1-Ethyl-3-[3
dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDC or EDAC), hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT),
N-Hydroxysuccinimide (NHS), 2-(1H-7-Azabenzotriazol-1-yl)--1,1,3,3-tetramethyl uronium
hexafluorophosphate methanaminium (HATU), silanization, surface activation through plasma
treatment, and the like.
[0060]        In some embodiments, the conjugation domain can comprise at least one amino group
that can be non-convalently or covalently coupled with functional groups on the carrier scaffold. For
example, the primary amines of the amino acid residues (e.g., lysine or cysteine residues) can be used
                                                     13

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
to conjugate the heme-binding molecule and/or composition with the carrier scaffold. In some
embodiments, the amino group at the N-terminus of the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
can be used for conjugating the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions with the carrier
scaffold.
[00611       Without limitations, the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can be
conjugated to the carrier-scaffold through covalent or non-covalent interactions or any combination of
covalent and non-covalent interactions. Further, conjugation can be accomplished any of method
known to those of skill in the art. For example, covalent immobilization can be accomplished through,
for example, silane coupling. See, e.g., Weetall, 15 Adv. Mol. Cell Bio. 161 (2008); Weetall, 44
Meths. Enzymol. 134 (1976). The covalent interaction between the engineered heme-binding
molecules and/or compositions and/or coupling molecule and the surface can also be mediated by
other art-recognized chemical reactions, such as NHS reaction or a conjugation agent. The non
covalent interaction between the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions and/or
coupling molecule and the surface can be formed based on ionic interactions, van der Waals
interactions, dipole-dipole interactions, hydrogen bonds, electrostatic interactions, and/or shape
recognition interactions.
[0062]       Without limitations, conjugation can include either a stable or a labile (e.g. cleavable)
bond or conjugation agent. Exemplary conjugations include, but are not limited to, covalent bond,
amide bond, additions to carbon-carbon multiple bonds, azide alkyne Huisgen cycloaddition, Diels
Alder reaction, disulfide linkage, ester bond, Michael additions, silane bond, urethane, nucleophilic
ring opening reactions: epoxides, non-aldol carbonyl chemistry, cycloaddition reactions: 1,3-dipolar
cycloaddition, temperature sensitive, radiation (IR, near-IR, UV) sensitive bond or conjugation agent,
pH-sensitive bond or conjugation agent, non-covalent bonds (e.g., ionic charge complex formation,
hydrogen bonding, pi-pi interactions, hist guest interactions, such as cyclodextrin/adamantly host
guest interaction) and the like.
[0063]       In some embodiments, the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can be
conjugated to the carrier-scaffold with a linker. In some embodiments, the heme-binding molecules
and/or compositions can be conjugated to the carrier-scaffold with a linking group selected from the
group consisting of a direct bond, an atom such as oxygen or sulfur, C(O), C(O)O, OC(O)O,
C(O)NH, NHC(O)O, NH, SS, SO, SO 2 , SO3 , and SO2NH.
[0064]       In some embodiments, the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can
be conjugated to the carrier scaffold by a coupling molecule pair. The terms "coupling molecule pair"
and "coupling pair" as used interchangeably herein refer to the first and second molecules that
specifically bind to each other. One member of the binding pair is conjugated with the carrier
scaffold while the second member is conjugated with the heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions. As used herein, the phrase "first and second molecules that specifically bind to each
                                                   14

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
other" refers to binding of the first member of the coupling pair to the second member of the coupling
pair with greater affinity and specificity than to other molecules. Exemplary coupling molecule pairs
include, without limitations, any haptenic or antigenic compound in combination with a
corresponding antibody or binding portion or fragment thereof (e.g., digoxigenin and anti
digoxigenin; mouse immunoglobulin and goat antimouse immunoglobulin) and nonimmunological
binding pairs (e.g., biotin-avidin, biotin-streptavidin), hormone (e.g., thyroxine and cortisol-hormone
binding protein), receptor-receptor agonist, receptor-receptor antagonist (e.g., acetylcholine receptor
acetylcholine or an analog thereof), IgG-protein A, lectin-carbohydrate, enzyme-enzyme cofactor,
enzyme-enzyme inhibitor, and complementary oligonucleotide pairs capable of forming nucleic acid
duplexes). The coupling molecule pair can also include a first molecule that is negatively charged and
a second molecule that is positively charged.
[00651       One example of using coupling pair conjugation is the biotin-avidin or biotin-streptavidin
conjugation. In this approach, one of the members of molecules to be conjugated together (e.g., the
engineered heme-binding molecule and/or composition or the carrier scaffold) is biotinylated and the
other is conjugated with avidin or streptavidin. Many commercial kits are available for biotinylating
molecules, such as proteins. For example, an aminooxy-biotin (AOB) can be used to covalently attach
biotin to a molecule with an aldehyde or ketone group. In some embodiments, AOB is attached to the
engineered heme-binding molecule and/or composition. Further, as described elsewhere herein, an
AKT sequence on the N-terminal of the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can
allow the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions to be biotinylated at a single site
and further conjugated to the streptavidin-coated solid surface. Moreover, the heme-binding molecule
and/or composition can be coupled to a biotin acceptor peptide, for example, the AviTag or Acceptor
Peptide (referred to as AP; Chen et al., 2 Nat. Methods 99 (2005)).     The Acceptor Peptide sequence
allows site-specific biotinylation by the E. coli enzyme biotin ligase (BirA; Id.).  Thus, in some
embodiments, the conjugation domain comprises an amino acid sequence of a biotin acceptor peptide.
[0066]       Another non-limiting example of using conjugation with a coupling molecule pair is the
biotin-sandwich method. See, e.g., Davis et al., 103 PNAS 8155 (2006). In this approach, the two
molecules to be conjugated together are biotinylated and then conjugated together using tetravalent
streptavidin. Another example for conjugation would be to use PLP -mediated bioconjugation. See,
e.g., Witus et al., 132 JACS 16812 (2010). Still another example of using coupling pair conjugation is
double-stranded nucleic acid conjugation.
[00671       In this approach, one of the members of molecules to be conjugated together is
conjugated with a first strand of the double-stranded nucleic acid and the other is conjugated with the
second strand of the double-stranded nucleic acid. Nucleic acids can include, without limitation,
defined sequence segments and sequences comprising nucleotides, ribonucleotides,
                                                     15

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
deoxyribonucleotides, nucleotide analogs, modified nucleotides and nucleotides comprising backbone
modifications, branchpoints and nonnucleotide residues, groups or bridges.
[0068]        The carrier scaffold can also be functionalized to include a functional group for
conjugating with the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions. In some embodiments, the carrier
scaffold can be functionalized to include a coupling molecule, or a functional fragment thereof, that is
capable of selectively binding with an engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
described herein. As used herein, the term "coupling molecule" refers to any molecule or any
functional group that is capable of selectively binding with an engineered microbe surface-binding
domain described herein. Representative examples of coupling molecules include, but are not limited
to, antibodies, antigens, lectins, proteins, peptides, nucleic acids (DNA, RNA, PNA and nucleic acids
that are mixtures thereof or that include nucleotide derivatives or analogs); receptor molecules, such
as the insulin receptor; ligands for receptors (e.g., insulin for the insulin receptor); and biological,
chemical or other molecules that have affinity for another molecule.
[0069]        In some embodiments, the coupling molecule is an aptamer. As used herein, the term
"aptamer" means a single-stranded, partially single-stranded, partially double-stranded or double
stranded nucleotide sequence capable of specifically recognizing a selected non-oligonucleotide
molecule or group of molecules by a mechanism other than Watson-Crick base pairing or triplex
formation. Aptamers can include, without limitation, defined sequence segments and sequences
comprising nucleotides, ribonucleotides, deoxyribonucleotides, nucleotide analogs, modified
nucleotides and nucleotides comprising backbone modifications, branchpoints and nonnucleotide
residues, groups or bridges. Methods for selecting aptamers for binding to a molecule are widely
known in the art and easily accessible to one of ordinary skill in the art. The aptamers can be of any
length, e.g., from about 1 nucleotide to about 100 nucleotides, from about 5 nucleotides to about 50
nucleotides, or from about 10 nucleotides to about 25 nucleotides.
[00701        In some embodiments, the heme-binding composition and/or molecule can further
comprise a therapeutic agent. For example, the heme-binding composition and/or molecule can
comprise an anti-microbial agent. Therapeutic agents are described herein below. Any method
available to the skilled artisan for conjugating a therapeutic agent to a peptide can be used for
conjugating the therapeutic agent to the heme-binding composition and/or molecule. For example,
functional groups or methods used for conjugating the molecule to a carrier scaffold can also be used
for conjugating the molecule to a therapeutic agent. This can be beneficial for delvierying or
concentrating a therapeutic agent (e.g., an anti-microbial agent) at a nidus of infection.
[00711        The multiple domains of a heme-binding molecule and/or composition can be arranged in
any desired orientation in the engineered heme-binding molecule and/or composition. For example,
N-terminus of the heme-binding domain can be linked to the C-terminus of a second domain or C
                                                     16

    WO 2014/190040                                                                        PCT/US2014/038945
terminus of the heme-binding domain can be linked to the N-terminus of a second domain. In some
embodiments, that linking between the first and second domain is via the linker.
[0072]        Further, as disclosed herein, an engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
can comprise at least one heme-binding domain, including at least two, at least three, at least four, at
least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten or more heme-binding
domains. When more than two first or second domains are present, such domains can all be the
same, all different, or some same and some different.
[00731        In some embodiments, the engineered heme-binding molecule and/or composition
disclosed herein comprises two or more heme-binding domains and one second domain. In such
molecules, one heme-binding domain can be linked to the second domain and the other heme-binding
domains can be linked to the heme-binding domain linked to the second domain. Alternatively, two
heme-binding domains can be linked to the second domain and other heme-binding domains can be
linked to one or both of the two heme-binding domains linked to the second domain.
[0074]        In some embodiments, the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
disclosed herein comprise two or more second domains and one heme-binding domain. In such
molecules, one second domain can be linked to the heme-binding domain and the other second
domains can be linked to the second domain linked to the heme-binding domain. Alternatively, two
second domains can be linked to the heme-binding domain and other second domains can be linked to
one or both of the two second domains linked to the heme-binding domain.
[00751        In some embodiments, the engineered heme-binding molecule and/or composition is in
the form of a multimeric compelex comprising at least two (e.g., two, three, four, five, six, sevem,
eight, nine, ten, or more) engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions. Accordingly, the
multimeric compelex can be a di-, tri-, tetra-, penta-, hexa- or higher multimeric complex. Without
limitaitons, the multimeric complex can be formed by interactions between a second domain or linker
of a first molecule with a second domain or a linker of the second molecule. Such interactions can
comprise covalent linking or non-covlalent linking. The heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions in the multimeric complex can all be the same, all different, or some same and some
different.
[00761        In some embodiments, an engineered heme-binding molecule can further comprise a
substrate binding domain. Non-limiting examples of substrate binding domains can include an Fc
domain or AKT.
[00771        In some embodiments, a heme-binding composition and/or molecule as described herein
can further comprise a microbe-binding domain, e.g. conjugated to and/or in combination with
molecules comprising a hemopexin domain. Non-limiting examples of microbe-binding domains can
include MBL and CRP.           The term "microbe binding domain" can refer to any molecule or a
fragment thereof that can specifically bind to the surface of a microbe or pathogen, e.g., any
                                                        17

    WO 2014/190040                                                                    PCT/US2014/038945
component present on a surface of a microbe or pathogen, or any matter or component/fragment that
is derived, originated or secreted from a microbe or pathogen. Molecules that can be used in the
microbe binding domain can include, for example, but are not limited to, peptides, polypeptides,
proteins, peptidomimetics, antibodies, antibody fragments (e.g., antigen binding fragments of
antibodies), carbohydrate-binding protein, e.g., a lectin, glycoproteins, glycoprotein-binding
molecules, amino acids, carbohydrates (including mono-, di-, tri- and poly-saccharides), lipids,
steroids, hormones, lipid-binding molecules, cofactors, nucleosides, nucleotides, nucleic acids (e.g.,
DNA or RNA, analogues and derivatives of nucleic acids, or aptamers), peptidoglycan,
lipopolysaccharide, small molecules, and any combinations thereof.
[0078]        Compositions and/or molecules comprising a microbe-binding domain can be used, e.g.,
for separating microbes from a test sample in vivo, in situ or in vitro. Generally, the microbe-binding
molecules disclosed herein can bind with or capture at least one microbe. The microbe can be an
intact or whole microbe or any matter or component that is derived, originated or secreted from a
microbe. Any matter or component that is derived, originated or secreted from a microbe is also
referred to as "microbial matter" herein. Thus, the microbe-binding molecules disclosed herein can
bind/capture an intact or whole microbe or microbial matter derived, originated or secreted from the
microbe. Exemplary microbial matter that can bind to the microbe-binding molecule can include, but
is not limited to, a cell wall component, an outer membrane, a plasma membrane, a ribosome, a
microbial capsule, a pili or flagella, any fragments of the aforementioned microbial components, any
nucleic acid (e.g., DNA, including 16S ribosomal DNA, and RNA) derived from a microbe, microbial
endotoxin (e.g., lipopolysaccharide), and the like. In addition, microbial matter can encompass non
viable microbial matter that can cause an adverse effect (e.g., toxicity) to a host or an environment.
The terms "microbe-binding molecule(s)" and "microbe-targeting molecule(s)" are used
interchangeably herein.
[00791        In accordance with the various embodiments described herein, molecules can comprise at
least one microbe-binding domain comprising at least a portion of a C-reactive protein (CRP) and at
least one hemopexin domain. In some embodiments, the two domains can be conjugated together via
a linker. In addition to the microbe-binding domain amino acid sequence, the molecule can further
comprise one or more amino acids (e.g., one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or
more) amino acids on the N- or C- terminus of the microbe-binding sequence. Generally, the
microbe-binding domain can have an amino acid sequence of about 10 to about 300 amino acid
residues. In some embodiments, the microbe-binding domain can have an amino acid sequence of
about 50 to about 250 amino acid residues. In some embodiments, the microbe-binding domain can
have an amino acid sequence of at least about 5, at least about 10, at least about 15, at least about 20,
at least about 30, at least about 40, at least about 50, at least about 60, at least about 70, at least about
80, at least about 90, at least about 100 amino acid residues or more. For any known sequences of a
                                                     18

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
microbe-binding domain, one of skill in the art can determine the optimum length of amino acid
sequence for retaining microbe-binding activity.
[0080]         C-reactive protein (CRP) can bind with gram-positive microbe and can be used for
capturing/detecting micrboes. As used herein, "CRP" can comprise full length CRP or a fragment
thereof retaining microbe binding activity.      Without limitations, the CRP can be from any source
available to one of skill in the art. For example, the CRP can be from a mammalian source. For
example, the CRP can be human CRP (NCBI Reference Sequence: NP_000558.2) or mouse CRP
(NCBI Reference Sequence: NP_031794.3).            In some embodiments, the first domain comprises an
amino acid sequence comprising amino acids 19-224 of the human. CRP is described further in the
art, e.g., in U.S. Patent Application No. 61/917,705 filed December 18, 2013.
[0081]         In some embodiments, the microbe-binding domain can comprise a peptidomimetic that
mimics a molecule or a fragment thereof that can specifically bind to the surface of a microbe or
pathogen, or microbial matter. For example, a microbe-binding domain can comprise a
peptidomimetic that mimics a carbohydrate recognition domain or a fragment thereof, e.g.,
carbohydrate recognition domain of MBL or a fragment thereof.
[0082]         In some embodiments, the microbe-binding domain can be a carbohydrate recognition
domain or a fragment thereof of carbohydrate binding protein. The term "carbohydrate recognition
domain" as used herein refers to a region, at least a portion of which, can bind to carbohydrates on a
surface of microbes or pathogens. In some embodiments, the second domain can comprise at least
about 50% of the full length CRD, including at least about 60%, at least about 70%, at least about
80%, at least about 90% or higher, capable of binding to carbohydrates on a microbe surface. In some
embodiments, 100% of the carbohydrate recognition domain can be used to bind to microbes or
pathogens. In other embodiments, the carbohydrate recognition domain can comprise additional
regions that are not capable of carbohydrate binding, but can have other characteristics or perform
other functions, e.g., to provide flexibility to the carbohydrate recognition domain when interacting
with microbes or pathogens.
[0083]         Exemplary carbohydrate-binding proteins include, but are not limited to, lectin, collectin,
ficolin, mannose-binding lectin (MBL), maltose-binding protein, arabinose-binding protein, and
glucose-binding protein. Additional carbohydrate-binding proteins that can be included in the
microbe-binding domain described herein can include, but are not limited to, lectins or agglutinins
that are derived from a plant, e.g., Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) from the Galanthus
(snowdrop) plant, and peanut lectin. In some embodiments, pentraxin family members (e.g., C
reactive protein) can also be used as a carbohydrate-binding protein. Pentraxin family members can
generally bind capsulated microbes. Without limitation, the carbohydrate-binding proteins can be
wild-type, recombinant or a fusion protein. The respective carbohydrate recognition domains for such
                                                      19

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
carbohydrate-binding proteins are known in the art, and can be modified for various embodiments of
the engineered microbe-binding molecules described herein.
[0084]       Any art-recognized recombinant carbohydrate-binding proteins or carbohydrate
recognition domains can be used in the engineered molecules. For example, recombinant mannose
binding lectins, e.g., but not limited to, the ones disclosed in the U.S. Patent Nos. 5,270,199;
6,846,649; U.S. Patent Application No. US 2004/0229212; and PCT Application No. WO
2011/090954, filed January 19, 2011, the contents of all of which are incorporated herein by
reference, can be used in constructing the molecules and compositions described herein.
[00851       In some embodiments, the CRD is from an MBL, a member of the collectin family of
proteins. A native MBL is a multimeric structure (e.g., about 650 kDa) composed of subunits, each of
which contains three identical polypeptide chains. Each MBL polypeptide chain (containing 248
amino acid residues in length with a signal sequence) comprises a N-terminal cysteine rich region, a
collagen-like region, a neck region, and a carbohydrate recognition domain (CRD). The sequence of
each region has been identified and is well known in the art, e.g. human MBL is available in the
NCBI BLAST database as accession number NP_000233. The CRD of human MBL comprises
amino acids 114 to 248 of NP_000233. In some embodiments, the carbohydrate recognition
domain of the engineered MBL molecule can comprise a fragment of the CRD. Exemplary
amino acid sequences of such fragments include, but are not limited to, ND (SEQ ID NO.
29), EZN (SEQ ID NO. 30: where Z is any amino acid, e.g., P), NEGEPNNAGS (SEQ ID
NO. 31) or a fragment thereof comprising EZN, GSDEDCVLL (SEQ ID NO. 32) or a
fragment thereof comprising E, and LLLKNGQWNDVPCST (SEQ ID NO. 33) or a
fragment thereof comprising ND. Modifications to such CRD fragments, e.g., by conservative
substitution, are also within the scope described herein. In some embodiments, the MBL or a
fragment thereof used in the the engineered molecules described herein can be a wild-type molecule
or a recombinant molecule.
[0086]       In some circumstances, complement or coagulation activation induced by a carbohydrate
binding protein or a fragment thereof can be undesirable depending on various applications, e.g., in
vivo administration for treatment of sepsis. In such embodiments, the additional portion of the
carbohydrate-binding protein can exclude at least one of complement and coagulation activation
regions. By way of example, when the carbohydrate-binding protein is mannose-binding lectin or a
fragment thereof, the mannose-binding lectin or a fragment thereof can exclude at least one of the
complement and coagulation activation regions located on the collagen-like region. In such
embodiments, the mannose-binding lectin or a fragment thereof can exclude at least about one amino
acid residue, including at least about two amino acid residues, at least about three amino acid residues,
at least about four amino acid residues, at least about five amino acid residues, at least about six
                                                     20

    WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
amino acid residues, at least about seven amino acid residues, at least about eight amino acid residues,
at least about nine amino acid residues, at least about ten amino acid residues or more, around amino
acid residue K55 or L56 of MBL (e.g. NCBI Ref Seq: NP_000233) Exemplary amino sequences
comprising K55 or L56 of MBL that can be excluded from the engineered molecule or compositions
described herein include, but are not limited to, EPGQGLRGLQGPPGKLGPPGNPGPSGS (SEQ ID
NO. 19), GKLG (SEQ ID NO. 20), GPPGKLGPPGN (SEQ ID NO. 21), RGLQGPPGKL (SEQ ID
NO. 22), GKLGPPGNPGPSGS (SEQ ID NO. 23), GLRGLQGPPGKLGPPGNPGP (SEQ ID NO.
24), or any fragments thereof.
[0087]        In some embodiments, the additional portion of the carbohydrate-binding proteins can
activate the complement system. In alternative embodiments, the additional portion of the
carbohydrate-binding protein cannot activate the complement system. In some embodiments, the
additional portion of the carbohydrate-binding protein can be selected, configured, or modified such
that it does not activate the complement system.
[00881        In some embodiments, the microbe-binding domain can comprise a neck region or a
frgament thereof from a lectin. By neck region of a lection is meant the portion of the lection than
connects the CRD to rest of the molecule. Without wishing to be bound by theory, the neck region
can provide flexibility and proper orientation for binding to a microbe surface. When the microbe
binding molecule disclosed herein comprises a neck region and an additional second domain, the neck
region can be located between the first domain and the additional second domain, i.e., the neck region
can act as a linker for linking the first domain and the additional second domain. In some
embodiments, the second domain can comprise one or more (e.g., one, two, three, four, fiv, six, seven,
eight, nine, ten, or more) additional amino acids on the N- or C-terminus of the neck region. In some
embodiments, the neck region comprises the amino acid sequence
PDGDSSLAASERKALQTEMARIKKWLTFSLGKQ (SEQ ID NO: 25),
APDGDSSLAASERKALQTEMARIKKWLTFSLGKQ (SEQ ID NO: 26),
PDGDSSLAASERKALQTEMARIKKWLTFSLG (SEQ ID NO: 27), or
APDGDSSLAASERKALQTEMARIKKWLTFSLG (SEQ ID NO: 28).
[00891        Modifications to the microbe-binding domain, e.g., by conservative substitution, are also
within the scope described herein. In some embodiments, the microbe-binding domain or a fragment
thereof used in the molecules described herein can be a wild-type molecule or a recombinant
molecule.
[0090]        In some embodiments, a molecule and/or composition as described herein can further
comprise a detectable label. As used herein, the term "detectable label" refers to a composition
capable of producing a detectable signal indicative of the presence of a target. Detectable labels
include any composition detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical,
electrical, optical or chemical means. Suitable labels include fluorescent molecules, radioisotopes,
                                                    21

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
nucleotide chromophores, enzymes, substrates, chemiluminescent moieties, bioluminescent moieties,
and the like. As such, a label is any composition detectable by spectroscopic, photochemical,
biochemical, immunochemical, electrical, optical or chemical means needed for the methods and
devices described herein.
[0091]       In some embodiments, the detectable label can be an imaging agent or contrast agent. As
used herein, the term "imaging agent" refers to an element or functional group in a molecule that
allows for the detection, imaging, and/or monitoring of the presence and/or progression of a
condition(s), pathological disorder(s), and/or disease(s). The imaging agent can be an echogenic
substance (either liquid or gas), non-metallic isotope, an optical reporter, a boron neutron absorber, a
paramagnetic metal ion, a ferromagnetic metal, a gamma-emitting radioisotope, a positron-emitting
radioisotope, or an x-ray absorber. As used herein the term "contrast agent" refers to any molecule
that changes the optical properties of tissue or organ containing the molecule. Optical properties that
can be changed include, but are not limited to, absorbance, reflectance, fluorescence, birefringence,
optical scattering and the like. In some embodiments, the detectable labels also encompass any
imaging agent (e.g., but not limited to, a bubble, a liposome, a sphere, a contrast agent, or any
detectable label described herein) that can facilitate imaging or visualization of a tissue or an organ in
a subject, e.g., for diagnosis of an infection.
[0092]        Suitable optical reporters include, but are not limited to, fluorescent reporters and
chemiluminescent groups. A wide variety of fluorescent reporter dyes are known in the art.
Typically, the fluorophore is an aromatic or heteroaromatic compound and can be a pyrene,
anthracene, naphthalene, acridine, stilbene, indole, benzindole, oxazole, thiazole, benzothiazole,
cyanine, carbocyanine, salicylate, anthranilate, coumarin, fluorescein, rhodamine or other like
compound.
[0093]       Exemplary fluorophores include, but are not limited to, 1,5 IAEDANS; 1,8-ANS ; 4
Methylumbelliferone; 5-carboxy-2,7-dichlorofluorescein; 5-Carboxyfluorescein (5-FAM); 5
Carboxynapthofluorescein (pH 10); 5-Carboxytetramethylrhodamine (5-TAMRA); 5-FAM (5
Carboxyfluorescein); 5-Hydroxy Tryptamine (HAT); 5-ROX (carboxy-X-rhodamine); 5-TAMRA (5
Carboxytetramethylrhodamine); 6-Carboxyrhodamine 6G; 6-CR 6G; 6-JOE; 7-Amino-4
methylcoumarin; 7-Aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD); 7-Hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin; 9-Amino-6
chloro-2-methoxyacridine; ABQ; Acid Fuchsin; ACMA (9-Amino-6-chloro-2-methoxyacridine);
Acridine Orange; Acridine Red; Acridine Yellow; Acriflavin; Acriflavin Feulgen SITSA; Aequorin
(Photoprotein); Alexa Fluor 350TM; Alexa Fluor 430TM; Alexa Fluor         488TM;  Alexa Fluor 532TM; Alexa
Fluor 546TM; Alexa Fluor    568TM;  Alexa Fluor 594TM; Alexa Fluor 633TM; Alexa Fluor 647TM; Alexa
Fluor 660TM; Alexa Fluor 680TM; Alizarin Complexon; Alizarin Red; Allophycocyanin (APC); AMC,
AMCA-S; AMCA (Aminomethylcoumarin); AMCA-X; Aminoactinomycin D; Aminocoumarin;
Anilin Blue; Anthrocyl stearate; APC-Cy7; APTS; Astrazon Brilliant Red 4G; Astrazon Orange R;
                                                    22

    WO 2014/190040                                                            PCT/US2014/038945
Astrazon Red 6B; Astrazon Yellow 7 GLL; Atabrine; ATTO-TAGTM CBQCA; ATTO-TAGTM FQ;
Auramine; Aurophosphine G; Aurophosphine; BAO 9 (Bisaminophenyloxadiazole); BCECF (high
pH); BCECF (low pH); Berberine Sulphate; Beta Lactamase; BFP blue shifted GFP (Y66H); BG-647;
Bimane; Bisbenzamide; Blancophor FFG; Blancophor SV; BOBOTM -1; BOBOTM -3; Bodipy
492/515; Bodipy 493/503; Bodipy 500/510; Bodipy 505/515; Bodipy 530/550; Bodipy 542/563;
Bodipy 558/568; Bodipy 564/570; Bodipy 576/589; Bodipy 581/591; Bodipy 630/650-X; Bodipy
650/665-X; Bodipy 665/676; Bodipy Fl; Bodipy FL ATP; Bodipy F1-Ceramide; Bodipy R6G SE;
Bodipy TMR; Bodipy TMR-X conjugate; Bodipy TMR-X, SE; Bodipy TR; Bodipy TR ATP; Bodipy
TR-X SE; BO-PROTM -1; BO-PROTM -3; Brilliant Sulphoflavin FF; Calcein; Calcein Blue; Calcium
CrimsonTM; Calcium Green; Calcium Green-I Ca2+ Dye; Calcium Green-2 Ca2+; Calcium Green-5N
Ca 2+; Calcium Green-C 18 Ca2+; Calcium Orange; Calcofluor White; Carboxy-X-rhodamine (5-ROX);
Cascade   BlueTM; Cascade Yellow; Catecholamine; CFDA; CFP - Cyan Fluorescent Protein;
Chlorophyll; Chromomycin A; Chromomycin A; CMFDA; Coelenterazine ; Coelenterazine cp;
Coelenterazine f; Coelenterazine fcp; Coelenterazine h; Coelenterazine hcp; Coelenterazine ip;
Coelenterazine 0; Coumarin Phalloidin; CPM Methylcoumarin; CTC;       Cy2TM;  Cy3.1 8; Cy3.5TM;
Cy3TM;   Cy5.1 8; Cy5.5TM; Cy5TM; Cy7TM;  Cyan GFP; cyclic AMP Fluorosensor (FiCRhR); d2;
Dabcyl; Dansyl; Dansyl Amine; Dansyl Cadaverine; Dansyl Chloride; Dansyl DHPE; Dansyl
fluoride; DAPI; Dapoxyl; Dapoxyl 2; Dapoxyl 3; DCFDA; DCFH (Dichlorodihydrofluorescein
Diacetate); DDAO; DHR (Dihydorhodamine 123); Di-4-ANEPPS; Di-8-ANEPPS (non-ratio); DiA
(4-Di-16-ASP); DIDS; Dihydorhodamine 123 (DHR); DiO (DiOC18(3)); DiR; DiR (DiIC18(7));
Dopamine; DsRed; DTAF; DY-630-NHS; DY-635-NHS; EBFP; ECFP; EGFP; ELF 97; Eosin;
Erythrosin; Erythrosin ITC; Ethidium homodimer- 1 (EthD- 1); Euchrysin; Europium (III) chloride;
Europium; EYFP; Fast Blue; FDA; Feulgen (Pararosaniline); FITC; FL-645; Flazo Orange; Fluo-3;
Fluo-4; Fluorescein Diacetate; Fluoro-Emerald; Fluoro-Gold (Hydroxystilbamidine); Fluor-Ruby;
FluorX; FM 1-43TM; FM 4-46; Fura RedTM (high pH); Fura-2, high calcium; Fura-2, low calcium;
Genacryl Brilliant Red B; Genacryl Brilliant Yellow IOGF; Genacryl Pink 3G; Genacryl Yellow 5GF;
GFP (S65T); GFP red shifted (rsGFP); GFP wild type, non-UV excitation (wtGFP); GFP wild type,
UV excitation (wtGFP); GFPuv; Gloxalic Acid; Granular Blue; Haematoporphyrin; Hoechst 33258;
Hoechst 33342; Hoechst 34580; HPTS; Hydroxycoumarin; Hydroxystilbamidine (FluoroGold);
Hydroxytryptamine; Indodicarbocyanine (DiD); Indotricarbocyanine (DiR); Intrawhite Cf; JC-1; JO
JO-1; JO-PRO-1; LaserPro; Laurodan; LDS 751; Leucophor PAF; Leucophor SF; Leucophor WS;
Lissamine Rhodamine; Lissamine Rhodamine B; LOLO-1; LO-PRO-1; Lucifer Yellow; Mag Green;
Magdala Red (Phloxin B); Magnesium Green; Magnesium Orange; Malachite Green; Marina Blue;
Maxilon Brilliant Flavin 10 GFF; Maxilon Brilliant Flavin 8 GFF; Merocyanin; Methoxycoumarin;
Mitotracker Green FM; Mitotracker Orange; Mitotracker Red; Mitramycin; Monobromobimane;
Monobromobimane (mBBr-GSH); Monochlorobimane; MPS (Methyl Green Pyronine Stilbene);
                                                 23

    WO 2014/190040                                                                      PCT/US2014/038945
NBD; NBD Amine; Nile Red; Nitrobenzoxadidole; Noradrenaline; Nuclear Fast Red; Nuclear
Yellow; Nylosan Brilliant Iavin E8G; Oregon GreenTM; Oregon Green 488-X; Oregon GreenTM 488;
Oregon GreenTM 500; Oregon GreenTM 514; Pacific Blue; Pararosaniline (Feulgen); PE-Cy5; PE-Cy7;
PerCP; PerCP-Cy5.5;PE-TexasRed (Red 613); Phloxin B (Magdala Red); Phorwite AR; Phorwite
BKL; Phorwite Rev; Phorwite RPA; Phosphine 3R; PhotoResist; Phycoerythrin B [PE];
Phycoerythrin R [PE]; PKH26 ; PKH67; PMIA; Pontochrome Blue Black; POPO-1; POPO-3; PO
PRO-1; PO-PRO-3; Primuline; Procion Yellow; Propidium Iodid (PI); PyMPO; Pyrene; Pyronine;
Pyronine B; Pyrozal Brilliant Flavin 7GF; QSY 7; Quinacrine Mustard; Resorufin; RH 414; Rhod-2;
Rhodamine; Rhodamine 110; Rhodamine 123; Rhodamine 5 GLD; Rhodamine 6G; Rhodamine B
540; Rhodamine B 200 ; Rhodamine B extra; Rhodamine BB; Rhodamine BG; Rhodamine Green;
Rhodamine Phallicidine; Rhodamine Phalloidine; Rhodamine Red; Rhodamine WT; Rose Bengal; R
phycoerythrin (PE); red shifted GFP (rsGFP, S65T); S65A; S65C; S65L; S65T; Sapphire GFP;
Serotonin; Sevron Brilliant Red 2B; Sevron Brilliant Red 4G; Sevron Brilliant Red B; Sevron Orange;
Sevron Yellow L; sgBFPTM; sgBFPTM (super glow BFP); sgGFPTM; sgGFPTM (super glow GFP);
SITS; SITS (Primuline); SITS (Stilbene Isothiosulphonic Acid); SPQ (6-methoxy-N-(3-sulfopropyl)
quinolinium); Stilbene; Sulphorhodamine B can C; Sulphorhodamine G Extra; Tetracycline;
Tetramethylrhodamine; Texas RedTM; Texas Red-XTM conjugate; Thiadicarbocyanine (DiSC3);
Thiazine Red R; Thiazole Orange; Thioflavin 5; Thioflavin S; Thioflavin TCN; Thiolyte; Thiozole
Orange; Tinopol CBS (Calcofluor White); TMR; TO-PRO-1; TO-PRO-3; TO-PRO-5; TOTO-1;
TOTO-3; TriColor (PE-Cy5); TRITC (TetramethylRodaminelsoThioCyanate); True Blue; TruRed;
Ultralite; Uranine B; Uvitex SFC; wt GFP; WW 781; XL665; X-Rhodamine; XRITC; Xylene Orange;
Y66F; Y66H; Y66W; Yellow GFP; YFP; YO-PRO-1; YO-PRO-3; YOYO-1; and YOYO-3.                              Many
suitable forms of these fluorescent compounds are available and can be used.
[0094]        Other exemplary detectable labels include luminescent and bioluminescent markers (e.g.,
biotin, luciferase (e.g., bacterial, firefly, click beetle and the like), luciferin, and aequorin), radiolabels
(e.g., 3H, 1251, 35S, 14C, or 32P), enzymes (e.g., galactosidases, glucorinidases, phosphatases (e.g.,
alkaline phosphatase), peroxidases (e.g., horseradish peroxidase), and cholinesterases), and
calorimetric labels such as colloidal gold or colored glass or plastic (e.g., polystyrene, polypropylene,
and latex) beads. Patents teaching the use of such labels include U.S. Pat. Nos. 3,817,837, 3,850,752,
3,939,350, 3,996,345, 4,277,437, 4,275,149, and 4,366,241, each of which is incorporated herein by
reference.
[0095]        Suitable echogenic gases include, but are not limited to, a sulfur hexafluoride or
perfluorocarbon gas, such as perfluoromethane, perfluoroethane, perfluoropropane, perfluorobutane,
perfluorocyclobutane, perfluropentane, or perfluorohexane. Suitable non-metallic isotopes include,
                         11
but are not limited to,     C, 14C, 1N,  18F, m,    4I, and 1251.  Suitable radioisotopes include, but are not
            99                                                 153
limited to,   mTc, 95Tc, i"In, 62Cu, 64Cu, Ga, 6'Ga, and          Gd. Suitable paramagnetic metal ions
                                                        24

     WO 2014/190040                                                                          PCT/US2014/038945
include, but are not limited to, Gd(III), Dy(III), Fe(III), and Mn(II). Suitable X-ray absorbers include,
but are not limited to, Re, Sm, Ho, Lu, Pm, Y, Bi, Pd, Gd, La, Au, Au, Yb, Dy, Cu, Rh, Ag, and Ir.
[0096]         In some embodiments, the radionuclide is bound to a chelating agent or chelating agent
linker attached to the heme-binding molecule and/or composition. Suitable radionuclides for direct
conjugation include, without limitation, 18F,    1I, 1I,    mI, and mixtures thereof. Suitable
                                                                                  47
radionuclides for use with a chelating agent include, without limitation,            Sc, 64 Cu, 67Cu,    '
                                                                                                           9
                                                                                                             Sr, 6,
87    90   105           1"In, 117
                   "Ag,            mSn, 149Pm,                             Re, 188Re
   Y     Y     Rh,                             15 3    166     1 77     186             21 1     212
                                                  m,       Ho,      Lu,                      At,     Bi, and mixtures
thereof. Suitable chelating agents include, but are not limited to, DOTA, BAD, TETA, DTPA,
EDTA, NTA, HDTA, their phosphonate analogs, and mixtures thereof. One of skill in the art will be
familiar with methods for attaching radionuclides, chelating agents, and chelating agent-linkers to
molecules such as the heme-binding molecule and/or composition and carrier scaffolds disclosed
herein.
[0097]         Means of detecting such labels are well known to those of skill in the art. Thus, for
example, radiolabels can be detected using photographic film or scintillation counters, fluorescent
markers can be detected using a photo-detector to detect emitted light. Enzymatic labels are typically
detected by providing the enzyme with an enzyme substrate and detecting the reaction product
produced by the action of the enzyme on the enzyme substrate, and calorimetric labels can be detected
by visualizing the colored label. Exemplary methods for in vivo detection or imaging of detectable
labels include, but are not limied to, radiography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), Positron
emission tomography (PET), Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT, or less
commonly, SPET), Scintigraphy, ultrasound, CAT scan, photoacoustic imaging, thermography, linear
tomography, poly tomography, zonography, orthopantomography (OPT or OPG), and computed
Tomography (CT) or Computed Axial Tomography (CAT scan).
[0098]         In some embodiments, the detectable label can include an enzyme. Exemplary enzymes
for use as detectable labels include, but are not limited to, horseradish peroxidase (HRP), alkaline
phosphastase (AP), or any combinations thereof.
[0099]         In some embodiments, the detectable can include an enzyme substrate (e.g., an microbial
enzyme substrate) conjugated to a detectable agent. For example, the detectable agent can be any
moiety that, when cleaved from an enzyme substrate by the enzyme, forms a detectable moiety but
that is not detectable in its conjugated state. The enzyme substrate, e.g. a microbial enzyme substrate
can be a substrate specific for one or more types of microbes to be detected, and it can be selected
depending upon what enzymes the microbe possesses or secretes. See, e.g., International Patent
Application: WO 2011/103144 for the use of such detectable label in detection of microbes, the
content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
[00100]        In some embodiments, the detectable label is a fluorophore or a quantum dot. Without
wishing to be bound by a theory, using a fluorescent reagent can reduce signal-to-noise in the
                                                     25

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
imaging/readout, thus maintaining sensitivity. In some embodiments, the detectable label is a gold
particle.
[00101]       In some embodiments, the detectable label can be configured to include a "smart label",
which is undetectable when conjugated to the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions, but
produces a color change when released from the engineered molecules in the presence of an enzyme,
e.g. a microbial enzyme. Thus, when a microbe binds to the engineered molecules, the microbe
releases enzymes that release the detectable label from the engineered molecules. An observation of a
color change indicates presence of the microbe in the sample. In some embodiments, the detectable
label can be a chromogenic or fluorogenic microbe enzyme substrate so that when a microbe binds to
the engineered microbe-targeting molecule, the enzyme that the microbe releases can interact with the
detectable label to induce a color change. Examples of such microbe enzyme substrate can include,
but are not limited to, indoxyl butyrate, indoxyl glucoside, esculin, magneta glucoside, red-p
glucuronide, 2-methoxy-4-(2-nitrovinyl) phenyl j-D-glu-copyranoside, 2-methoxy-4-(2-nitrovinyl)
phenyl j-D-cetamindo-2-deoxyglucopyranoside, and any other art-recognized microbe enzyme
substrates. Such embodiments can act as an indicator for the presence of a microbe or pathogen or
enzyme.
[00102]       In one aspect, described herein is a method of reducing the level of free heme in the blood
of a subject, the method comprising contacting the blood of the subject with a heme-binding
composition as described herein. In some embodiments, the method can comprise administering the
composition to the subject. In some embodiments, the method can comprise removing a portion of
the subject's blood prior to the contacting step and performing the contacting step extracorporeally
and then returning the portion of the subject's blood to the subject.
[00103]       In some embodiments, the heme-binding compositions described herein, e.g. the
compositions comprising the hemopexin polypeptides described herein can bind to myoglobin.
[00104]       In one aspect, described herein is a method of reducing the level of free myoglobin in the
blood of a subject, the method comprising contacting the blood of the subject with a heme-binding
composition as described herein. In some embodiments, the method can comprise administering the
composition to the subject. In some embodiments, the method can comprise removing a portion of
the subject's blood prior to the contacting step and performing the contacting step extracorporeally
and then returning the portion of the subject's blood to the subject.
[00105]       In some embodiments, described herein is a method of treating, e.g. crush injury and/or
rhabdomyolysis in a subject by administering a heme-binding molecule and/or composition as described
herein to the subject. Rhabdomyolysis can arise from a number of causes, e.g. crush injury, infections,
toxins, etc. and cause kidney damage. In some embodiments, administration can comprise contacting the
blood of the subject with the heme-binding molecule and/or composition. In some embodiments, the
method can comprise administering the molecule and/or composition to the subject. In some
                                                    26

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
embodiments, the method can comprise removing a portion of the subject's blood prior to the
contacting step and performing the contacting step extracorporeally and then returning the portion of
the subject's blood to the subject.
[00106]       In some embodiments, the extracorporeal device is a device as described in, e.g.
International Patent Publications W02012/135834 and W02011/091037; each of which is
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Further extracorporeal devices for blood filtration and
methods of constructing them are well known in the art, see, e.g. International Patent Publications
PCT/US04/012911; PCT/US05/065126; PCT/US04/040923; PCT/SE87/00647 1; PCT/IB 11/056000;
PCT/US90/006924; PCT/US06/0016747; PCT/JP1O/072557; U.S. Patent Publications 2011/0272343;
2012/0220915 and U.S. Patent Nos. 3,954,623; 7,059,480; 7,217,365; 7,014,648; 4,517,090;
7,488,302; 7,332,096; each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. By way of
non-limiting example, the device can comprise a blood removal means, e.g. a needle and attached
tubing, a filtration unit, and a blood return means, e.g. a second tubing and needle. The filtration unit
can comprise a substrate with a large surface area, e.g. a filter, column, membrane, porous surface,
channels, and the like. Blood filtration devices can optionally further comprise pumps, syringes,
blood storage compartments, reservoirs, tubing, sterilization means, and the like.
[00107]       In some embodiments, the extracorporeal device can comprise a heme-binding molecule
and/or composition as described herein conjugated to a hollow fiber DLT-like device, e.g. the
HEMOPURIFIERTM device (Aethlon Medical; San Diego, CA). Further information can be found in
the art at, e.g., U.S. Patents 6,254,567; 8,105,487; 6,117,100; U.S. Patent Publication 2012/0164628;
International Patent Publication W02012135834; W02006041125;WO2010065765; and European
Patent No. 2694970, 2344233; 1624785.
[00108]       In one aspect, described herein is a composition comprising a heme-binding molecule or
composition as described herein, and further comprising a solid substrate or support to which the
heme-binding molecule or composition is conjugated. In some embodiments, the solid substrate or
support can be a hollow fiber, e.g. the hollow fiber of a DLT device, as described above herein.
[00109]       In some embodiments, the heme-binding composition is bound to a solid substrate of an
extracorporeal device, e.g. a filter, affinitity column, cavity or tube. Non-limiting examples of solid
substrate include a hollow-fiber reactor or any other blood filtration membrane or flow device (e.g., a
simple dialysis tube) or other resins, fibers, or sheets to which the heme-binding composition can be
bound. In some embodiments, binding can be non-covalent, e.g., by hydrogen, electrostatic, or van
der waals interactions, however, binding may also be covalent. By "conjugated" is meant the covalent
linkage of at least two molecules. In some embodiments, the heme-binding composition can be
conjugated to a protein on the solid substrate.
[00110]       In some embodiments, the heme-binding molecule and/or composition can be bound to,
e.g. a bead or particle. The beards and/or particles can be contacted with the subject's blood. Heme
                                                     27

    WO 2014/190040                                                                      PCT/US2014/038945
present in the blood will be bound by the heme-binding molecule and/or composition and the complex
of heme and heme-binding molecule and/or composition can then be removed from the blood by, e.g.
centrifugation to pellet the beads or applying magnetic field to separate magnetic beads from the
blood. As used herein, the term "bead" refers to a microparticle of any design or construction, but
preferably a microparticle that is about the size of a cell or smaller. While cell sizes vary according to
cell type, the bead (microparticles) can be of any such size or smaller, e.g. nanoscale in size. In some
embodiments, the beads or particles can range in size from Inm to 1 mm. In some embodiments, the
beads can be about 250 nm to about 250 pm in size.
[00111]        The bead can be formed of any material to which a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition can be bound. Suitable materials include, without limitation, a synthetic polymer,
biopolymer, latex, or silica, and the material may have paramagnetic properties. The use of such
beads and/or particles is known in the art and described, e.g. magnetic bead and nano-particles are
well known and methods for their preparation have been described in the are art, for example in U.S.
Pat. Nos.: 6,878,445; 5,543,158; 5,578,325; 6,676,729; 6,045,925 and 7,462,446, and U.S. Pat. Pub.
Nos.: 2005/0025971; 2005/0200438; 2005/0201941; 2005/0271745; 2006/0228551; 2006/0233712;
2007/01666232 and 2007/0264199, contents of all of which are herein incorporated by reference in
their entirety. Magnetic microbeads are easily and widely available commercially, with or without
functional groups capable of binding to affinity molecules. Suitable superparamagnetic microbeads
are commercially available such as from Dynal Inc. of Lake Success, N. Y.; PerSeptive Diagnostics,
Inc. of Cambridge, MA.; Invitrogen Corp. of Carlsbad, CA; Cortex Biochem Inc. of San Leandro,
CA; and Bangs Laboratories of Fishers, IN.
[00112]        In some embodiments, provided herein is an article or product for targeting or binding
microbes comprising at least one, including at least two, at least three, at least four, at least five, at
least ten, at least 25, at least 50, at least 100, at least 250, at least 500, or more engineered heme
binding molecules and/or compositions conjugated to a carrier scaffold or a surface thereof. The
"carrier scaffold" is also referred to as a "carrier substrate" herein. In some embodiments, surface of
the carrier scaffold can be coated with the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions disclosed
herein. As used herein, the term "article" refers to any distinct physical microscale or macroscale
object. An article comprising a heme-binding molecule and/or composition conjugated to a carrier
scaffold is also referred to as a "heme-binding article" herein.
[00113]        Without limitations, the carrier scaffold can be selected from a wide variety of materials
and in a variety of formats. For example, the carrier scaffold can be utilized in the form of beads or
particles (including nanoparticles, microparticles, polymer microbeads, magnetic microbeads, and the
like), filters, fibers, screens, mesh, tubes, hollow fibers, scaffolds, plates, channels, gold particles,
magnetic materials, planar shapes (such as a rectangular strip or a circular disk, or a curved surface
such as a stick), other substrates commonly utilized in assay formats, and any combinations thereof.
                                                        28

     WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
[00114]       Examples of carrier scaffolds include, but are not limited to, nucleic acid scaffolds,
protein scaffolds, lipid scaffolds, dendrimers, microparticles or microbeads, nanotubes, microtiter
plates, medical apparatuses (e.g., needles or catheters) or implants, dipsticks or test strips, microchips,
filtration devices or membranes, membranses, diagnostic strips, hollow-fiber reactors, microfluidic
devices, living cells and biological tissues or organs, extracorporeal devices, mixing elements (e.g.,
spiral mixers), and the like. In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can be in the form of a
continuous roll on which the test area(s) and optionally reference area(s) are present in the form of
continuous lines or a series of spots.
[00115]       The carrier scaffold can be made of any material, including, but not limited to, metal,
metal alloy, polymer, plastic, paper, glass, fabric, packaging material, biological material such as
cells, tissues, hydrogels, proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, and any combinations thereof.
[00116]       In some embodiments, the heme-binding articles disclosed herein can be used to capture,
detect, or remove heme and/or myoglobin from any source or in any fluid, e.g., a biological fluid (e.g.,
blood sample).     In some embodiments where the fluid is blood, after removal of the heme and/or
myoglobin from the blood collected from a subject with the heme-binding magnetic microbeads, the
blood can be circulated back to the same subject as a therapeutic intervention. Alternatively, the
carrier scaffold can comprise a hollow-fiber reactor or any other blood filtration membrane or flow
device (e.g., a simple dialysis tube, spiral mixer or static mixer) or other resins, fibers, or sheets to
selective bind and sequester the heme and/or myoglobin.
[00117]       The particular format or material of the carrier scaffold depends on the particular use or
application, for example, the separation/detection methods employed in an assay application. In some
embodiments, the format or material of the carrier scaffold can be chosen or modified to maximize
signal-to-noise ratios, e.g., to minimize background binding or for ease of separation of reagents and
cost. For example, carrier scaffold can be treated or modified with surface chemistry to minimize
chemical agglutination and non-specific binding. In some embodiments, at least a portion of the
caarier scaffold surface that is in contact with a test sample can be treated to become less adhesive to
any molecules (including microbes, if any) present in a test sample. By way of example only, the
carrier scaffold surface in contact with a test sample can be silanized or coated with a polymer such
that the surface is inert to the molecules present in the test sample, including but not limited to, cells
or fragments thereof (including blood cells and blood components), proteins, nucleic acids, peptides,
small molecules, therapeutic agents, microbes, microorganisms and any combinations thereof. In
other embodiments, a carrier scaffold surface can be treated with an omniphobic layer. See, e.g.,
Wong TS et al., "Bioinspired self-repairing slippery surfaces with pressure-stable omniphobicity."
(2011) Nature 477 (7365): 443-447, and International Application No.: PCT/US12/21928, the content
of which is incorporated herein by reference, for methods to produce a slippery carrier scaffold
                                                     29

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
surface. Accordingly, non-specific binding of molecules from the test sample to a substrate surface
can be reduced, thus increasing the sensitivity and specificity of the heme-binding agent.
[00118]      In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can be fabricated from or coated with a
biocompatible material. As used herein, the term "biocompatible material" refers to any material that
does not deteriorate appreciably and does not induce a significant immune response or deleterious
tissue reaction, e.g., toxic reaction or significant irritation, over time when implanted into or placed
adjacent to the biological tissue of a subject, or induce blood clotting or coagulation when it comes in
contact with blood. Suitable biocompatible materials include, for example, derivatives and
copolymers of polyimides, poly(ethylene glycol), polyvinyl alcohol, polyethyleneimine, and
polyvinylamine, polyacrylates, polyamides, polyesters, polycarbonates, and polystyrenes. In some
embodiments, biocompatible materials can include metals, such as titanium and stainless steel, or any
biocompatible metal used in medical implants. In some embodiments, biocompatible materials can
include paper substrate, e.g., as a carrier scaffold for a diagnostic strip. In some embodiments,
biocompatible materials can include peptides or nucleic acid molecules, e.g., a nucleic acid scaffold
such as a 2-D DNA sheet or 3-D DNA scaffold.
[00119]      Additional material that can be used to fabricate or coat a carrier scaffold include, without
limitations, polydimethylsiloxane, polyimide, polyethylene terephthalate, polymethylmethacrylate,
polyurethane, polyvinylchloride, polystyrene polysulfone, polycarbonate, polymethylpentene,
polypropylene, polyvinylidine fluoride, polysilicon, polytetrafluoroethylene, polysulfone, acrylonitrile
butadiene styrene, polyacrylonitrile, polybutadiene, poly(butylene terephthalate), poly(ether sulfone),
poly(ether ether ketones), poly(ethylene glycol), styrene-acrylonitrile resin, poly(trimethylene
terephthalate), polyvinyl butyral, polyvinylidenedifluoride, poly(vinyl pyrrolidone), and any
combination thereof.
[00120]      In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can be fabricated from or coated with a
biodegradable material. As used herein, the term "biodegradable" refers to the ability of a
composition to erode or degrade in vivo to form smaller chemical fragments. Degradation can occur,
for example, by enzymatic, chemical or physical processes. Non-limiting examples of biodegradable
polymers that can be used in aspects provided herein include poly(lactide)s, poly(glycolide)s,
poly(lactic acid)s, poly(glycolic acid)s, poly (lactide-co-glycolide), polyanhydrides, polyorthoesters,
polycaprolactone, polyesteramides, polycarbonate, polycyanoacrylate, polyurethanes, polyacrylate,
blends and copolymers thereof.
[00121]      Other additional biodegradable polymers include biodegradable polyetherester
copolymers. Generally speaking, the polyetherester copolymers are amphiphilic block copolymers
that include hydrophilic (for example, a polyalkylene glycol, such as polyethylene glycol) and
hydrophobic blocks (for example, polyethylene terephthalate). An exemplary block copolymer is, but
is not limited to, poly(ethylene glycol)-based and poly(butylene terephthalate)-based blocks
                                                      30

    WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
(PEG/PBT polymer). PEG/PBT polymers are commercially available from OctoPlus Inc, under the
trade designation PolyActiveTM. Non-limiting examples of biodegradable copolymers or multiblock
copolymers include the ones described in U.S. Patent Nos: 5,980,948 and 5,252,701, the contents of
which are incorporated herein by reference.
[00122]       Other biodegradable polymer materials include biodegradable terephthalate copolymers
that include a phosphorus-containing linkage. Polymers having phosphoester linkages, called
poly(phosphates), poly(phosphonates) and poly(phosphites), are known in the art. See, for example,
Penczek et al., Handbook ofPolymer Synthesis, Chapter 17: "Phosphorus-Containing Polymers,"
1077-1 132 (Hans R. Kricheldorf ed., 1992), as well as U.S. Patent Nos. 6,153,212; 6,485,737;
6,322,797; 6,600,010; 6,419,709; 6,419,709; 6,485,737; 6,153,212; 6,322,797 and 6,600,010, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[00123]       Biodegradable polyhydric alcohol esters can also be used as a material of a carrier
scaffold (e.g., a microparticle) (See U.S. Patent No. 6,592,895, which is incorporated herein by
reference). In some embodiments, the biodegradable polymer can be a three-dimensional crosslinked
polymer network containing hydrophobic and hydrophilic components which forms a hydrogel with a
crosslinked polymer structure, such as the one described in U.S. Patent No. 6,583,219. In yet further
embodiments, the biodegradable polymer can comprise a polymer based upon a-amino acids (such as
elastomeric copolyester amides or copolyester urethanes, as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,503,538,
which is incorporated herein by reference).
[00124]       In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can comprise a paper, nitrocellulose, glass,
plastic, polymer, membrane material, nylon, and any combinations thereof. This is useful for using
the article as a test strip of a dipstick.
[00125]       As used herein, by the "coating" or "coated" is generally meant a layer of molecules or
material formed on an outermost or exposed layer of a surface. With respect to a coating of
engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions on a carrier scaffold, the term "coating" or
"coated" refers to a layer of engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions formed on an
outermost or exposed layer of a carrier scaffold surface. In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold
surface can encompass an outer surface or an inner surface, e.g., with respect to a hollow structure.
[00126]       The amount of the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions conjugated
to or coating on a carrier scaffold can vary with a number of factors such as a surface area,
conjugation/coating density, types of engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions, and/or
binding performance. A skilled artisan can determine the optimum density of engineered heme
binding molecules and/or compositions on a carrier scaffold using any methods known in the art. By
way of example only, for magnetic microparticles as a carrier scaffold, the amount of the engineered
heme-binding molecules and/or compositions used for conjugating to or coating magnetic
microbparticles can vary from about 1 wt % to about 30 wt %, or from about 5 wt % to about 20 wt%.
                                                   31

    WO 2014/190040                                                               PCT/US2014/038945
In some embodiments, the amount of the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
used for conjugating to or coating magnetic microparticles can be higher or lower, depending on a
specific need. However, it should be noted that if the amount of the engineered heme-binding
molecules and/or compositions used for conjugating to or coating the magnetic microparticcles is too
low, the magnetic microparticles can show a lower binding performance with heme and/or myoglobin.
On the contrary, if the amount of the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions used
for conjugating to or coating the magnetic microparticles is too high, the dense layer of the engineered
heme-binding molecules and/or compositions can exert an adverse influence on the magnetic
properties of the magnetic microbeads, which in turn can degrade the efficiency of separating the
magnetic microbeads from a fluid utilizing the magnetic field gradient. Similar concerns apply to
other substrate types.
[00127]       In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can further comprise at least one area adapted
for use as a reference area. By way of example only, the reference area can be adapted for use as a
positive control, negative control, a reference, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the
carrier scaffold can further comprise at least two areas, wherein one area is adapted for a positive
control and the second area is adapated for a negative control.
[00128]       In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can further comprise at least one reference area
or control area for comparison with a readout signal determined from the test area. The reference area
generally excludes the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions, e.g., to account for
any background signal. In some embodiments, the reference area can include one or more known
amounts of the detectable label that the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions in
the test area encompass. In such embodiments, the reference area can be used for calibration such that
the amount of heme and/or myoglobin in a test sample can be estimated or quantified.
[00129]       In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold can further comprise a detectable label. The
detetable lable can be seprate from the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions conjugated with
the carrier scaffold or linked to the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions conjugated with the
carrier scaffold.
[00130]       Heme-binding microparticles: In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold is a
microparticle. Accordingly, some embodiments described herein provide a heme-binding
microparticle comprising at least one engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions on its
surface. The term "microparticle" as used herein refers to a particle having a particle size of about
0.001 tm to about 1000 pm, about 0.005 tm to about 50 pm, about 0.01 tm to about 25 pm, about
0.05 tm to about 10 pm, or about 0.05 tm to about 5 tm. In one embodiment, the microparticle has
a particle size of about 0.05 tm to about 1 tm. In one embodiment, the microparticle is about 0.09
 tm - about 0.2 tm in size.
                                                    32

    WO 2014/190040                                                                      PCT/US2014/038945
[00131]       In some embodiments, the microparticle can range in size from 1 nm to 1 mm, about 2.5
nm to about 500 ptm, or about 5 nm to about 250 pm in size. In some embodiments, microparticle can
be about 5 nm to about 100 pm in size. In some embodiments, microparticle can be about 0.01 pm to
about 10 pm in size. In some embodiments, the micrparticle can be about 0.05 Pm to about 5 Pm in
size. In some embodiments, the micrparticle can be about 0.08 Pm to about 1 Pm in size. In one
embodiment, the micrparticle can be about 10 nm to about 10 jim in size. In some embodiments, the
the micrparticle can be about 1 nm to about 1000 nm, from about 10 nm to about 500 nm, from about
25 nm to about 300 nm, from about 40 nm to about 250 nm, or from about 50 nm to about 200 nm. In
one embodiment, the micrparticle can be about 50 nm to about 200 nm.
[00132]       It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that microparticles usually exhibit
a distribution of particle sizes around the indicated "size." Unless otherwise stated, the term "size" as
used herein refers to the mode of a size distribution of microparticles, i.e., the value that occurs most
frequently in the size distribution. Methods for measuring the microparticle size are known to a
skilled artisan, e.g., by dynamic light scattering (such as photocorrelation spectroscopy, laser
diffraction, low-angle laser light scattering (LALLS), and medium-angle laser light scattering
(MALLS)), light obscuration methods (such as Coulter analysis method), or other techniques (such as
rheology, and light or electron microscopy).
[00133]       Without limitations, the microparticle can be of any shape. Thus, the microparticle can
be, but is not limited to, spherical, rod, elliptical, cylindrical, disc, and the like. In some
embodiments, the term "microparticle" as used herein can encompass a microsphere. The term
"microsphere" as used herein refers to a microparticle having a substantially spherical form. A
substantially spherical microparticle is a microparticle with a difference between the smallest radii
and the largest radii generally not greater than about 40% of the smaller radii, and more typically less
than about 30%, or less than 20%.
[00134]       In some embodiments, the micrparticeles having a substantially spherical shape
and defined surface chemistry can be used to minimize chemical agglutination and non
specific binding.
[00135]       In one embodiment, the term "microparticle" as used herein encompasses a microcapsule.
The term "microcapsule" as used herein refers to a microscopic capsule that contains an active
ingredient, e.g., a therapeutic agent or an imagining agent. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the
microparticles comprising on their surface engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
can encapsulate at least one active ingredient therein, e.g., a therapeutic agent.
[00136]       In general, any biocompatible material well known in the art for fabrication of
microparticles can be used in embodiments of the microparticle described herein. Accordingly, a
microparticle comprising a lipidic microparticle core is also within the scope described herein. An
exemplary lipidic microparticle core is, but is not limited to, a liposome. A liposome is generally
                                                       33

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
defined as a particle comprising one or more lipid bilayers enclosing an interior, e.g., an aqueous
interior. In one embodiment, a liposome can be a vesicle formed by a bilayer lipid membrane.
Methods for the preparation of liposomes are well described in the art, e.g., Szoka and
Papahadjopoulos (1980) Ann. Rev. Biophys. Bioeng. 9: 467, Deamer and Uster (1983) Pp. 27-51 In:
Liposomes, ed. M. J. Ostro, Marcel Dekker, New York.
[00137]       Heme-binding magnetic microparticles: In some embodiments, the microparticle is a
magnetic microparticle. Thus, in some embodiments, provided herein is a "heme-binding magnetic
microparticle" wherein a magnetic microparticle comprising on its surface at least one engineered
heme-binding molecule and/or composition. Without limitations, such heme-binding magnetic
microparticles can be used to separate heme and/or myoglobin from a test sample, e.g., but not limited
to, any fluid, including a biological fluid such as blood. In some embodiments, the heme-binding
magnetic microparticle can be used to remove heme and/or myoglobin. Using magnetic
microparticles as a substrate can be advantageous because the heme-bound magnetic microparticles
can be easily separated from a sample fluid using a magnetic field gradient, be examined for the
presence of the heme and/or myoglobin. Thus, in some embodiments, the heme-binding magnetic
microparticles can be used to catpture, detect, or remove heme and/or myoglobin contaminants from
any source or in any fluid, e.g., a biological fluid (e.g., blood sample). In some embodiments where
the fluid is blood, after removal of the heme and/or my from the blood collected from a subject with
the heme-binding magnetic microbeads, the blood can be circulated back to the same subject as a
therapeutic intervention. Alternatively, the solid substrate can comprise a hollow-fiber reactor or any
other blood filtration membrane or flow device (e.g., a simple dialysis tube, spiral mixer or static
mixer) or other resins, fibers, or sheets to selective bind and sequester heme and/or myoglobin.
[00138]       Magnetic microparticles can be manipulated using magnetic field or magnetic field
gradient. Such particles commonly consist of magnetic elements such as iron, nickel and cobalt and
their oxide compounds. Magnetic microparticles are well-known and methods for their preparation
have been described in the art. See, e.g., U.S. Patents No. 6,878,445; No. 5,543,158; No. 5,578,325;
No. 6,676,729; No. 6,045,925; and No. 7,462,446; and U.S. Patent Publications No. 2005/0025971;
No. 2005/0200438; No. 2005/0201941; No. 2005/0271745; No. 2006/0228551; No. 2006/0233712;
No. 2007/01666232; and No. 2007/0264199, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
[00139]       Magnetic microparticles are also widely and commercially available, with or without
functional groups capable of conjugation with the heme-binding molecules and/or compositions
disclosed herein. Magnetic microparticles functionalized with various functional groups, e.g., amino
groups, carboxylic acid groups, epoxy groups, tosyl groups, or silica-like groups, are also widely and
commercially available. Suitable magnetic microparticles are commercially available such as from
AdemTech, Miltenyi, PerSeptive Diagnostics, Inc. (Cambridge, MA); Invitrogen Corp. (Carlsbad,
                                                     34

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
CA); Cortex Biochem Inc. (San Leandro, CA); and Bangs Laboratories (Fishers, IN). In particular
embodiments, magnetic microparticles that can be used herein can be any DYNABEADS@ magnetic
microbeads (Invitrogen Inc.), depending on the substrate surface chemistry.
[00140]       Heme-binding microtiterplates: In some embodiments, the bottom surface of microtiter
wells can be coated with the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions described
herein, e.g., for detecting and/or determining the amount of heme and/or myoglobin in a sample. After
heme and/or myoglobin in the sample binding to the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions bound to the microwell surface, the rest of the sample can be removed. Detectable
molecules that can also bind to heme and/or myoglobin (e.g., an engineered heme-binding molecules
and/or compositions conjugated to a detectable molecule as described herein) can then be added to the
microwells with for detection of heme and/or myoglobin. Various signal detection methods for
determining the amount of proteins, e.g., using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), with
different detectable molecules have been well established in the art, and those signal detection
methods can also be employed herein to facilitate detection of the signal induced by heme and/or
myoglobin binding on the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions.
[00141]       Heme-binding dipsticks/test strips: In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold having the
heme-binding molecules and/or compositions conjugated thereon can be in the form of a dipstick
and/or a test strip for capture, detection, or clearance of heme and/or myoglobin. For example, a
dipstick and/or a test strip can include at least one test area containing one or more engineered heme
binding molecules and/or compositions described herein.         The dipstick and/or a test strip can be in
any shape and/or in any format, e.g., a planar shape such as a rectangular strip or a circular disk, or a
curved surface such as a stick. Alternatively, a continuous roll can be utilized, rather than discrete test
strips, on which the test area(s) and optionally reference area(s) are present in the form of continuous
lines or a series of spots. In some embodiments, the heme-binding dipsticks or test strips described
herein can be used as point-of-care diagnostic tools for heme and/or myoglobin.
[00142]       In some embodiments, the carrier scaffold in the form of a dipstick or a test strip can be
made of any material, including, without limitations, paper, nitrocellulose, glass, plastic, polymer,
membrane material, nylon, and any combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the carrier scaffold in
the form of a dipstick or a test strip can include paper. In one embodiment, the carrier scaffold in the
form of a dipstick or a test strip can include nylon.
[00143]       In some embodiments, the dipstick or a test strip can further comprise at least one
reference area or control area for comparison with a readout signal determined from the test area. The
reference area generally excludes the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or compositions, e.g.,
to account for any background signal. In some embodiments, the reference area can include one or
more known amounts of the detectable label that the engineered heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions in the test area encompass. In such embodiments, the reference area can be used for
                                                     35

    WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
calibration such that the amount of heme and/or myoglobin in a test sample can be estimated or
quantified.
[00144]       In some embodiments, the dipstick/test strip can further comprise a detectable label as
described herein. The detectable lable can be linked to the heme-binding molecule conjugated with
the dipstick/test strip or separate from the heme-binding molecule conjugated with the dipstick/test
strip.
[00145]       In one embodiment, about 1 ptg to about 100 ptg heme-binding molecules can be coated
on or attached to a dipstick or membrane surface. In another embodiment, about 3 pig to about 60 pig
heme-binding molecules can be coated on or attached to a dipstick or membrane surface. In some
embodiments, about 0.1 mg/mL to about 50 mg/mL, about 0.5 mg/mL to about 40 mg/mL, about 1
mg/mL to about 30 mg/mL, about 5 mg/mL to about 20 mg/mL heme-binding molecules and/or
compositions can be coated on or attached to a dipstick or membrane surface.
[00146]       In one aspect, described herein is a method of producing a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition, the method comprising culturing a cell comprising a nucleic acid, e.g. an isolated
nucleic acid, encoding a heme-binding molecule and/or composition as described herein under
conditions suitable for the production of proteins and purifying the heme-binding molecule and/or
composition by affinity purification with a Fc domain binding reagent.
[00147]       A nucleic acid encoding a heme-binding molecule and/or composition can be a nucleic
acid encoding, e.g. SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ ID NO: 5. Nucleic acid molecules encoding a heme
binding molecule and/or composition described herein are prepared by a variety of methods known in
the art. These methods include, but are not limited to, PCT, ligation, and direct synthesis. A nucleic
acid sequence encoding a polypeptide as described herein can be recombined with vector DNA in
accordance with conventional techniques, including blunt-ended or staggered-ended termini for
ligation, restriction enzyme digestion to provide appropriate termini, filling in of cohesive ends as
appropriate, alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining, and ligation with appropriate
ligases. Techniques for such manipulations are disclosed, e.g., by Maniatis et al., Molecular Cloning,
Lab. Manual (Cold Spring Harbor Lab. Press, NY, 1982 and 1989), and Ausubel, 1987, 1993, and can
be used to construct nucleic acid sequences which encode a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition polypeptide as described herein.
[00148]       The term "vector" encompasses any genetic element that is capable of replication when
associated with the proper control elements and that can transfer gene sequences to cells. A vector can
include, but is not limited to, a cloning vector, an expression vector, a plasmid, phage, transposon,
cosmid, chromosome, virus, virion, etc. These transgenes can be introduced as a linear construct, a
circular plasmid, or a viral vector, which can be an integrating or non-integrating vector. The
transgene can also be constructed to permit it to be inherited as an extrachromosomal plasmid
(Gassmann, et al. , Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (1995) 92:1292).
                                                    36

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
[00149]       In one aspect, the technology described herein relates to an expression vector comprising
a nucleic acid encoding any of the heme-binding molecule and/or composition polypeptides described
herein. Such vectors can be ued, e.g. to transform a cell in order to produce the encoded polypeptide.
As used herein, the term "expression vector" refers to a vector that directs expression of an RNA or
polypeptide from sequences linked to transcriptional regulatory sequences on the vector. The
sequences expressed will often, but not necessarily, be heterologous to the cell. An expression vector
may comprise additional elements, for example, the expression vector may have two replication
systems, thus allowing it to be maintained in two organisms, for example in mammalian cells for
expression and in a prokaryotic host for cloning and amplification. The term "expression" refers to the
cellular processes involved in producing RNA and proteins and as appropriate, secreting proteins,
including where applicable, but not limited to, for example, transcription, transcript processing,
translation and protein folding, modification and processing. "Expression products" include RNA
transcribed from a gene, and polypeptides obtained by translation of mRNA transcribed from a gene.
The term "gene" means the nucleic acid sequence which is transcribed (DNA) to RNA in vitro or in
vivo when operably linked to appropriate regulatory sequences. The gene may or may not include
regions preceding and following the coding region, e.g. 5' untranslated (5'UTR) or "leader" sequences
and 3' UTR or "trailer" sequences, as well as intervening sequences (introns) between individual
coding segments (exons).
[00150]       By "recombinant vector" is meant a vector that includes a heterologous nucleic acid
sequence, or "transgene" that is capable of expression in vivo. It should be understood that the vectors
described herein can, in some embodiments, be combined with other suitable compositions and
therapies. Vectors useful for the delivery of a sequence encoding an isolated peptide as described
herein can include one or more regulatory elements ( e.g. , promoter, enhancer, etc.) sufficient for
expression of the isolated peptide in the desired target cell or tissue. The regulatory elements can be
chosen to provide either constitutive or regulated/inducible expression. As used herein, the term
"viral vector" refers to a nucleic acid vetor construct that includes at least one element of viral origin
and has the capacity to be packaged into a viral vector particle. The viral vector can contain the
nucleic acid encoding an antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof as described herein in place of
non-essential viral genes. The vector and/or particle may be utilized for the purpose of transferring
any nucleic acids into cells either in vitro or in vivo . Numerous forms of viral vectors are known in
the art.
[00151]       Examples of vectors useful in delivery of nucleic acids encoding isolated peptides as
described herein include plasmid vectors, non-viral plasmid vectors (e.g. see 6,413,942, 6,214,804,
5,580,859, 5,589,466, 5,763,270 and 5,693,622, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entireties); retroviruses (e.g. see U.S. Pat. No. 5,219,740; Miller and Rosman (1989)
BioTechniques 7:980-90; Miller, A. D. (1990) Human Gene Therapy 1:5-14; Scarpa et al. (1991)
                                                      37

    WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
Virology 180:849-52; Miller et al. , Meth. Enzymol. 217:581-599 (1993); Burns et al. (1993) Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90:8033-37; Boris-Lawrie and Temin (1993) Curr. Opin. Genet. Develop.
3:102-09. Boesen et al. , Biotherapy 6:291-302 (1994); Clowes et al. , J. Clin. Invest. 93:644-651
(1994); Kiem et al. , Blood 83:1467-1473 (1994); Salmons and Gunzberg, Human Gene Therapy
4:129-141 (1993); and Grossman and Wilson, Curr. Opin. in Genetics and Devel. 3:110-114 (1993),
the contents of each of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties); lentiviruses
(e.g., see U.S. Patent Nos. 6,143,520; 5,665,557; and 5,981,276, the contents of which are herein
incorporated by reference in their entireties; adenovirus-based expression vectors (e.g., see Haj
Ahmad and Graham (1986) J. Virol. 57:267-74; Bett et al. (1993) J. Virol. 67:5911-21; Mittereder et
al. (1994) Human Gene Therapy 5:717-29; Seth et al. (1994) J. Virol. 68:933-40; Barr et al. (1994)
Gene Therapy 1:51-58; Berkner, K. L. (1988) BioTechniques 6:616-29; and Rich et al. (1993) Human
Gene Therapy 4:461-76; Wu et al. (2001) Anesthes. 94:1119-32; Parks (2000) Clin. Genet. 58:1-11;
Tsai et al. (2000) Curr. Opin. Mol. Ther. 2:515-23; and U.S. Pat. No. 6,048,551; 6,306,652and
6,306,652, incorporated herein by reference in their entireties); Adeno-associated viruses (AAV) (e.g.
see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,139,941; 5,622,856; 5,139,941; 6,001,650; and 6,004,797, the contents of each of
which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties); and avipox vectors (e.g. see WO
91/12882; WO 89/03429; and WO 92/03545; which are incorporated by reference herein in their
entireties).
[00152]       Useful methods of transfection can include, but are not limited to electroporation,
sonoporation, protoplast fusion, peptoid delivery, or microinjection. See, e.g. , Sambrook et al (1989)
Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories, New York, for a
discussion of techniques for transforming cells of interest; and Felgner, P. L. (1990) Advanced Drug
Delivery Reviews 5:163-87, for a review of delivery systems useful for gene transfer. Exemplary
methods of delivering DNA using electroporation are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,132,419;
6,451,002, 6,418,341, 6,233,483, U.S. Patent Publication No. 2002/0146831, and International
Publication No. WO/0045823, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00153]       Non-limiting examples of vectors useful for expression in prokaryotic cells can include
plasmids. Plasmid vectors can include, but are not limited to, pBR322, pBR325, pACYC177,
pACYC184, pUC8, pUC9, pUC18, pUC19, pLG339, pR290, pKC37, pKC1O1, SV 40, pBluescript II
SK +/- or KS +/- (see "Stratagene Cloning Systems" Catalog (1993) from Stratagene, La Jolla, Calif,
which is hereby incorporated by reference), pQE, pIH821, pGEX, pET series (see Studier et. al., "Use
of T7 RNA Polymerase to Direct Expression of Cloned Genes," Gene Expression Technology , vol.
185 (1990), which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety). Non-limiting examples of
mammalian and insect appropriate vectors can include pcDNA3, pCMV6, pOptiVec, pFUSE, and
pFastBac.
                                                   38

     WO 2014/190040                                                               PCT/US2014/038945
[00154]       In some embodiments, the polypeptide can be constitutively expressed. In some
embodiments, nucleic acids encoding the polypeptide can be operatively linked to a constitutive
promoter. In some embodiments, the polypeptide can be inducibly expressed. In some embodiments,
nucleic acids encoding the polypeptide can be operatively linked to an inducible promoter. As
described herein, an "inducible promoter" is one that is characterized by initiating or enhancing
transcriptional activity when in the presence of, influenced by, or contacted by an inducer or inducing
agent than when not in the presence of, under the influence of, or in contact with the inducer or
inducing agent. An "inducer" or "inducing agent" may be endogenous, or a normally exogenous
compound or protein that is administered in such a way as to be active in inducing transcriptional
activity from the inducible promoter. In some embodiments, the inducer or inducing agent, e.g., a
chemical, a compound or a protein, can itself be the result of transcription or expression of a nucleic
acid sequence ( e.g., an inducer can be a transcriptional repressor protein), which itself may be under
the control or an inducible promoter. Non-limiting examples of inducible promoters include but are
not limited to, the lac operon promoter, a nitrogen-sensitive promoter, an IPTG-inducible promoter, a
salt-inducible promoter, and tetracycline, steroid-responsive promoters, rapamycin responsive
promoters and the like. Inducible promoters for use in prokaryotic systems are well known in the art,
see, e.g. the beta.-lactamase and lactose promoter systems (Chang et al., Nature, 275: 615 (1978,
which is incorporated herein by reference); Goeddel et al., Nature, 281: 544 (1979), which is
incorporated herein by reference), the arabinose promoter system, including the araBAD promoter
(Guzman et al., J. Bacteriol., 174: 7716-7728 (1 992), which is incorporated herein by reference;
Guzman et al., J. Bacteriol., 177: 4121-4130 (1995), which is incorporated herein by reference;
Siegele and Hu, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 94: 8168-8172 (1997), which is incorporated herein by
reference), the rhamnose promoter (Haldimann et al., J. Bacteriol., 180: 1277-1286 (1998), which is
incorporated herein by reference), the alkaline phosphatase promoter, a tryptophan (trp) promoter
system (Goeddel, Nucleic Acids Res., 8: 4057 (1980), which is incorporated herein by reference), the
PLtetO-1 and Plac/are-1 promoters (Lutz and Bujard, Nucleic Acids Res., 25: 1203-1210 (1997),
which is incorporated herein by reference), and hybrid promoters such as the tac promoter. deBoer et
al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 80: 21-25 (1983), which is incorporated herein by reference. Non
limiting examples of mammalian and insect promoters can include CMV, SV40, LTR, and polyhedrin
promoter.
[00155]       An inducible promoter useful in the methods and systems as disclosed herein can be
induced by one or more physiological conditions, such as changes in pH, temperature, radiation,
osmotic pressure, saline gradients, cell surface binding, and the concentration of one or more extrinsic
or intrinsic inducing agents. The extrinsic inducer or inducing agent may comprise amino acids and
amino acid analogs, saccharides and polysaccharides, nucleic acids, protein transcriptional activators
and repressors, cytokines, toxins, petroleum-based compounds, metal containing compounds, salts,
                                                   39

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
ions, enzyme substrate analogs, hormones, and combinations thereof. In specific embodiments, the
inducible promoter is activated or repressed in response to a change of an environmental condition,
such as the change in concentration of a chemical, metal, temperature, radiation, nutrient or change in
pH. Thus, an inducible promoter useful in the methods and systems as disclosed herein can be a phage
inducible promoter, nutrient inducible promoter, temperature inducible promoter, radiation inducible
promoter, metal inducible promoter, hormone inducible promoter, steroid inducible promoter, and/or
hybrids and combinations thereof. Appropriate environmental inducers can include, but are not
limited to, exposure to heat (i.e., thermal pulses or constant heat exposure), various steroidal
compounds, divalent cations (including Cu2+ and Zn2+), galactose, tetracycline, IPTG (isopropyl-p
D thiogalactoside), as well as other naturally occurring and synthetic inducing agents and gratuitous
inducers.
[00156]       Inducible promoters useful in the methods and systems as disclosed herein also include
those that are repressed by "transcriptional repressors" that are subject to inactivation by the action of
environmental, external agents, or the product of another gene. Such inducible promoters may also be
termed "repressible promoters" where it is required to distinguish between other types of promoters in
a given module or component of the biological switch converters described herein. Preferred
repressors for use in the present invention are sensitive to inactivation by physiologically benign
agent. Thus, where a lac repressor protein is used to control the expression of a promoter sequence
that has been engineered to contain a lacO operator sequence, treatment of the host cell with IPTG
will cause the dissociation of the lac repressor from the engineered promoter containing a lacO
operator sequence and allow transcription to occur. Similarly, where a tet repressor is used to control
the expression of a promoter sequence that has been engineered to contain a tetO operator sequence,
treatment of the host cell with tetracycline will cause the dissociation of the tet repressor from the
engineered promoter and allow transcription of the sequence downstream of the engineered promoter
to occur.
[00157]       The cell comprising the nucleic acid can be, e.g. a microbial cell or a mammalian cell. In
some embodiments, the cell as described herein is cultured under conditions suitable for the
expression of the heme-binding composition polypeptide. Such conditions can include, but are not
limited to, conditions under which the cell is capable of growth and/or polypeptide synthesis.
Conditions may vary depending upon the species and strain of cell selected. Conditions for the culture
of cells, e.g. prokaryotic and mammalian cells, are well known in the art. If the recombinant
polypeptide is operatively linked to an inducible promoter, such conditions can include the presence
of the suitable inducing molecule(s).
[00158]       As used herein, "a Fc domain binding reagent" refers to an agent that is capable of
binding specifically to a Fc domain. In some embodiments, a Fc domain binding reagent can be an
anti-Fc antibody or a FcR receptor or portion thereof. The term "agent" refers generally to any entity
                                                    40

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
which is normally not present or not present at the levels being administered to a cell. An agent can be
selected from a group comprising: polynucleotides; polypeptides; small molecules; antibodies; or
functional fragments thereof. As used herein, the term "specific binding" refers to a chemical
interaction between two molecules, compounds, cells and/or particles wherein the first entity binds to
the second, target entity with greater specificity and affinity than it binds to a third entity which is a
non-target. In some embodiments, specific binding can refer to an affinity of the first entity for the
second target entity which is at least 10 times, at least 50 times, at least 100 times, at least 500 times,
at least 1000 times or greater than the affinity for the third nontarget entity.
[00159]       As used herein, "purifying" refers to the process of isolating a particular molecule or
composition and/or treating a sample comprising a particular molecule or composition such that the
molecule or composition is more isolated than before the treatment (e.g. is present at a higher level of
purity). The term " isolated" or "partially purified" as used herein refers to a molecule or composition
separated from at least one other component (e.g., nucleic acid or polypeptide) that is present with the
molecule as found in its natural source and/or that would be present with the molecule when
expressed by a cell, or secreted in the case of secreted polypeptides. A chemically synthesized nucleic
acid or polypeptide or one synthesized using in vitro transcription/translation is considered "isolated."
[00160]       In some embodiments, the polypeptides described herein can be purifying by means of a
agent specific for one or more domains of the polypeptide, e.g. a substrate and/or antibody reagent
that binds specifically to, e.g., Fc, a linker, a microbe-binding domain, etc.
[00161]       In some embodiments, the methods described herein relate to treating a subject having or
diagnosed as having sepsis with a method or composition described herein. Subjects having sepsis
can be identified by a physician using current methods of diagnosing sepsis. Symptoms and/or
complications of sepsis which characterize these conditions and aid in diagnosis are well known in the
art and include but are not limited to, high fever, hot, flushed skin, elevated heart rate,
hyperventilation, altered mental status, swelling, and low blood pressure. Tests that may aid in a
diagnosis of, e.g. sepsis include, but are not limited to, blood cultures. Exposure to risk factors for
sepsis (e.g. immunodeficiency) can also aid in determining if a subject is likely to have sepsis or in
making a diagnosis of sepsis.
[00162]       In some embodiments, the methods described herein comprise administering an effective
amount of compositions described herein, e.g. a heme-binding molecule and/or composition to a
subject in order to alleviate a symptom of sepsis and/or excess heme in the blood. As used herein,
"alleviating a symptom of sepsis" is ameliorating any condition or symptom associated with the
sepsis. As compared with an equivalent untreated control, such reduction is by at least 5%, 10%, 20%,
40%, 50%, 60%, 80%, 90%, 95%, 99% or more as measured by any standard technique. A variety of
means for administering the compositions described herein to subjects are known to those of skill in
the art. Such methods can include, but are not limited to oral, parenteral, intravenous, intramuscular,
                                                      41

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
subcutaneous, transdermal, airway (aerosol), pulmonary, injection, or cutaneous administration.
Administration can be local or systemic.
[00163]      In some embodiments, the methods described herein can comprise administering an
effective amount of the compositions described herein, e.g. a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition, to a subject in need of treatment for rhabdomyolysis (e.g., crush injury).
[00164]      The term "effective amount" as used herein refers to the amount of a composition needed
to alleviate at least one or more symptom of the disease or disorder, and relates to a sufficient amount
of pharmacological composition to provide the desired effect. The term "therapeutically effective
amount" therefore refers to an amount of a composition that is sufficient to provide a particular effect
when administered to a typical subject. An effective amount as used herein, in various contexts,
would also include an amount sufficient to delay the development of a symptom of the disease, alter
the course of a symptom disease (for example but not limited to, slowing the progression of a
symptom of the disease), or reverse a symptom of the disease. Thus, it is not generally practicable to
specify an exact "effective amount". However, for any given case, an appropriate "effective amount"
can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using only routine experimentation.
[00165]      Effective amounts, toxicity, and therapeutic efficacy can be determined by standard
pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g., for determining the LD50
(the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED50 (the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of
the population). The dosage can vary depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of
administration utilized. The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index
and can be expressed as the ratio LD50/ED50. Compositions and methods that exhibit large
therapeutic indices are preferred. A therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell
culture assays. Also, a dose can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma
concentration range that includes the IC50 (i.e., the concentration of the composition which achieves a
half-maximal inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell culture, or in an appropriate animal
model. Levels in plasma can be measured, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography.
The effects of any particular dosage can be monitored by a suitable bioassay, e.g., assay for the level
of free heme in the blood of a subject, among others. The dosage can be determined by a physician
and adjusted, as necessary, to suit observed effects of the treatment.
[00166]      In some embodiments, the technology described herein relates to a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a heme-binding molecule and/or composition as described herein, and
optionally a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and diluents
include saline, aqueous buffer solutions, solvents and/or dispersion media. The use of such carriers
and diluents is well known in the art. Some non-limiting examples of materials which can serve as
pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers include: (1) sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; (2)
starches, such as corn starch and potato starch; (3) cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium
                                                    42

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
carboxymethyl cellulose, methylcellulose, ethyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose and cellulose
acetate; (4) powdered tragacanth; (5) malt; (6) gelatin; (7) lubricating agents, such as magnesium
stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate and talc; (8) excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; (9)
oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean oil;
(10) glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol and
polyethylene glycol (PEG); (12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; (13) agar; (14) buffering
agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; (15) alginic acid; (16) pyrogen-free
water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer's solution; (19) ethyl alcohol; (20) pH buffered solutions; (21)
polyesters, polycarbonates and/or polyanhydrides; (22) bulking agents, such as polypeptides and
amino acids (23) serum component, such as serum albumin, HDL and LDL; (22) C2 -Cn alcohols,
such as ethanol; and (23) other non-toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical
formulations. Wetting agents, coloring agents, release agents, coating agents, sweetening agents,
flavoring agents, perfuming agents, preservative and antioxidants can also be present in the
formulation. The terms such as "excipient", "carrier", "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" or the
like are used interchangeably herein. In some embodiments, the carrier inhibits the degradation of the
active agent, e.g. the heme-binding composition as described herein.
[00167] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprising a heme-binding
molecule and/or composition as described herein can be a parenteral dose form. Since administration
of parenteral dosage forms typically bypasses the patient's natural defenses against contaminants,
parenteral dosage forms are preferably sterile or capable of being sterilized prior to administration to a
patient. Examples of parenteral dosage forms include, but are not limited to, solutions ready for
injection, dry products ready to be dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle
for injection, suspensions ready for injection, and emulsions. In addition, controlled-release parenteral
dosage forms can be prepared for administration of a patient, including, but not limited to, DUROS*
type dosage forms and dose-dumping.
[00168]    Suitable vehicles that can be used to provide parenteral dosage forms of a heme-binding
molecule and/or composition as disclosed within are well known to those skilled in the art. Examples
include, without limitation: sterile water; water for injection USP; saline solution; glucose solution;
aqueous vehicles such as but not limited to, sodium chloride injection, Ringer's injection, dextrose
Injection, dextrose and sodium chloride injection, and lactated Ringer's injection; water-miscible
vehicles such as, but not limited to, ethyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, and propylene glycol; and non
aqueous vehicles such as, but not limited to, corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, sesame oil, ethyl
oleate, isopropyl myristate, and benzyl benzoate. Compounds that alter or modify the solubility of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt can also be incorporated into the parenteral dosage forms of the
disclosure, including conventional and controlled-release parenteral dosage forms.
                                                    43

     WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
[00169]       The methods described herein can further comprise administering a second agent and/or
treatment to the subject, e.g. as part of a combinatorial therapy. Non-limiting examples of a second
agent and/or treatment can include antibiotics, fluid replacement, ultrafiltration, hemofiltration,
dialysis, hemodialysis, hemodiafiltration, mechanical ventilation, insulin to control blood sugar levels,
and vasopressors.
[00170]       In some embodiments, treatment can comprise blood filtration of a subject in need of
treatment for sepsis, as described above herein. In some embodiments, the filtration is performed
extracoporeally.
[00171] In certain embodiments, an effective dose of a composition comprising a heme-binding
molecule and/or composition as described herein can be administered to a patient, or the patient
subjected to blood filtration using a heme-binding composition described herein, once. In certain
embodiments, an effective dose of a composition comprising a heme-binding molecule and/or
composition as described herein can be administered to a patient, or the patient subjected to blood
filtration using a heme-binding composition described herein, repeatedly. For systemic administration,
subjects can be administered a therapeutic amount of a composition comprising a heme-binding
molecule and/or composition, such as, e.g. 0.1 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg, 2.0 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, 5
mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, 30 mg/kg, 40 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, or more.
[00172] In some embodiments, after an initial treatment regimen, the treatments can be administered
on a less frequent basis. For example, after treatment biweekly for three months, treatment can be
repeated once per month, for six months or a year or longer. Treatment according to the methods
described herein can reduce levels of a marker or symptom of a condition, e.g. sepsis by at least 10%,
at least 15%, at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least
70%, at least 80 % or at least 90% or more.
[00173] The dosage of a composition as described herein can be determined by a physician and
adjusted, as necessary, to suit observed effects of the treatment. With respect to duration and
frequency of treatment, it is typical for skilled clinicians to monitor subjects in order to determine
when the treatment is providing therapeutic benefit, and to determine whether to increase or decrease
dosage, increase or decrease administration frequency, discontinue treatment, resume treatment, or
make other alterations to the treatment regimen. The dosing schedule can vary from once a week to
daily depending on a number of clinical factors, such as the subject's sensitivity to heme levels. The
desired dose or amount of activation can be administered at one time or divided into subdoses, e.g., 2
4 subdoses and administered over a period of time, e.g., at appropriate intervals through the day or
other appropriate schedule. In some embodiments, administration can be chronic, e.g., one or more
doses and/or treatments daily over a period of weeks or months. Examples of dosing and/or treatment
schedules are administration daily, twice daily, three times daily or four or more times daily over a
period of 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, or 6
                                                     44

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
months, or more. A composition comprising a heme-binding molecule and/or composition can be
administered over a period of time, such as over a 5 minute, 10 minute, 15 minute, 20 minute, or 25
minute period.
[00174] The dosage ranges for the administration of a heme-binding molecule and/or composition
according to the methods described herein depend upon, for example, the form of the polypeptide, its
potency, and the extent to which symptoms, markers, or indicators of a condition described herein are
desired to be reduced, for example the percentage reduction desired for free heme levels in the blood.
The dosage should not be so large as to cause adverse side effects. Generally, the dosage will vary
with the age, condition, and sex of the patient and can be determined by one of skill in the art. The
dosage can also be adjusted by the individual physician in the event of any complication.
[00175] The efficacy of a heme-binding molecule and/or composition in, e.g. the treatment of a
condition described herein, or to induce a response as described herein (e.g. a decrease in free heme
levels in the blood) can be determined by the skilled clinician. However, a treatment is considered
"effective treatment," as the term is used herein, if one or more of the signs or symptoms of a
condition described herein are altered in a beneficial manner, other clinically accepted symptoms are
improved, or even ameliorated, or a desired response is induced e.g., by at least 10% following
treatment according to the methods described herein. Efficacy can be assessed, for example, by
measuring a marker, indicator, symptom, and/or the incidence of a condition treated according to the
methods described herein or any other measurable parameter appropriate, e.g. the level of free heme
in the blood. Efficacy can also be measured by a failure of an individual to worsen as assessed by
hospitalization, or need for medical interventions (i.e., progression of the disease is halted). Methods
of measuring these indicators are known to those of skill in the art and/or are described herein.
Treatment includes any treatment of a disease in an individual or an animal (some non-limiting
examples include a human or an animal) and includes: (1) inhibiting the disease, e.g., preventing a
worsening of symptoms (e.g. pain or inflammation); or (2) relieving the severity of the disease, e.g.,
causing regression of symptoms. An effective amount for the treatment of a disease means that
amount which, when administered to a subject in need thereof, is sufficient to result in effective
treatment as that term is defined herein, for that disease. Efficacy of an agent can be determined by
assessing physical indicators of a condition or desired response, (e.g. a decrease in free heme levels in
the blood) It is well within the ability of one skilled in the art to monitor efficacy of administration
and/or treatment by measuring any one of such parameters, or any combination of parameters.
Efficacy can be assessed in animal models of a condition described herein, for example treatment of
sepsis. When using an experimental animal model, efficacy of treatment is evidenced when a
statistically significant change in a marker is observed, e.g. the level of free heme in the blood.
                                                     45

    WO 2014/190040                                                                     PCT/US2014/038945
[00176] In vitro assays are provided herein which allow the assessment of a given dose of a
composition. The efficacy of a given dosage combination can also be assessed in an animal model,
e.g. an animal model of sepsis.
[00177]       For convenience, the meaning of some terms and phrases used in the specification,
examples, and appended claims, are provided below. Unless stated otherwise, or implicit from
context, the following terms and phrases include the meanings provided below. The definitions are
provided to aid in describing particular embodiments, and are not intended to limit the claimed
invention, because the scope of the invention is limited only by the claims. Unless otherwise defined,
all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one
of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. If there is an apparent discrepancy
between the usage of a term in the art and its definition provided herein, the definition provided
within the specification shall prevail.
[00178]       For convenience, certain terms employed herein, in the specification, examples and
appended claims are collected here.
[00179]       The terms "decrease", "reduced", "reduction", or "inhibit" are all used herein to mean a
decrease by a statistically significant amount. In some embodiments, "reduce," "reduction" or
"decrease" or "inhibit" typically means a decrease by at least 10% as compared to a reference level
(e.g. the absence of a given treatment) and can include, for example, a decrease by at least about 10%,
at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about 35%, at least about 40%, at
least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about 65%, at
least about 70%, at least about 75%, at least about 80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at
least about 95%, at least about 98%, at least about 99% , or more. As used herein, "reduction" or
"inhibition" does not encompass a complete inhibition or reduction as compared to a reference level.
"Complete inhibition" is a 100% inhibition as compared to a reference level. A decrease can be
preferably down to a level accepted as within the range of normal for an individual without a given
disorder.
[00180]       The terms "increased", "increase", "enhance", or "activate" are all used herein to mean an
increase by a statically significant amount. In some embodiments, the terms "increased", "increase",
"enhance", or "activate" can mean an increase of at least 10% as compared to a reference level, for
example an increase of at least about 20%, or at least about 30%, or at least about 40%, or at least
about 50%, or at least about 60%, or at least about 7 0%, or at least about 80%, or at least about 90%
or up to and including a 100% increase or any increase between 10-l100% as compared to a reference
level, or at least about a 2-fold, or at least about a 3-fold, or at least about a 4-fold, or at least about a
5-fold or at least about a 10-fold increase, or any increase between 2-fold and 10-fold or greater as
compared to a reference level. In the context of a marker or symptom, a "increase" is a statistically
significant increase in such level.
                                                      46

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
[00181]       As used herein, a "subject" means a human or animal. Usually the animal is a vertebrate
such as a primate, rodent, domestic animal or game animal. Primates include chimpanzees,
cynomologous monkeys, spider monkeys, and macaques, e.g., Rhesus. Rodents include mice, rats,
woodchucks, ferrets, rabbits and hamsters. Domestic and game animals include cows, horses, pigs,
deer, bison, buffalo, feline species, e.g., domestic cat, canine species, e.g., dog, fox, wolf, avian
species, e.g., chicken, emu, ostrich, and fish, e.g., trout, catfish and salmon. In some embodiments,
the subject is a mammal, e.g., a primate, e.g., a human. The terms, "individual," "patient" and
"subject" are used interchangeably herein.
[00182]       Preferably, the subject is a mammal. The mammal can be a human, non-human primate,
mouse, rat, dog, cat, horse, or cow, but is not limited to these examples. Mammals other than
humans can be advantageously used as subjects that represent animal models of sepsis. A subject can
be male or female.
[00183]       As used herein, "heme" refers to protoporhyrin IX (i.e. a compound having the structure
of Formula I) bound to Fe . In some embodiments, "heme" can additionally refer to hemin (i.e. the
chloride salt of protoporphyrin IX-Fe 3) and/or hematin (i.e. protoporphyrin IX-Fe3 hydroxide).
                                    (Formula I)
[00184]       As used herein, a "portion" refers to a part or fraction of a whole, e.g. a part or fraction of
a total molecule. A particular molecule can have multiple portions, e.g. two portions, three portions,
four portions, five portions, or more portions.
[00185]       A subject can be one who has been previously diagnosed with or identified as suffering
from or having a condition in need of treatment (e.g. sepsis) or one or more complications related to
such a condition, and optionally, have already undergone treatment for sepsis or the one or more
complications related to sepsis. Alternatively, a subject can also be one who has not been previously
diagnosed as having sepsis or one or more complications related to sepsis. For example, a subject
can be one who exhibits one or more risk factors for sepsis or one or more complications related to
sepsis or a subject who does not exhibit risk factors.
                                                     47

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
[00186]       A "subject in need" of treatment for a particular condition can be a subject having that
condition, diagnosed as having that condition, or at risk of developing that condition.
[00187]       As used herein, the terms "protein" and "polypeptide" are used interchangeably herein to
designate a series of amino acid residues, connected to each other by peptide bonds between the
alpha-amino and carboxy groups of adjacent residues. The terms "protein", and "polypeptide" refer to
a polymer of amino acids, including modified amino acids (e.g., phosphorylated, glycated,
glycosylated, etc.) and amino acid analogs, regardless of its size or function. "Protein" and
"polypeptide" are often used in reference to relatively large polypeptides, whereas the term "peptide"
is often used in reference to small polypeptides, but usage of these terms in the art overlaps. The terms
"protein" and "polypeptide" are used interchangeably herein when referring to a gene product and
fragments thereof. Thus, exemplary polypeptides or proteins include gene products, naturally
occurring proteins, homologs, orthologs, paralogs, fragments and other equivalents, variants,
fragments, and analogs of the foregoing.
[00188]       As used herein, the term "nucleic acid" or "nucleic acid sequence" refers to any molecule,
preferably a polymeric molecule, incorporating units of ribonucleic acid, deoxyribonucleic acid or an
analog thereof. The nucleic acid can be either single-stranded or double-stranded. A single-stranded
nucleic acid can be one nucleic acid strand of a denatured double- stranded DNA. Alternatively, it can
be a single-stranded nucleic acid not derived from any double-stranded DNA. In one aspect, the
nucleic acid can be DNA. In another aspect, the nucleic acid can be RNA. Suitable nucleic acid
molecules are DNA, including genomic DNA or cDNA. Other suitable nucleic acid molecules are
RNA, including mRNA.
[00189]       As used herein, the terms "treat," "treatment," "treating," or "amelioration" refer to
therapeutic treatments, wherein the object is to reverse, alleviate, ameliorate, inhibit, slow down or
stop the progression or severity of a condition associated with a disease or disorder, e.g. sepsis. The
term "treating" includes reducing or alleviating at least one adverse effect or symptom of a condition,
disease or disorder associated with sepsis. Treatment is generally "effective" if one or more
symptoms or clinical markers are reduced. Alternatively, treatment is "effective" if the progression of
a disease is reduced or halted. That is, "treatment" includes not just the improvement of symptoms or
markers, but also a cessation of, or at least slowing of, progress or worsening of symptoms compared
to what would be expected in the absence of treatment. Beneficial or desired clinical results include,
but are not limited to, alleviation of one or more symptom(s), diminishment of extent of disease,
stabilized (i.e., not worsening) state of disease, delay or slowing of disease progression, amelioration
or palliation of the disease state, remission (whether partial or total), and/or decreased mortality,
whether detectable or undetectable. The term "treatment" of a disease also includes providing relief
from the symptoms or side-effects of the disease (including palliative treatment).
                                                     48

    WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
[00190]      As used herein, the term "pharmaceutical composition" refers to the active agent in
combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier e.g. a carrier commonly used in the
pharmaceutical industry. The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" is employed herein to refer to
those compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms which are, within the scope of sound
medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals without
excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other problem or complication, commensurate with
a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
[00191]      As used herein, the term "administering," refers to the placement of a compound as
disclosed herein into a subject by a method or route which results in at least partial delivery of the
agent at a desired site. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds disclosed herein can
be administered by any appropriate route which results in an effective treatment in the subject.
[00192]      The term "statistically significant" or "significantly" refers to statistical significance and
generally means a two standard deviation (2SD) or greater difference.
[00193]      Other than in the operating examples, or where otherwise indicated, all numbers
expressing quantities of ingredients or reaction conditions used herein should be understood as
modified in all instances by the term "about." The term "about" when used in connection with
percentages can mean +10%.
[00194]      As used herein the term "comprising" or "comprises" is used in reference to
compositions, methods, and respective component(s) thereof, that are essential to the method or
composition, yet open to the inclusion of unspecified elements, whether essential or not.
[00195]      The term "consisting of' refers to compositions, methods, and respective components
thereof as described herein, which are exclusive of any element not recited in that description of the
embodiment.
[00196]      As used herein the term "consisting essentially of' refers to those elements required for a
given embodiment. The term permits the presence of elements that do not materially affect the basic
and novel or functional characteristic(s) of that embodiment.
[00197] The singular terms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless context clearly
indicates otherwise. Similarly, the word "or" is intended to include "and" unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein
can be used in the practice or testing of this disclosure, suitable methods and materials are described
below. The abbreviation, "e.g." is derived from the Latin exempli gratia, and is used herein to indicate
a non-limiting example. Thus, the abbreviation "e.g." is synonymous with the term "for example."
[00198]      Definitions of common terms in cell biology and molecular biology can be found in "The
Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy", 19th Edition, published by Merck Research Laboratories,
2006 (ISBN 0-911910-19-0); Robert S. Porter et al. (eds.), The Encyclopedia of Molecular Biology,
published by Blackwell Science Ltd., 1994 (ISBN 0-632-02182-9); Benjamin Lewin, Genes X,
                                                     49

     WO 2014/190040                                                                 PCT/US2014/038945
published by Jones & Bartlett Publishing, 2009 (ISBN-10: 0763766321); Kendrew et al. (eds.), ,
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology: a Comprehensive Desk Reference, published by VCH
Publishers, Inc., 1995 (ISBN 1-56081-569-8) and Current Protocols in Protein Sciences 2009, Wiley
Intersciences, Coligan et al., eds.
[00199]       Unless otherwise stated, the present invention was performed using standard procedures,
as described, for example in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual (3 ed.), Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., USA (2001); Davis et al., Basic Methods
in Molecular Biology, Elsevier Science Publishing, Inc., New York, USA (1995); Current Protocols
in Protein Science (CPPS) (John E. Coligan, et. al., ed., John Wiley and Sons, Inc.), Current Protocols
in Cell Biology (CPCB) (Juan S. Bonifacino et. al. ed., John Wiley and Sons, Inc.), and Culture of
Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic Technique by R. Ian Freshney, Publisher: Wiley-Liss; 5th edition
(2005), Animal Cell Culture Methods (Methods in Cell Biology, Vol. 57, Jennie P. Mather and David
Barnes editors, Academic Press, 1st edition, 1998) which are all incorporated by reference herein in
their entireties.
[00200]       Other terms are defined herein within the description of the various aspects of the
invention.
[00201]       All patents and other publications; including literature references, issued patents,
published patent applications, and co-pending patent applications; cited throughout this application
are expressly incorporated herein by reference for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for
example, the methodologies described in such publications that might be used in connection with the
technology described herein. These publications are provided solely for their disclosure prior to the
filing date of the present application. Nothing in this regard should be construed as an admission that
the inventors are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention or for any other
reason. All statements as to the date or representation as to the contents of these documents is based
on the information available to the applicants and does not constitute any admission as to the
correctness of the dates or contents of these documents.
[00202]       The description of embodiments of the disclosure is not intended to be exhaustive or to
limit the disclosure to the precise form disclosed. While specific embodiments of, and examples for,
the disclosure are described herein for illustrative purposes, various equivalent modifications are
possible within the scope of the disclosure, as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For
example, while method steps or functions are presented in a given order, alternative embodiments
may perform functions in a different order, or functions may be performed substantially concurrently.
The teachings of the disclosure provided herein can be applied to other procedures or methods as
appropriate. The various embodiments described herein can be combined to provide further
embodiments. Aspects of the disclosure can be modified, if necessary, to employ the compositions,
functions and concepts of the above references and application to provide yet further embodiments of
                                                    50

    WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
the disclosure. Moreover, due to biological functional equivalency considerations, some changes can
be made in protein structure without affecting the biological or chemical action in kind or amount.
These and other changes can be made to the disclosure in light of the detailed description. All such
modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.
[00203]       Specific elements of any of the foregoing embodiments can be combined or substituted
for elements in other embodiments. Furthermore, while advantages associated with certain
embodiments of the disclosure have been described in the context of these embodiments, other
embodiments may also exhibit such advantages, and not all embodiments need necessarily exhibit
such advantages to fall within the scope of the disclosure.
[00204]      The technology described herein is further illustrated by the following examples which in
no way should be construed as being further limiting.
[00205]       Some embodiments of the technology described herein can be defined according to any of
the following numbered paragraphs:
     1. An engineered heme-binding molecule comprising a hemopexin domain and a second domain
         selected from the group consisting of:
                  a linker; a microbe-binding molecule ; and/or a substrate binding domain;
                  wherein the second domain is conjugated to the hemopexin domain.
    2. The engineered heme-binding molecule of paragraph 1, wherein the substrate binding domain
         is an Fc domain or AKT.
    3. A heme-binding composition comprising a hemopexin domain conjugated to an Fc domain.
    4. The molecule or composition of any of paragraphs 1-3, further comprising a detectable label.
    5. A composition comprising the heme-binding molecule or heme-binding composition of any
         of paragraphs 1-4 and further comprising a microbe-binding domain.
    6.   The composition of paragraphs 1 or 5, wherein the microbe-binding domain is selected from
         the group consisiting of:
                  MBL and CRP.
    7. The composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-6, further comprising a solid substrate or
         support to which the heme-binding molecule or composition is conjugated.
     8. The composition or molecule of paragraph 7, wherein the solid substrate or support is a
         hollow fiber.
    9.   The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
         domain is a polypeptide comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
     10. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-9, wherein the hemopexin
         domain is a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
                                                   51

WO 2014/190040                                                              PCT/US2014/038945
11. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 27-233 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
12. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8 wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 1-233 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
13. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 27-220 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
14. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 1-220 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
15. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 27-213 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
16. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 1-213 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
17. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-16, wherein the
    hemopexin domain comprises a mutation wherein the residues corresponding to residues 220
    226 of SEQ ID NO: 2 have been replaced with a polypeptide linker of about 1-10 amino acids
    in length.
18. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-17, wherein the
    hemopexin domain comprises a mutation wherein the residues corresponding to residues 220
    226 of SEQ ID NO: 2 have been replaced with the sequence GSGS (SEQ ID NO: 18).
19. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-18, wherein the Fc
    domain is a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8, SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO:
    17.
20. A heme-binding composition of paragraph 3 having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ
    ID NO: 5.
21. A method of reducing the level of free heme in the blood of a subject, the method comprising
    contacting the blood of the subject with the heme-binding composition or molecule of any of
    paragraphs 1-20 or a molecule comprising a hemopexin domain.
22. A method of treating sepsis, the method comprising administering an effective amount of a
    heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-20 or a molecule comprising a
    hemopexin domain.
                                              52

WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
23. A method of reducing the level of myoglobin in the blood of a subject, the method comprising
    contacting the blood of the subject with the heme-binding composition or molecule of any of
    paragraphs 1-20 or a molecule comprising a hemopexin domain.
24. A method of treating rhabdomyolysis or crush injury, the method comprising administering
    an effective amount of a heme-binding composition or molecule of any of paragraphs 1-20 or
    a molecule comprising a hemopexin domain.
25. The method of any of paragraphs 22 or 24, wherein the administration comprises contacting
    the blood of the subject with the heme-binding composition or molecule comprising a
    hemopexin domain.
26. The method of any of paragraphs 21-25, further comprising removing a portion of the
    subject's blood prior to the contacting step and performing the contacting step
    extracorporeally and then returning the portion of the subject's blood to the subject.
27. The method of paragraph 26, wherein the heme-binding composition or molecule comprising
    a hemopexin domain is bound to a solid substrate of an extracorporeal device.
28. The method of paragraph 27, wherein the solid substrate is a filter, affinity column, bear, or
    particle.
29. The method of any of paragraphs 21-28, wherein the molecule comprising a hemopexin
    domain is a molecule consisting essentially of a hemopexin domain.
30. The method of any of paragraphs 21-29, wherein the molecule comprising a hemopexin
    domain is a molecule consisting of a hemopexin domain.
31. The method of any of paragraphs 21-30, wherein the molecule comprising a hemopexin
    domain has the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOs: 1-2 or 9-16.
32. A method of producing a heme-binding composition or molecule, the method comprising:
              culturing a cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding a heme-binding composition or
              molecule of any of paragraphs 1-20 under conditions suitable for the production of
              proteins;
              and purifying the heme-binding composition or molecule by affinity purification with
              an stabilization domain binding reagent, ion exchange purification, or size based
              purification.
33. The method of paragraph 32, wherein the cell is selected from the group consisting of:
              a microbial cell; a mammalian cell; an insect cell; and a plant cell.
34. A method of producing a heme-binding molecule or composition, the method comprising:
              maintaining a nucleic acid encoding a heme-binding composition or molecule of any
              of paragraphs 1-20 under in vitro transcription and / or in vitro translation conditions
              suitable for the production of proteins;
                                                53

    WO 2014/190040                                                                  PCT/US2014/038945
                  and purifying the heme-binding composition by affinity purification with an
                  stabilization domain binding reagent, ion exchange purification, or size based
                  purification.
                                                 EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1: Fc fusions to Hemopexin and Hemopexin fragments for the treatment of Sepsis.
[00206]       Sepsis is a lethal condition that is often associated with a serious microbial infection.
However, while many hypotheses have been put forward, the exact cause of septic shock is not agreed
upon and therapeutics based on targeting the source of these various hypotheses have generally failed
in (or prior to) clinical trials. Studies have recently suggested that excess free heme in the blood
appears to play a role in the progression of sepsis and mechanism to remove the excess heme from
blood could be very useful for patients suffering from sepsis. Host antimicrobial mechanisms reduce
iron availability to pathogens. Iron proteins influencing the innate immune response include hepcidin,
lactoferrin, siderocalin, haptoglobin, hemopexin, Nramp 1, ferroportin and the transferrin receptor(1).
[00207]       Under normal physiological conditions the protein hemopexin is responsible for binding
free heme and activating the liver to remove the excess free heme from circulation. In a septic patient
or animal, microbial infections can lead to a large increase in Red Blood Cell (RBS) lysis, which in
turn leads to a significant increase in soluble free heme in the blood stream. This increase
overwhelms the endogenous levels of hemopexin leading to dangerously high levels of heme. Excess
heme in the blood provides microbial pathogens with a readily available source of iron, which can be
limiting agent in microbial growth and hemoglobin and heme may substantially contribute to
microbe-induced inflammation when bacterial or viral infection coexists with blood(2). In addition,
free heme can have negative effects on an individual, although the exact mechanism has not been
wholly determined.
[00208]       At present there are no strategies to deal directly with high heme in the blood. The
current treatment generally includes administration of antibiotics. Past clinical trials have focused on
limiting the immune systems response to microbial infections, thereby reducing the "Cytokine Storm"
that has been hypothesized to be the causative agent of sepsis. In addition, people have looked to use
dialysis to remove soluble cytokines-also to remove cytokines.
[00209]       Described herein are Fc fusions to endogenous or engineered versions of endogenous
proteins to target heme for removal without introducing an immunogenic agent. Both full-length
hemopexin and the amino terminal domain of hemopexin have been shown to bind heme with binding
constants of 1pM and InM respectively. Described herein is the design and production of an Fc
fusion to full-length human hemopexin,Fc fusions to multiple fragments of the N-terminal domain of
human hemopexin and an Fc fusion to full length hemopexin where the linker connecting the two
structural domains is replaced with a different polypeptide linker.
                                                      54

    WO 2014/190040                                                              PCT/US2014/038945
[00210]      Expression and purification of recombinant versions of many endogenous proteins can be
difficult and most experiments with hemopexin have used hemopexin purified from blood(3).
[00211]       Sequences of Fc-Hemopexin fusions:
> aktFcHemopexin; A fusion protein of the following motifs listed from N-terminus to C-terminus:
the tripeptide Ala-Lys-Thr, the neck and Fc region of human IgGI (N297D), a single alanine
insertion, human hemopexin (with the leader sequence removed) (SEQ ID NO:3).
AKTEPKSSDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYDSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTIS
KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGATPLPPTSAHGNVAE
GETKPDPDVTERCSDGWSFDATTLDDNGTMLFFKGEFVWKSHKWDRELISERWKNFPSPVD
AAFRQGHNSVFLIKGDKVWVYPPEKKEKGYPKLLQDEFPGIPSPLDAAVECHRGECQAEGVL
FFQGDREWFWDLATGTMKERSWPAVGNCSSALRWLGRYYCFQGNQFLRFDPVRGEVPPRY
PRDVRDYFMPCPGRGHGHRNGTGHGNSTHHGPEYMRCSPHLVLSALTSDNHGATYAFSGTH
YWRLDTSRDGWHSWPIAHQWPQGPSAVDAAFSWEEKLYLVQGTQVYVFLTKGGYTLVSG
YPKRLEKEVGTPHGIILDSVDAAFICPGSSRLHIMAGRRLWWLDLKSGAQATWTELPWPHEK
VDGALCMEKSLGPNSCSANGPGLYLIHGPNLYCYSDVEKLNAAKALPQPQNVTSLLGCTH
> aktFcHemopexinNT: A fusion protein of the following motifs listed from N-terminus to C
terminus: the tripeptide Ala-Lys-Thr, the neck and Fc region of human IgGI (N297D), a single
alanine insertion, the N-terminal domain of human hemopexin (residues 24-256 of the expressed
protein) (SEQ ID NO: 4).
AKTEPKSSDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYDSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTIS
KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGATPLPPTSAHGNVAE
GETKPDPDVTERCSDGWSFDATTLDDNGTMLFFKGEFVWKSHKWDRELISERWKNFPSPVD
AAFRQGHNSVFLIKGDKVWVYPPEKKEKGYPKLLQDEFPGIPSPLDAAVECHRGECQAEGVL
FFQGDREWFWDLATGTMKERSWPAVGNCSSALRWLGRYYCFQGNQFLRFDPVRGEVPPRY
PRDVRDYFMPCPGRGHGHRNGTGHGNSTHHGPEYMR
[00212]      The AKT tripeptide at the N-terminus of the Fc permits site-specific modification of the
protein and is optional. The N297D mutation generates an agylcosylated version of the Fc fragment,
the wild type asparagine (N297) can be used depending on the glycosylation state desired for
expression and Fc Receptor interactions.
[00213]      Expression and PurificationofFc-Hemopexinfusions. The above genes were cloned into
a mammalian expression vector and transfected into 293F cells (Invitrogen). Five days later the
supernatant was collected and loaded onto a Protein A column (GE). Fc containing proteins bound to
                                                 55

   WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
Protein A were eluted in low pH buffer and neutralized to pH 7. The amount of purified protein was
quantified and run on an SDS gel to confirm its purity (Table 1 and Fig. 1).
[00214]      Table 1
Protein                             Predicted MW            Yield (per liter of cell
                                                            culture)
FcHemopexin                         76 kDa                   17 mg
FcHemopexin-NT                      53 kDa                  30 mg
FcHemopexin-G220                    51 kDa                   15 mg
FcHemopexin-H213                    51 kDa                   10 mg
FcHemopexin-T24                     73 kDa                   1 mg
HemopexinG220H226GSGS               75 kDa                  4 mg
[00215]      Binding of Fc-Hemopexinfusions tofree Hemin (Hemin is a chloride ion of heme). Fc
Hemopexin, Fc-Hemopexin-NT, FcHemopexin-G220, FcHemopexin-H213 and FcHemopexin
G220H226GSGS all bind free hemin and the binding of hemin to Fc-Hemopexin is indistinguishable
from hemin binding to native human Hemopexin (Figs. 2, 4, and 5).
[00216]      References
1.      E. E. Johnson, M. Wessling-Resnick, Iron metabolism and the innate immune response to
        infection. Microbes and infection /Institut Pasteur14, 207 (Mar, 2012).
2.      T. Lin et al., Synergistic inflammation is induced by blood degradation products with
        microbial Toll-like receptor agonists and is blocked by hemopexin. The Journalof infectious
        diseases 202, 624 (Aug 15, 2010).
3.      M. R. Mauk, A. Smith, A. G. Mauk, An alternative view of the proposed alternative activities
        of hemopexin. Protein science : a publicationof the Protein Society 20, 791 (May, 2011).
4.      K. M. Lo et al., High level expression and secretion of Fc-X fusion proteins in mammalian
        cells. Protein engineering11, 495 (Jun, 1998).
[00217]      EXAMPLE 2
[00218]      Different FcHx contructs' binding to Myoglobin were determined (Table 2).
                                                   56

    WO 2014/190040                                                              PCT/US2014/038945
[00219]      The polypeptides described in Table 2 were fused to the C-terminus of SEQ ID NO: 17,
which comprises the Fe fragment of human IgG with an alanine-lysine-threonine tripeptide on the N
terminus and a single alanine on the C-terminus. Table 2 summarizes the expression and binding data
from these proteins.
[00220]      The heme Binding of Fe fusions with variants of the N-terminal domain of Hemopexin
was determined (Fig. 3). Free Heme was incubated with the specified protein and then Free Heme was
detected indirectly using an enzymatic heme dependent peroxidase reaction. Heme Binding of Fc
Fusions with variants of Full Length Hemopexin was also determined (Fig. 4).
[00221]      FcHemopexin variants' binding to myoglobin was determined (Fig. 5). Myoglobin was
coated in assay wells and then incubated with various protein probes, including the Fc Hemopexin
fusions, the Fc alone (negative control), recombinant hemopexin and an anti-myoglobin antibody
(positive control). The binding of the protein probe was then assayed using a horse radish peroxidase
detection system and the data for each protein probe was compared to wells coated with no
Myoglobin.
[00222]      Table 2
                           SEQ ID
                              NO:    Starting    Last                    Heme     Myoglobin
   Fc fusion Protein                 Reside*   Residue* Expression      Binding     Binding
Hemopexin                       1   1         439       +             +          +
HemopexinNT                     9   1         233       +             +          +
HemopexinT24                   10   24        439       +             NA         NA
HemopexinS28                   11   28        439        -            NA         NA
HemopexinNTG220                12   1         220       +             +          +
HemopexinNTH213                13   1         213       +             +          +
HemopexinNTG212                14   1         212        -            NA         NA
HemopexinNTP207                15   1         207        -            NA         NA
Hemopexin mut3                 16   1         439       +             +          +
G220H226GSGS**
           * Starting and Ending residues use the numbering system of mature
           human hemopexin
           ** Residues from gly 220 to thr 219 replaced with a gly
           ser-gly-ser linker
                                                  57

    WO 2014/190040                                                          PCT/US2014/038945
[00223]     The general ELISA reagents and conditions were as follows: Wash buffer: PBS-T (175 ul
x 6); Incubation buffer: PBS; Pre-block= 1% Milk and PBS (RT for lhr); Incubation with Protein (RT
for lhr); Antibody-HRP buffer = 0.5% Milk in PBS (RT for 1 hr).
                                               58

 WO 2014/190040                                                                PCT/US2014/038945
What is claimed herein is:
  1. An engineered heme-binding molecule comprising a hemopexin domain and a second domain
       selected from the group consisting of:
               a linker; a microbe-binding molecule ; and/or a substrate binding domain;
               wherein the second domain is conjugated to the hemopexin domain.
  2. The engineered heme-binding molecule of claim 1, wherein the substrate binding domain is
       an Fc domain or AKT.
  3. A heme-binding composition comprising a hemopexin domain conjugated to an Fc domain.
  4. The molecule or composition of any of claims 1-3, further comprising a detectable label.
  5. A composition comprising the heme-binding molecule or heme-binding composition of any
       of claims 1-4 and further comprising a microbe-binding domain.
  6.   The composition of claims 1 or 5, wherein the microbe-binding domain is selected from the
       group consisiting of:
               MBL and CRP.
  7. The composition or molecule of any of claims 1-6, further comprising a solid substrate or
       support to which the heme-binding molecule or composition is conjugated.
  8. The composition or molecule of claim 7, wherein the solid substrate or support is a hollow
       fiber.
  9.   The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
       domain is a polypeptide comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
  10. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-9, wherein the hemopexin
       domain is a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2.
  11. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
       domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 27-233 of SEQ
       ID NO: 2.
  12. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8 wherein the hemopexin
       domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 1-233 of SEQ
       ID NO: 2.
  13. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
       domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 27-220 of SEQ
       ID NO: 2.
  14. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
       domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 1-220 of SEQ
       ID NO: 2.
                                               59

WO 2014/190040                                                              PCT/US2014/038945
15. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 27-213 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
16. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-8, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a polypeptide having a sequence corresponding to residues 1-213 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2.
17. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-16, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a mutation wherein the residues corresponding to residues 220-226 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2 have been replaced with a polypeptide linker of about 1-10 amino acids in length.
18. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-17, wherein the hemopexin
    domain comprises a mutation wherein the residues corresponding to residues 220-226 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2 have been replaced with the sequence GSGS (SEQ ID NO: 18).
19. The heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-18, wherein the Fc domain is a
    polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8, SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 17.
20. A heme-binding composition of claim 3 having the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ ID
    NO: 5.
21. A method of reducing the level of free heme in the blood of a subject, the method comprising
    contacting the blood of the subject with the heme-binding composition or molecule of any of
    claims 1-20 or a molecule comprising a hemopexin domain.
22. A method of treating sepsis, the method comprising administering an effective amount of a
    heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-20 or a molecule comprising a
    hemopexin domain.
23. A method of reducing the level of myoglobin in the blood of a subject, the method comprising
    contacting the blood of the subject with the heme-binding composition or molecule of any of
    claims 1-20 or a molecule comprising a hemopexin domain.
24. A method of treating rhabdomyolysis or crush injury, the method comprising administering
    an effective amount of a heme-binding composition or molecule of any of claims 1-20 or a
    molecule comprising a hemopexin domain.
25. The method of any of claims 22 or 24, wherein the administration comprises contacting the
    blood of the subject with the heme-binding composition or molecule comprising a hemopexin
    domain.
26. The method of any of claims 21-25, further comprising removing a portion of the subject's
    blood prior to the contacting step and performing the contacting step extracorporeally and
    then returning the portion of the subject's blood to the subject.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the heme-binding composition or molecule comprising a
    hemopexin domain is bound to a solid substrate of an extracorporeal device.
                                               60

WO 2014/190040                                                                   PCT/US2014/038945
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the solid substrate is a filter, affinity column, bear, or
    particle.
29. The method of any of claims 21-28, wherein the molecule comprising a hemopexin domain is
    a molecule consisting essentially of a hemopexin domain.
30. The method of any of claims 21-29, wherein the molecule comprising a hemopexin domain is
    a molecule consisting of a hemopexin domain.
31. The method of any of claims 21-30, wherein the molecule comprising a hemopexin domain
    has the sequence of any of SEQ ID NOs: 1-2 or 9-16.
32. A method of producing a heme-binding composition or molecule, the method comprising:
              culturing a cell comprising a nucleic acid encoding a heme-binding composition or
              molecule of any of claims 1-20 under conditions suitable for the production of
              proteins;
              and purifying the heme-binding composition or molecule by affinity purification with
              an stabilization domain binding reagent, ion exchange purification, or size based
              purification.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the cell is selected from the group consisting of:
              a microbial cell; a mammalian cell; an insect cell; and a plant cell.
34. A method of producing a heme-binding molecule or composition, the method comprising:
              maintaining a nucleic acid encoding a heme-binding composition or molecule of any
              of claims 1-20 under in vitro transcription and / or in vitro translation conditions
              suitable for the production of proteins;
              and purifying the heme-binding composition by affinity purification with an
              stabilization domain binding reagent, ion exchange purification, or size based
              purification.
                                                61

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                             SEQUENCE LISTING
<removed-date>
              <110> PRESIDENT AND FELLOWS OF HARVARD COLLEGE
              <120> ENGINEERED HEME<U+2701>BINDING COMPOSITIONS AND USES THEREOF
              <130> 002806<U+2701>076884<U+2701>AU
              <140>
              <141>
<removed-apn>
              <150> PCT/US2014/038945
              <151> 2014<U+2701>05<U+2701>21
              <150> 61/825,707
              <151> 2013<U+2701>05<U+2701>21
              <160> 35
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   462
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 1
              Met Ala Arg Val Leu Gly Ala Pro Val Ala Leu Gly Leu Trp Ser Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Trp Ser Leu Ala Ile Ala Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His
                          20                  25                  30
              Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu
                      35                  40                  45
              Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 1

<removed-date>
              Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr
                      115                 120                 125
              Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp
                  130                 135                 140
<removed-apn>
              Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr
                              165                 170                 175
              Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu
                          180                 185                 190
              Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val
                  210                 215                 220
              Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg Asn
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser Thr His His Gly Pro Glu Tyr Met Arg
                              245                 250                 255
              Cys Ser Pro His Leu Val Leu Ser Ala Leu Thr Ser Asp Asn His Gly
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala Thr Tyr Ala Phe Ser Gly Thr His Tyr Trp Arg Leu Asp Thr Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Arg Asp Gly Trp His Ser Trp Pro Ile Ala His Gln Trp Pro Gln Gly
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Ser Ala Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Ser Trp Glu Glu Lys Leu Tyr Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
                                                  Page 2

<removed-date>
              Val Gln Gly Thr Gln Val Tyr Val Phe Leu Thr Lys Gly Gly Tyr Thr
                              325                 330                 335
              Leu Val Ser Gly Tyr Pro Lys Arg Leu Glu Lys Glu Val Gly Thr Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              His Gly Ile Ile Leu Asp Ser Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Ile Cys Pro Gly
<removed-apn>
                      355                 360                 365
              Ser Ser Arg Leu His Ile Met Ala Gly Arg Arg Leu Trp Trp Leu Asp
                  370                 375                 380
              Leu Lys Ser Gly Ala Gln Ala Thr Trp Thr Glu Leu Pro Trp Pro His
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Glu Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Leu Cys Met Glu Lys Ser Leu Gly Pro Asn
                              405                 410                 415
              Ser Cys Ser Ala Asn Gly Pro Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile His Gly Pro Asn
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu Tyr Cys Tyr Ser Asp Val Glu Lys Leu Asn Ala Ala Lys Ala Leu
                      435                 440                 445
              Pro Gln Pro Gln Asn Val Thr Ser Leu Leu Gly Cys Thr His
                  450                 455                 460
              <210>   2
              <211>   233
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 2
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
                                                  Page 3

<removed-date>
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His His Gly Pro Glu Tyr Met Arg
              225                 230
              <210> 3
              <211> 674
              <212> PRT
                                                    Page 4

              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 3
              Ala Lys Thr Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asp Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
                                                  Page 5

<removed-date>
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
<removed-apn>
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Ala Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys Gly Glu Phe Val Trp
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn
                  290                 295                 300
              Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln Gly His Asn Ser Val
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro
                          340                 345                 350
              Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala
                      355                 360                 365
              Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro Ala Val Gly Asn Cys
              385                 390                 395                 400
                                                  Page 6

<removed-date>
              Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys Pro Gly Arg Gly His
<removed-apn>
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser Thr His His Gly Pro
                  450                 455                 460
              Glu Tyr Met Arg Cys Ser Pro His Leu Val Leu Ser Ala Leu Thr Ser
              465                 470                 475                 480
              Asp Asn His Gly Ala Thr Tyr Ala Phe Ser Gly Thr His Tyr Trp Arg
                              485                 490                 495
              Leu Asp Thr Ser Arg Asp Gly Trp His Ser Trp Pro Ile Ala His Gln
                          500                 505                 510
              Trp Pro Gln Gly Pro Ser Ala Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Ser Trp Glu Glu
                      515                 520                 525
              Lys Leu Tyr Leu Val Gln Gly Thr Gln Val Tyr Val Phe Leu Thr Lys
                  530                 535                 540
              Gly Gly Tyr Thr Leu Val Ser Gly Tyr Pro Lys Arg Leu Glu Lys Glu
              545                 550                 555                 560
              Val Gly Thr Pro His Gly Ile Ile Leu Asp Ser Val Asp Ala Ala Phe
                              565                 570                 575
              Ile Cys Pro Gly Ser Ser Arg Leu His Ile Met Ala Gly Arg Arg Leu
                          580                 585                 590
              Trp Trp Leu Asp Leu Lys Ser Gly Ala Gln Ala Thr Trp Thr Glu Leu
                      595                 600                 605
                                                  Page 7

              Pro Trp Pro His Glu Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Leu Cys Met Glu Lys Ser
<removed-date>
                  610                 615                 620
              Leu Gly Pro Asn Ser Cys Ser Ala Asn Gly Pro Gly Leu Tyr Leu Ile
              625                 630                 635                 640
              His Gly Pro Asn Leu Tyr Cys Tyr Ser Asp Val Glu Lys Leu Asn Ala
                              645                 650                 655
<removed-apn>
              Ala Lys Ala Leu Pro Gln Pro Gln Asn Val Thr Ser Leu Leu Gly Cys
                          660                 665                 670
              Thr His
              <210>   4
              <211>   468
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 4
              Ala Lys Thr Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asp Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
                              85                  90                  95
                                                  Page 8

<removed-date>
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Ala Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro
                              245                 250                 255
              Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr
                          260                 265                 270
              Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys Gly Glu Phe Val Trp
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn
                  290                 295                 300
                                                  Page 9

              Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln Gly His Asn Ser Val
<removed-date>
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys
                              325                 330                 335
              Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro
                          340                 345                 350
<removed-apn>
              Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala
                      355                 360                 365
              Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu
                  370                 375                 380
              Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro Ala Val Gly Asn Cys
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn
                              405                 410                 415
              Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr
                          420                 425                 430
              Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys Pro Gly Arg Gly His
                      435                 440                 445
              Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser Thr His His Gly Pro
                  450                 455                 460
              Glu Tyr Met Arg
              465
              <210>   5
              <211>   465
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
                                                  Page 10

              <400> 5
<removed-date>
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val
<removed-apn>
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Asp Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe
                      195                 200                 205
                                                  Page 11

              Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys
<removed-date>
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Ala Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr
                              245                 250                 255
<removed-apn>
              Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp
                          260                 265                 270
              Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His
                      275                 280                 285
              Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser
                  290                 295                 300
              Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly
                              325                 330                 335
              Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu
                          340                 345                 350
              Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val
                      355                 360                 365
              Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly
                  370                 375                 380
              Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu
                              405                 410                 415
              Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp
                                                  Page 12

                            420               425                 430
<removed-date>
              Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg
                      435                 440                 445
              Asn Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser Thr His His Gly Pro Glu Tyr Met
                  450                 455                 460
<removed-apn>
              Arg
              465
              <210>   6
              <211>   1635
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 6
              aactctatat agggagttca actggtcacc cagagctgtc ctgtggcctc tgcagctcag    60
              catggctagg gtactgggag cacccgttgc actggggttg tggagcctat gctggtctct   120
              ggccattgcc acccctcttc ctccgactag tgcccatggg aatgttgctg aaggcgagac   180
              caagccagac ccagacgtga ctgaacgctg ctcagatggc tggagctttg atgctaccac   240
              cctggatgac aatggaacca tgctgttttt taaaggggag tttgtgtgga agagtcacaa   300
              atgggaccgg gagttaatct cagagagatg gaagaatttc cccagccctg tggatgctgc   360
              attccgtcaa ggtcacaaca gtgtctttct gatcaagggg gacaaagtct gggtataccc   420
              tcctgaaaag aaggagaaag gatacccaaa gttgctccaa gatgaatttc ctggaatccc   480
              atccccactg gatgcagctg tggaatgtca ccgtggagaa tgtcaagctg aaggcgtcct   540
              cttcttccaa ggtgaccgcg agtggttctg ggacttggct acgggaacca tgaaggagcg   600
              ttcctggcca gctgttggga actgctcctc tgccctgaga tggctgggcc gctactactg   660
              cttccagggt aaccaattcc tgcgcttcga ccctgtcagg ggagaggtgc ctcccaggta   720
              cccgcgggat gtccgagact acttcatgcc ctgccctggc agaggccatg gacacaggaa   780
              tgggactggc catgggaaca gtacccacca tggccctgag tatatgcgct gtagcccaca   840
              tctagtcttg tctgcactga cgtctgacaa ccatggtgcc acctatgcct tcagtgggac   900
              ccactactgg cgtctggaca ccagccggga tggctggcat agctggccca ttgctcatca   960
                                                    Page 13

              gtggccccag ggtccttcag cagtggatgc tgccttttcc tgggaagaaa aactctatct   1020
<removed-date>
              ggtccagggc acccaggtat atgtcttcct gacaaaggga ggctataccc tagtaagcgg   1080
              ttatccgaag cggctggaga aggaagtcgg gacccctcat gggattatcc tggactctgt   1140
              ggatgcggcc tttatctgcc ctgggtcttc tcggctccat atcatggcag gacggcggct   1200
              gtggtggctg gacctgaagt caggagccca agccacgtgg acagagcttc cttggcccca   1260
<removed-apn>
              tgagaaggta gacggagcct tgtgtatgga aaagtccctt ggccctaact catgttccgc   1320
              caatggtccc ggcttgtacc tcatccatgg tcccaatttg tactgctaca gtgatgtgga   1380
              gaaactgaat gcagccaagg cccttccgca accccagaat gtgaccagtc tcctgggctg   1440
              cactcactga ggggccttct gacatgagtc tggcctggcc ccacctccta gttcctcata   1500
              ataaagacag attgcttctt cgcttctcac tgaggggcct tctgacatga gtctggcctg   1560
              gccccacctc cccagtttct cataataaag acagattgct tcttcacttg aatcaaggga   1620
              cctaaaaaaa aaaaa                                                    1635
              <210>   7
              <211>   231
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 7
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val
                      35                  40                  45
              Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Tyr Asp Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln
                              85                  90                  95
                                                  Page 14

<removed-date>
              Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              225                 230
              <210>   8
              <211>   231
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 8
              Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro Cys Pro Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro Pro Lys Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr Cys Val Val
                                                  Page 15

                      35                    40                45
<removed-date>
              Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn Trp Tyr Val
                  50                  55                  60
              Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg Glu Glu Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
<removed-apn>
              Tyr Asn Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu His Gln
                              85                  90                  95
              Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser Asn Lys Ala
                          100                 105                 110
              Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys Gly Gln Pro
                      115                 120                 125
              Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp Glu Leu Thr
                  130                 135                 140
              Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe Tyr Pro Ser
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu Asn Asn Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe Phe Leu Tyr
                          180                 185                 190
              Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly Asn Val Phe
                      195                 200                 205
              Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr Thr Gln Lys
                  210                 215                 220
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly
              225                 230
              <210> 9
              <211> 233
                                                  Page 16

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Homo sapiens
              <400> 9
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys
                                                  Page 17

                        195               200                 205
<removed-date>
              Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr His His Gly Pro Glu Tyr Met Arg
              225                 230
<removed-apn>
              <210>   10
              <211>   210
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 10
              Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro
                      35                  40                  45
              Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu
                  50                  55                  60
              Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro
                              85                  90                  95
              Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly
                          100                 105                 110
              Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser
                  130                 135                 140
                                                    Page 18

              Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe
<removed-date>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg
                              165                 170                 175
              Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His
                          180                 185                 190
<removed-apn>
              Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly His Gly Asn Ser Thr His His Gly Pro Glu Tyr
                      195                 200                 205
              Met Arg
                  210
              <210>   11
              <211>   206
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 11
              Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              Met Leu Phe Phe Lys Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp
                          20                  25                  30
              Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp
                      35                  40                  45
              Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp
                  50                  55                  60
              Lys Val Trp Val Tyr Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala
                              85                  90                  95
              Val Glu Cys His Arg Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe
                          100                 105                 110
                                                  Page 19

<removed-date>
              Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp
                  130                 135                 140
              Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp
<removed-apn>
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Pro Val Arg Gly Glu Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp
                              165                 170                 175
              Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr
                          180                 185                 190
              Gly His Gly Asn Ser Thr His His Gly Pro Glu Tyr Met Arg
                      195                 200                 205
              <210>   12
              <211>   220
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 12
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
                                                  Page 20

<removed-date>
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
<removed-apn>
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly
                  210                 215                 220
              <210>   13
              <211>   213
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo sapiens
              <400> 13
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                                                  Page 21

                  50                  55                    60
<removed-date>
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
<removed-apn>
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Gly Arg Gly His
                  210
              <210>    14
              <211>    212
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Homo sapiens
              <400> 14
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
                                                  Page 22

              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
<removed-date>
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                  50                  55                  60
<removed-apn>
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Gly Arg Gly
                  210
              <210> 15
                                                  Page 23

              <211> 207
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Homo sapiens
              <400> 15
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
<removed-apn>
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
                                                  Page 24

              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro
<removed-date>
                      195                 200                 205
              <210>   16
              <211>   437
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 16
              Thr Pro Leu Pro Pro Thr Ser Ala His Gly Asn Val Ala Glu Gly Glu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Lys Pro Asp Pro Asp Val Thr Glu Arg Cys Ser Asp Gly Trp Ser
                          20                  25                  30
              Phe Asp Ala Thr Thr Leu Asp Asp Asn Gly Thr Met Leu Phe Phe Lys
                      35                  40                  45
              Gly Glu Phe Val Trp Lys Ser His Lys Trp Asp Arg Glu Leu Ile Ser
                  50                  55                  60
              Glu Arg Trp Lys Asn Phe Pro Ser Pro Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Arg Gln
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Gly His Asn Ser Val Phe Leu Ile Lys Gly Asp Lys Val Trp Val Tyr
                              85                  90                  95
              Pro Pro Glu Lys Lys Glu Lys Gly Tyr Pro Lys Leu Leu Gln Asp Glu
                          100                 105                 110
              Phe Pro Gly Ile Pro Ser Pro Leu Asp Ala Ala Val Glu Cys His Arg
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Glu Cys Gln Ala Glu Gly Val Leu Phe Phe Gln Gly Asp Arg Glu
                  130                 135                 140
              Trp Phe Trp Asp Leu Ala Thr Gly Thr Met Lys Glu Arg Ser Trp Pro
              145                 150                 155                 160
                                                  Page 25

<removed-date>
              Ala Val Gly Asn Cys Ser Ser Ala Leu Arg Trp Leu Gly Arg Tyr Tyr
                              165                 170                 175
              Cys Phe Gln Gly Asn Gln Phe Leu Arg Phe Asp Pro Val Arg Gly Glu
                          180                 185                 190
              Val Pro Pro Arg Tyr Pro Arg Asp Val Arg Asp Tyr Phe Met Pro Cys
<removed-apn>
                      195                 200                 205
              Pro Gly Arg Gly His Gly His Arg Asn Gly Thr Gly Ser Gly Ser His
                  210                 215                 220
              His Gly Pro Glu Tyr Met Arg Cys Ser Pro His Leu Val Leu Ser Ala
              225                 230                 235                 240
              Leu Thr Ser Asp Asn His Gly Ala Thr Tyr Ala Phe Ser Gly Thr His
                              245                 250                 255
              Tyr Trp Arg Leu Asp Thr Ser Arg Asp Gly Trp His Ser Trp Pro Ile
                          260                 265                 270
              Ala His Gln Trp Pro Gln Gly Pro Ser Ala Val Asp Ala Ala Phe Ser
                      275                 280                 285
              Trp Glu Glu Lys Leu Tyr Leu Val Gln Gly Thr Gln Val Tyr Val Phe
                  290                 295                 300
              Leu Thr Lys Gly Gly Tyr Thr Leu Val Ser Gly Tyr Pro Lys Arg Leu
              305                 310                 315                 320
              Glu Lys Glu Val Gly Thr Pro His Gly Ile Ile Leu Asp Ser Val Asp
                              325                 330                 335
              Ala Ala Phe Ile Cys Pro Gly Ser Ser Arg Leu His Ile Met Ala Gly
                          340                 345                 350
              Arg Arg Leu Trp Trp Leu Asp Leu Lys Ser Gly Ala Gln Ala Thr Trp
                      355                 360                 365
                                                  Page 26

              Thr Glu Leu Pro Trp Pro His Glu Lys Val Asp Gly Ala Leu Cys Met
<removed-date>
                  370                 375                 380
              Glu Lys Ser Leu Gly Pro Asn Ser Cys Ser Ala Asn Gly Pro Gly Leu
              385                 390                 395                 400
              Tyr Leu Ile His Gly Pro Asn Leu Tyr Cys Tyr Ser Asp Val Glu Lys
                              405                 410                 415
<removed-apn>
              Leu Asn Ala Ala Lys Ala Leu Pro Gln Pro Gln Asn Val Thr Ser Leu
                          420                 425                 430
              Leu Gly Cys Thr His
                      435
              <210>   17
              <211>   235
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 17
              Ala Lys Thr Glu Pro Lys Ser Ser Asp Lys Thr His Thr Cys Pro Pro
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Pro Ala Pro Glu Leu Leu Gly Gly Pro Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pro
                          20                  25                  30
              Pro Lys Pro Lys Asp Thr Leu Met Ile Ser Arg Thr Pro Glu Val Thr
                      35                  40                  45
              Cys Val Val Val Asp Val Ser His Glu Asp Pro Glu Val Lys Phe Asn
                  50                  55                  60
              Trp Tyr Val Asp Gly Val Glu Val His Asn Ala Lys Thr Lys Pro Arg
              65                  70                  75                  80
              Glu Glu Gln Tyr Asp Ser Thr Tyr Arg Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val
                              85                  90                  95
                                                  Page 27

<removed-date>
              Leu His Gln Asp Trp Leu Asn Gly Lys Glu Tyr Lys Cys Lys Val Ser
                          100                 105                 110
              Asn Lys Ala Leu Pro Ala Pro Ile Glu Lys Thr Ile Ser Lys Ala Lys
                      115                 120                 125
              Gly Gln Pro Arg Glu Pro Gln Val Tyr Thr Leu Pro Pro Ser Arg Asp
<removed-apn>
                  130                 135                 140
              Glu Leu Thr Lys Asn Gln Val Ser Leu Thr Cys Leu Val Lys Gly Phe
              145                 150                 155                 160
              Tyr Pro Ser Asp Ile Ala Val Glu Trp Glu Ser Asn Gly Gln Pro Glu
                              165                 170                 175
              Asn Asn Tyr Lys Thr Thr Pro Pro Val Leu Asp Ser Asp Gly Ser Phe
                          180                 185                 190
              Phe Leu Tyr Ser Lys Leu Thr Val Asp Lys Ser Arg Trp Gln Gln Gly
                      195                 200                 205
              Asn Val Phe Ser Cys Ser Val Met His Glu Ala Leu His Asn His Tyr
                  210                 215                 220
              Thr Gln Lys Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pro Gly Ala
              225                 230                 235
              <210>   18
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 18
              Gly Ser Gly Ser
              1
              <210> 19
              <211> 27
                                                  Page 28

              <212> PRT
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 19
              Glu Pro Gly Gln Gly Leu Arg Gly Leu Gln Gly Pro Pro Gly Lys Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
<removed-apn>
              Gly Pro Pro Gly Asn Pro Gly Pro Ser Gly Ser
                          20                  25
              <210>   20
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 20
              Gly Lys Leu Gly
              1
              <210>   21
              <211>   11
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 21
              Gly Pro Pro Gly Lys Leu Gly Pro Pro Gly Asn
              1               5                   10
              <210>   22
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
                                                  Page 29

              <400> 22
<removed-date>
              Arg Gly Leu Gln Gly Pro Pro Gly Lys Leu
              1               5                   10
              <210>   23
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 23
              Gly Lys Leu Gly Pro Pro Gly Asn Pro Gly Pro Ser Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   24
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 24
              Gly Leu Arg Gly Leu Gln Gly Pro Pro Gly Lys Leu Gly Pro Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                  15
              Asn Pro Gly Pro
                          20
              <210>   25
              <211>   33
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 25
              Pro Asp Gly Asp Ser Ser Leu Ala Ala Ser Glu Arg Lys Ala Leu Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Glu Met Ala Arg Ile Lys Lys Trp Leu Thr Phe Ser Leu Gly Lys
                          20                  25                  30
                                                  Page 30

<removed-date>
              Gln
              <210>   26
              <211>   34
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 26
              Ala Pro Asp Gly Asp Ser Ser Leu Ala Ala Ser Glu Arg Lys Ala Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Thr Glu Met Ala Arg Ile Lys Lys Trp Leu Thr Phe Ser Leu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              Lys Gln
              <210>   27
              <211>   31
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    polypeptide
              <400> 27
              Pro Asp Gly Asp Ser Ser Leu Ala Ala Ser Glu Arg Lys Ala Leu Gln
              1               5                   10                  15
              Thr Glu Met Ala Arg Ile Lys Lys Trp Leu Thr Phe Ser Leu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
              <210>   28
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                                                  Page 31

                      polypeptide
<removed-date>
              <400> 28
              Ala Pro Asp Gly Asp Ser Ser Leu Ala Ala Ser Glu Arg Lys Ala Leu
              1               5                   10                  15
              Gln Thr Glu Met Ala Arg Ile Lys Lys Trp Leu Thr Phe Ser Leu Gly
                          20                  25                  30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   29
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 29
              Asn Asp
              1
              <210>   30
              <211>   3
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (2)..(2)
              <223> Any amino acid
              <400> 30
              Glu Xaa Asn
              1
              <210>   31
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
                                                  Page 32

<removed-date>
              <400> 31
              Asn Glu Gly Glu Pro Asn Asn Ala Gly Ser
              1               5                   10
              <210>   32
              <211>   9
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 32
              Gly Ser Asp Glu Asp Cys Val Leu Leu
              1               5
              <210>   33
              <211>   15
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 33
              Leu Leu Leu Lys Asn Gly Gln Trp Asn Asp Val Pro Cys Ser Thr
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   34
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    6xHis tag
              <400> 34
              His His His His His His
              1               5
              <210>   35
              <211>   3
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 33

              <220>
<removed-date>
              <223> Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide
              <400> 35
              Ala Lys Thr
              1
<removed-apn>
                                                  Page 34

