                                           ABSTRACT
A plurality of port cleaning devices are disposed in respective compartments along a strip.
Each port cleaning device comprises a cap having a tubular member configured to engage a
line port, and containing a fluid agent and a porous sponge-like applicator material. The line
port is able to be cleaned with the individual port cleaning device. A method of manufacturing
the plurality of port cleaning devices comprises providing a sectioned length of material, with
each individual section having a compartment configured to have a port cleaning device
housed therein.

  PORT CLEANING DEVICES AND METHOD OF CLEANING AN INTRAVASCULAR LINE
                                                PORT
TECHNICAL FIELD
 [0001]      The invention pertains to intravascular port cleaning devices and methods of
cleaning an intravascular line port. There are also disclosed herein intravascular port access
devices, methods of administering an agent into an intravascular line port, methods of
obtaining a blood sample from an individual, and sets of intravascular line port caps.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 [0002]       Intravenous lines, such as peripheral IV lines and central IV lines, are common
intravenous access methods for administering medicants, nutrient solutions, blood products,
or other substances into a vein.          Arterial lines are used, for example, in monitoring
physiological parameters by arterial blood sampling during coronary, intensive or critical
care. However, microorganism intravascular device colonization or infection can occur as a
result from a patients' own endogenous flora or from microorganisms introduced from
contaminated equipment or other environmental contamination sources.                  As a result,
localized or systemic infection or septicemia can occur and can be life threatening.
 [0003]       Introduction of microorganisms into an intravenous line can be initiated or
facilitated during handling of a catheter, hub, associated tubing, equipment, or injection ports,
especially during manipulation of lines in preparation           and during initiation of fluid
administration into or withdrawal from the line. Microorganisms present on a surface of an
injection port can be introduced through the port during administration.           Microorganisms
present on contaminated equipment utilized for administration can be introduced through the
port causing colonization or infection.       Bacterial growth and/or aggregation in a port or
catheter can serve as the nidus for clotting, embolization and/or occlusion of the port or
catheter. Further manipulation or administration through the port can facilitate spreading of
microorganisms within the port, catheter, and lines, and ultimately into the patient's
vein/artery and/or surrounding tissue. Accordingly, it would be advantageous to develop
methods and devices for cleaning of external surfaces of intravascular access ports and/or
internal port areas to reduce risks of colonization and infection.
 [0004]      Another complication that can occur in association with an intravascular line,
catheter or access port is clot formation due to blood return.        Initial clot formation could
extend and/or embolize into the superior vena cava and/or the right atrium and/or right
ventricle of the heart, and subsequently into the pulmonary system circulating to the lungs.
 [0005]       It is a preferred aim of the present invention to provided improved port cleaning
devices and methods of cleaning an intravascular line port.
                                                 1

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0006]      In one broad form, the invention provides a plurality of port cleaning devices
disposed along a strip, each port cleaning device comprising a cap having a tubular member
configured to engage a port, and containing a fluid agent and a porous sponge-like applicator
material.
  [0007]      Preferably, at least one of the fluid agent and the applicator material of a first port
cleaning device of the plurality of port cleaning devices is materially different than the fluid
agent and the applicator material contained in a compartment of a second port cleaning
device of the plurality of port cleaning devices.
  [0008]      In an embodiment, the fluid agent comprises one or both of alcohol and
ethylenediamine tetra acetic acid (EDTA).
  [0009]      In an embodiment, the tubular member extends lengthwise from an opening to a
base. The tubular member is typically configured to engage an intravascular port. The cap
may further comprise a plurality of ridges projecting from the exterior of the tubular member.
  [0010]      The applicator material may be disposed within the tubular member. The
applicator material may define a disk having a sidewall extending between opposing surfaces
of the disk.
  [0011]      Preferably, each port cleaning device is removably located within a respective
compartment arranged serially along the strip.
  [0012]      In another form, the invention provides a method of manufacturing a plurality of
port cleaning devices disposed along a strip, the method comprising: providing a sectioned
strip, each individual section of the strip having a compartment configured to have a port
cleaning device housed therein; and inserting individual port cleaning devices in the
individual sections of the strip, wherein each port cleaning device includes a line port cap
having a tubular member configured to engage a port, and containing a fluid agent and an
porous sponge-like applicator material.
  [0013]      The method may further comprise sealing each port cleaning device within its
respective compartment.
  [0014]      In yet another form, the invention provides a method of cleaning an intravascular
line port, the method comprising: providing a plurality of port cleaning devices disposed along
a strip, each port cleaning device comprising a cap having a tubular member configured to
engage a port, and containing a fluid agent and a porous sponge-like applicator material;
removing an individual port cleaning device of the plurality of port cleaning devices from the
strip; and cleaning the line port with the individual port cleaning device.
                                                 2

 [0015]     The plurality of port cleaning devices can be housed in respective compartments
along the strip, and removing the individual port cleaning device may comprise removing the
device from the strip.
 [0016]     The step of cleaning the line port with the individual port cleaning device may
comprise exposing the fluid agent to the port.
 [0017]     The step of cleaning the line port with the individual port cleaning device may
comprise at least partially affixing the cap of the individual port cleaning device to the line
port. The method may further comprise exposing the applicator material to the line port.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0018]     Preferred embodiments of the invention are described below with reference to the
following accompanying drawings.
 [0019]     Fig. 1 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a device in accordance with one
embodiment.
 [0020]     Fig. 2 is a diagrammatic side view of the device shown in Fig. 1.
 [0021]     Fig. 3 is a diagrammatic exploded view of the device shown in Fig. 1.
 [0022]     Fig. 4 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device shown in Fig. 1.
 [0023]     Fig. 5 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device shown in Fig. 1 after
repositioning relative to the positioning depicted in Fig. 4.
 [0024]     Fig. 6 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a device in accordance with another
embodiment.
 [0025]     Fig. 7 is a diagrammatic side view of the device shown in Fig. 6.
 [0026]     Fig. 8 is a diagrammatic exploded view of the device of Fig. 6.
 [0027]     Fig. 9 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device shown in Fig. 6.
 [0028]     Fig. 10 is a diagrammatic view of an exemplary packaging concept for the device
shown in Fig. 6.
 [0029]     Fig. 11 shows a multi-pack packaging concept for the device shown in Fig. 6.
 [0030]     Fig. 12 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a device in accordance with another
embodiment.
 [0031]     Fig. 13 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional view of the device shown in Fig. 12.
 [0032]     Fig. 14 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a device in accordance with another
embodiment.
 [0033]     Fig. 15 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a device in accordance with another
embodiment.
 [0034]     Fig. 16 is a diagrammatic cross-sectional side view of the device shown in Fig.
15.
                                               3

 [0035]      Fig. 17 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a packaging concept in accordance
with one embodiment.
 [0036]      Fig. 18 is a diagrammatic isometric view of the packaging concept shown in Fig.
17.
 [0037]      Fig. 19 is another diagrammatic isometric view of the packaging concept shown
in Fig. 17.
 [0038]      Fig. 20 is a diagrammatic isometric view of a set of components in accordance
with one embodiment.
 [0039]      Fig. 21 is an exploded view of the set of components depicted in Fig. 20.
 [0040]      Fig. 22 is a diagrammatic exploded view of a packaging concept in accordance
with one embodiment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 [0041]       In general, embodiments of the invention include devices and methodology for
cleaning and/or accessing intravascular line ports. In particular applications, such devices
can be used for cleaning external surfaces of a intravascular line port followed by cleaning of
the port itself and in particular instances cleaning of intravascular lines.
 [0042]      There are also disclosed herein other applications in which embodiments can be
utilized for administering an agent intravascularly. During these applications, the devices in
accordance with embodiments of the invention can typically be utilized to cleanse external
surfaces of the port prior to utilizing the device for administering of an agent intravascularly.
In another application, devices of embodiments of the invention can be utilized to obtain a
blood sample from an individual.          A device in accordance with an embodiment of the
invention is typically utilized to cleanse external surfaces of a port prior to utilizing the device
to withdraw a sample of blood from the port. There are also disclosed herein methodology
for such port cleansing agent administration and blood sampling techniques.
 [0043]       In one embodiment, the device comprises two components.             An example two
component device is described with reference to Figs. 1-5.
 [0044]      Referring initially to Fig. 1, a port access device 10 comprises a first component
12 at a first end 14 of the device, and a second component 16 at a second end 18 of the
device. Second component 16 can have a tab 20 or other extension feature for assisting
removal of the second component from the first component.              First component 12 has a
chamber housing 22 which can be a collapsible housing.             First component 12 can also
comprise an extension portion 24.         Referring to Fig. 2, as depicted device 10 can have
second portion 16 insertable within connector portion 24. It is to be understood however that
the invention contemplates other configurations wherein second portion 16 fits over or caps
extension portion 24. It is also to be understood that the shape and dimension of collapsible
                                                 4

housing 22 is but an example with alternative              shapes, sizes and configurations
contemplated.
 [0045]      Referring to Fig. 3 such shows an exploded view of the device depicted in Figs. 1
and 2. As illustrated chamber housing 22 of device 10 can house a chamber 23. Connector
24 can comprise a separator 25 having an opening 29 passing therethrough. Connector 24
can further comprise a receiving port 30 for receiving a dispenser 26. Dispenser 26 in turn
can comprise a valve portion 28. Second component 16 can comprise a container 21.
 [0046]      Referring next to Fig. 4, such shows dispenser 26 with valve 28 seated within
receiving port 30.    As depicted such valve mechanism is in the "closed" position where
contents of chamber 23 are blocked from passing into or through connector 24. Referring
next to Fig. 5, application of force upon collapsible housing 22 such as a downward pressure
upon a top surface of the housing can be utilized to displace valve device 28 from receiving
port 30 as illustrated. Such displacement can allow passage of the contents of chamber 23
into or through connector portion 24.
 [0047]      As depicted in Fig. 4, second component 16 can contain an applicator material
32.    Such applicator material can be for example, a sponge or sponge-type material.
Exemplary sponge-type materials can include but are not limited to polyethylene felt sponge,
polyethylene foam sponge, plastic foam sponge and silicon foam sponge.
 [0048]      Where device 10 is to be utilized for port cleansing applications, container 21 of
second component 16 will typically contain a cleansing agent. The cleansing agent can be a
disinfecting agent for cleansing external port surfaces. The agent is not limited to a particular
cleaning or disinfecting agent and can comprise for example alcohol, preferably contained in
an alcohol solution comprising from about 5% to about 99% alcohol.                  In particular
applications the alcohol solution will comprise 25% to 90% alcohol.             The sponge-type
applicator material can be utilized to assist in containing the cleansing agent and can further
assist in applying the agent to external surfaces of the intravascular port.              Second
component 16 is removably attached to the device 10. For cleansing of the port, removable
component 16 is removed from first component 12 and is utilized to contact external port
surfaces for cleansing of external portions of an intravascular line port.
 [0049]      After cleansing of external portions of the port, the first component of the device,
which in cleansing/disinfecting applications can be utilized for internal cleansing of the
intravascular port, can be reversibly attached to the port to be cleansed. The chamber
volume can be for example up to 3.5 ml; a preferred volume range can be from about 1 to
about 3 ml. although alternative chamber sizes for smaller or larger volumes are
contemplated.     The chamber can have appropriate calibration marks relative to the total
volume of the chamber.       For example, a 3.5 ml. fluid volume chamber can have volume
markings every 1 ml, every 0.5 ml, every 0.1 ml, etc.            In particular embodiments, the
                                               5

connector portion can have a LEUR-LOK* (Becton, Dickinson and Company Corp., Franklin
Lakes NJ) fitting (not shown) for connection to a LEUR-LOK* type port. A cleansing agent
can be provided within chamber 23 and can be an antibiotic or an alternative appropriate
disinfectant. An exemplary agent can be an alcohol or alcohol solution such as described
above relative to the second component container 21. In cleansing applications chamber 22
can alternatively or additionally contain chemical agents including ethylene diamine
tretaacetic acid (EDTA) and/or sodium citrate.
  [0050]     Once connected to the line port external pressure can be applied to collapsible
housing 22 by for example squeezing, pinching, or pushing inward on the housing to displace
dispenser 26 thereby opening or displacing valve 28 from receiving port 30.             Continued
squeezing or external force can be utilized to dispel or eject contents of chamber 23 through
connector 24 and into the connected port. Depending upon the volume of chamber 23 the
injected cleansing solution may extend into the intravascular line itself. After dispelling the
contents of chamber 23 device component 12 can be removed from the port to allow
administration of fluids to be delivered intravascularly (for example). If such delivery is not to
be performed immediately upon cleansing, component 12 of the cleansing device can be
retained on the port until such time as intravascular delivery is desired.
  [0051]     In another aspect, the above-described device and methodology can be utilized
for administering an anti-clot agent to minimize or prevent intravascular associated clot
formation or to dissolve an existing clot.     In this aspect, rather than or in addition to the
antimicrobial agent, chamber 23 can contain an appropriate anticoagulant agent or clot
dissolving agent. Exemplary anti-clot agents which can be utilized include but are not limited
to anticoagulants such as EDTA, sodium citrate, heparin and heparin derivatives, and anti
thrombolytic agents such as tissue plasminogen activator. Where lipid accumulation is an
issue an appropriate dispersion or lipolytic agent can be administered, either independently
or in combination with antimicrobial agent and/or anti-clot agent.         Injection of any such
agents can be achieved in a manner analogous to that described above relative to the
cleansing agent. These applications may also be accomplished utilizing the embodiments
illustrated and described below.
  [0052]     An alternative embodiment of a device is illustrated and described with reference
to Figs. 6-11. Referring to Fig. 6, such illustrates an alternative example port access device
40 having a syringe-like first component 42 and a second component 44. Referring to Fig. 7
syringe-like first component 42 includes a plunger 46. An exploded view of the port access
device is depicted in Fig. 8.    First component 42 includes a syringe barrel-like housing 48
having a first end 50 and a second end 52 with an internal chamber 54. Chamber 54 can
preferably have a fluid volume of from 1 to about 3.5 ml. Housing 48 can have appropriate
calibration marks as discussed above with respect to the earlier embodiment.
                                               6

 [0053]      Plunger 46 can include a stem portion 56 having a seal 57. Plunger 46 can be
insertable into second end 52 of housing 48. A second seal 59 can be associated with the
larger diameter body of the plunger. Seal 59 is preferably present to form a seal between the
plunger and an internal surface of the device chamber.           Seal 59 can preferably be an
elastameric seal which is over molded onto the piston (which can preferably be a molded
hard plastic material). However, the invention contemplates alternative seal material and use
of non-overmolded techniques.
 [0054]      Seal 57 can be a single seal or a set of seals and can be for example a set of two
o-rings, a single broad overmolded elastameric o-ring or sleeve or a hard plastic seal molded
integrally with the piston stem.      The presence of seal 57 can advantageously inhibit or
prevent unwanted or unintentional backflow of fluid into the device chamber thereby
decreasing the risk of contamination of the device and/or its contents. Alternatively relative
to the depicted configuration a single seal can be over molded to have a base portion which
forms the seal between an internal wall of the device chamber and the large diameter portion
of the piston and a sleeve portion which covers the walls of the smaller diameter portion of
the piston (not shown).
 [0055]      The second component 44 is a removable cap portion having a housing 60 and
an internal container 62. Container 62 can contain an applicator material 64. The applicator
material can be, for example, any of those materials discussed above with respect to the
earlier embodiment. The second component 44 can additionally contain a cleansing agent
such as those cleansing agents discussed above. Second component 44 preferably can be
configured to fit over or onto an intravascular port such that the cleansing agent can be
applied to external surfaces of the port. Such cleaning preferably can be conducted prior to
administering the contents of chamber 54 (for example, an anti-clot, antimicrobial or other
cleansing agent) into the port.       However, the invention contemplates post-administration
cleansing of the port utilizing the removable cap portion.
 [0056]      Referring next to Fig. 9, such shows a cross-sectional view of the embodied
device 40 in an intact configuration.    For utilization second component 44 can be removed
and utilized to cleanse external surface of the port. Subsequently, first end 50 of the second
component can be attached to the port and contents of the chamber 54 can be administered
into the port by application of force to plunger 46. Alternatively, chamber 54 can be provided
empty or can be provided to contain, for example, an anticoagulant agent and device 40 can
be provided with plunger 46 in a forward position.          Thus device 40 can be utilized for
applications such as obtaining and/or testing of a blood sample from an individual by
attaching first end 50 of the device to the port and repositioning of plunger 46 to draw fluid
through the port into chamber 54.
                                              7

 [0057]       Referring to Fig. 10 packaging 70 for delivery, storage and/or disposal of the
component for access device 40 is illustrated. Such packaging includes a lid 72, and a tray
portion 74 defining a compartment or cavity 76 for receiving the device 40. The compartment
or cavity 76 is provided with molded retainers 78 for positioning/retaining of the device and
assisting in maintaining the integrity of the device and proper positioning of the plunger
relative to the device chamber. Such packaging can be sealed and can be utilized to provide
a sterile environment for device 40. As shown in Fig. 11 a series 71 of individual packaging
units 70 can be provided in a strip of individually sealed units to allow individual removal of
units while maintaining sterility of additional units in the series.
 [0058]       Another alternative embodiment is described with reference to Figs. 12-13.       In
this embodiment first component 42a is the same as the immediately preceding embodiment.
However, referring to Fig. 12 second component 44a comprises a "dual cap" system. Cap
housing 60a includes container portion 62 and a second cap extension 65 which houses a
second container 66.        Container 62 can contain an applicator material 64 such as the
sponge-like materials described above. Similarly container 66 can also contain a sponge or
other applicator material 67. Container 62 can further contain a cleansing agent such as
those described above.
 [0059]       Container 66 can preferably contain one or more microbiocidal agents that differ
in composition from the cleaning solution contained in the cleansing cap 62. An example
agent composition within cap portion 65 can include from about 3% to about 11%             H2 0 2.
Additional components of the agent can include for example ethanol (from about 30% to
about 40%) sodium citrate (from about 1% to about 4%), EDTA, and/or peracetic acid (less
than or equal to about 11%).         Preferably, the pH will be between 5 and 10 and can be
adjusted with NaOH or other appropriate base/acid to about ph 7.4 as needed based upon
the physiological pH and biocidal activity. The presence of EDTA can provide sporocidal
activity against for example bacillus spores by complexing Mn and can additionally help
stabilize H2 0 2. In combination with H2 0 2 in the solution a synergistic and/or additive effect
can be achieved.        The invention does contemplate use of alternative chelators and pH
stabilizers relative to those indicated.
 [0060]       It is to be noted that in some instances a similar solution having lower peroxide
content may be included within the first container 62 and in particular instances may be
present within the chamber of the first component.
 [0061]       Referring to Fig. 13 such shows an intact device prior to use. In port cleansing
applications second component 44a is removed from the device and portion 60a is utilized to
cover a port thereby contacting the port with the contents of container 62. Applicator material
64 can assist in applying the cleaning agent to external port surfaces. When the contents of
chamber 54 are to be administered, component 44a is removed from the port and first
                                                8

component is attached to the port. Plunger 46 is depressed thereby injecting the contents of
chamber 54 into the port.       The syringe component is then removed from the port.           A
removable seal 68 can then be removed from second cap portion 65. Cap portion 65 can be
placed over the port such that the contents of container 66 contact the port.            Second
component 44 can then be removed from the port or can be retained on the port until further
port access or manipulation is desired.
  [0062]     Referring to Fig. 14 such shows an alternative embodiment wherein port access
device 40b comprises a first component 42b, a second component 44b and a third
component 45b where second component 44b and third component 45b are independently
removable caps. As illustrated the caps are disposed initially at opposing ends of the device
and are of differing size. However, alternative relative size and positioning of the caps on the
device is contemplated. For example, first component 44b and second 45b can be disposed
on top-side or bottom-side of wing extensions 51, 53 of chamber housing 48b.
  [0063]     For the example configuration illustrated, the larger cap (first component 44b) can
be removed from the device and can be utilized for external port cleaning in a manner
analogous to that described above. The second smaller cap (third component 45b) can be
removed from the device after administration of the chamber contents and can be
subsequently utilized as a port cap to protect the port until subsequent port access is desired
as described above. Third component 45b optionally can contain an applicator material 82
and/or cleansing agent or microbiocidal agent as described above.
  [0064]     Alternative two-cap configurations include a device having a larger cap external
to a smaller internal cap, the first cap being removable from the second cap where one of the
first and second caps is configured for utilization as a port cap.
  [0065]     In the device shown in Fig. 14, cap housing 60b of second component 44b and
cap housing 80 of third component 45b can be of differing colors. As such, the caps can be
color coded (or otherwise coded) to notify the user or other personnel of the status of the port
or intravascular line.   For example, a first color such as green can be utilized on all or a
portion of cap housing 80 which will be retained on the port after use of the device to signify
a properly sterilized port.    Cap housing 60b can be a second color (e.g., yellow or red)
signifying the cleansing or other procedure being performed has not yet been completed.
Accordingly, the caps can be utilized as an added safety measure to help ensure proper use
and assist in maintaining sterility and appropriate record keeping. For example, the caps can
allow visual monitoring and can be tracked by hospital pharmacy and/or central auditing
software.
  [0066]     In addition to visual auditing of compliance to proper cleaning and maintenance
of sterility, a barcode, radio frequency identification (RFID) and/or other pharmacy
                                               9

dispensary or inventory control system associated with the device can be utilized to provide
an independent audit/compliance system.
  [0067]      Referring next to Fig. 15 such depicts an additional alternate embodiment which
can utilize a conventional type syringe and plunger design and can utilize caps. Accordingly,
first component 42c comprises a syringe housing 48c and can have a LEUR-LOKO fitting at
first end 50. Plunger 46c can have a conventional type piston seal 57c configured to insert
into second end 52 of housing 48c and form a seal with the walls of chamber 54c. Second
component 44c can comprise a housing 60c which can for example have an internal
receiving port which fits either internally relative to the LEUR-LOKO fitting or which fits over
and covers the LEUR-LOK* fitting at first end 50 of first component housing 48c. Third
component 45c can also have housing 80c configured such that it comprises an internal
receiving port which fits either internally relative to a LEUR-LOK® fitting or which fits over and
covers the LEUR-LOK® fitting (or which can have an alternative type fitting) based upon the
type of port being cleansed.
  [0068]      A cross-sectional view of the device shown in Fig. 15 is illustrated in Fig. 16.
Such shows the exemplary type of cap housings for covering LEUR-LOK*-type fittings. For
example third component 45c has housing 80c comprising a portion of such housing which
fits internally within a LEUR-LOKOtype fitting thereby capping such fitting. In contrast second
component 44c has housing 60c which is threaded to thread onto LEUR-LOK® type fitting. It
is to be understood that the depiction is for illustrative purposes only and that either or both
caps can have the threaded configuration or the snap in configuration. Cap housing 60c and
80c can further be color coded as described above.
  [0069]      The invention also contemplates dual cap system disposed at the distal (non
administration) end of the port cleaner device (not shown).      In this dual cap system a first
"green" cap can be reversibly joined to both the device and also back to front in a stack
relationship relative to a second "yellow" cap. Each of the two caps can be, for example, a
LEUR-LOK® type fitting cap, friction fit cap, etc. The green cap can contain the microbiocide
composition described above.         The yellow cap can contain for example the cleaning
compositions discussed earlier or the microbiocide composition as contained in the green
cap since in this configuration the yellow cap is not in contact with the administration end of
the device.
  [0070]      Possible materials for caps include, but are not limited to, polyethylene,
polypropylene, and/or copolymer materials. Further, the caps can preferably comprise a
material or agent that is UV protective to preserve the integrity of hydrogen peroxide during
storage, shipping, etc.      Packaging may also contain UV protective materials to inhibit
peroxide breakdown.
                                                10

  [0071]     As mentioned above, devices of the invention can be utilized for withdrawing
blood from an individual through an intravascular catheter or intravascular port. In particular
applications, the device can be utilized directly for blood testing purposes.            The device
chamber can preferably have a chamber size in the range of 1 to 3 ml, with appropriate
calibration marks as discussed above. Where whole blood is desired, depending upon the
particular purpose for drawing, blood can be drawn into either a device having an empty
chamber or into a device containing an anticoagulant such as EDTA, sodium citrate or
alternative coagulant (such as discussed above).               The device containing blood and
anticoagulant can then be utilized directly in blood testing equipment or blood can be
transferred to an alternative device for testing.
  [0072]     In applications where serum is desired, whole blood can be drawn into the device
chamber and, after coagulation, the device containing the blood sample can be spun to
separate the serum from the red blood cells.           If anticoagulant is present in the device
chamber, further separation can occur to isolate plasma. Alternatively, a filter such as a
MILLIPORE* (Millipore Corp., Bedford MA) filter can be fitted onto the device after a sample
is drawn into the device chamber. Such technique can filter out red blood cells, white blood
cells and platelets allowing serum to flow from the chamber while retaining the blood cells
within the filter.    Anticoagulants can optionally be provided within the chamber to allow
transfer of blood cells or plasma if such is desired based upon the testing or other procedure
to be performed (i.e., complete blood count, CBC, platelet count, reticulocyte count, T and B
lymphocyte assays and chemistries).
  [0073]     An appropriate filter can also be utilized to filter out particulates during drawing of
a blood sample from an individual into the chamber.
  [0074]     It is to be understood that any of the devices above can be utilized for cleansing
purposes, for administration purposes or for blood drawing/testing purposes. Methodology
will be analogous with variation based upon the particular device utilized as described above.
  [0075]     Example device packaging is illustrated in Figs. 17-19.            Packaging 100 can
include a lid portion 102 and a packaging tray 104 as shown in Fig. 17. Referring to Fig. 18
and 19 packaging tray 104 can be a molded tray which has integrally molded retaining
features which conform to the shape of a device 40c.               Preferably the molded features
conform to the shape of the device in the non-deployed position for shipment, storage, etc.
Accordingly tray 104 can have one or more integrally molded retainer features 106, 107, 108
and 109. Tray 104 can also comprise an integrally molded receiving stand 110 which can be
configured to receive device 40c in an upright position as depicted in Fig. 18. Such receiving
stand can allow device 40c to be inserted and retained during administrative procedures or
after use. Tray 104 may also be used for device disposal purposes.
                                               11

  [0076]     Device caps can be utilized independent of the devices for cleansing and
protection of alternative access catheters and ports such as intravascular, peritoneal dialysis,
urinary ports and catheters, etc. Accordingly, the caps can be packaged independently in
pairs (one each of two differing sizes, colors, etc., in groups or in bulk, of one or more
colors). Figs. 20-21 show an example two cap packaging system 115 having a first cap 117
which can be for example a yellow cap and which can preferably be a LEUR-LOKO type cap
and a second cap 118 which can be, for example, a green cap and which can also be a
LEUR-LOK*. Packaging system 115 can comprise a packaging tray 120 and as illustrated in
Fig. 21 can include integrally molded appropriate receiving ports/receiving rings 122, 124.
Where additional or fewer caps are to be packaged together tray 120 can have an
appropriate number of receiving ports for receiving and reversibly retaining the caps. Where
the caps differ in size (diametric), the ports can also be of differing size as appropriate. It is
to be understood that the caps may be provided in groups such as one green and four yellow
caps per package or any other appropriate number depending upon the particular procedure
for which they will be utilized with the number and size of package ports corresponding to the
number and size of various caps.
  [0077]     Referring next to Fig. 22 an alternative packaging system 130 is illustrated.
Packaging system 130 comprises a lid 132 and a tray 130 having integral receiving ports 136
and 138 for receiving caps 117 and 118. As discussed above alternative numbers and sizes
of receiving ports can be provided based upon the number and sizes of caps to be utilized.
  [0078]     Where caps are provided in bulk, such may be individually packaged and may be
provided individually in sheets or on strips. Caps can alternatively be provided with catheter
or line/import devices. Such can be included in common packaging either loose or attached
to a port catheter or line to be used for port cleaning and/or protection after package opening
and/or while the device is in use. In some instances the cap(s) can be packaged in one or
more sub-packages included within a larger package enclosing the catheter device.
  [0079]    The term "comprise" and variants of that term such as "comprises" or "comprising"
are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or integers but not to exclude any
other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation
of the term is required.
 [0080]     Reference to prior art disclosures in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia or elsewhere.
                                               12

                                            CLAIMS
1.      A plurality of port cleaning devices disposed along a strip, each port cleaning
device comprising a cap having a tubular member configured to engage a port, and
containing:
        a fluid agent; and
        a porous sponge-like applicator material.
2.      The port cleaning devices of claim 1, wherein at least one of the fluid agent and
the applicator material of a first port cleaning device of the plurality of port cleaning
devices is materially different than the fluid agent and the applicator material contained
in the compartment of a second port cleaning device of the plurality of port cleaning
devices.
3.      The port cleaning devices of claim 1, wherein the fluid agent comprises one or
both of alcohol and ethylenediamine tetra acetic acid (EDTA).
4.      The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, wherein the tubular member
extends lengthwise from an opening to a base.
5.      The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, wherein the cap further
comprises a plurality of ridges projecting from the exterior of the tubular member.
6.      The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, wherein the applicator material
is disposed within the tubular member.
7.      The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, wherein the applicator material
defines a disk having a sidewall extending between opposing surfaces of the disk.
8.      The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, wherein the tubular member is
configured to engage an intravascular port.
9.      The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, wherein each port cleaning
device is removably located within a respective compartment arranged serially along the
strip.
                                               13

10.     A method of manufacturing a plurality of port cleaning devices disposed along a
strip, the method comprising:
        providing a sectioned strip, each individual section of the strip having a
compartment configured to have a port cleaning device housed therein; and
        inserting individual port cleaning devices in the individual sections of the strip,
wherein each port cleaning device includes a line port cap having a tubular member
configured to engage a port, and containing a fluid agent and an porous sponge-like
applicator material.
11.      The method of claim 10 further comprising sealing each port cleaning device
within its respective compartment.
12.     A method of cleaning an intravascular line port, the method comprising:
        providing a plurality of port cleaning devices disposed along a strip, each port
cleaning device comprising a cap having a tubular member configured to engage a port,
and containing a fluid agent and a porous sponge-like applicator material;
        removing an individual port cleaning device of the plurality of port cleaning
devices from the strip; and
        cleaning the line port with the individual port cleaning device.
13.     The method of claim 12 wherein the plurality of port cleaning devices are housed
in respective compartments along the strip, and removing the individual port cleaning
device comprises removing the device from its respective compartment.
14.     The method of claim 12 or 13 wherein cleaning the line port with the individual
port cleaning device comprises exposing the fluid agent to the line port.
15.     The method of any one of claims 12 to 14 wherein cleaning the line port with the
individual port cleaning device comprises at least partially affixing the cap of the
individual port cleaning device to the line port.
16.     The method of claim 15 further comprising exposing the applicator material to the
line port.
                                               14

17.     The port cleaning devices of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the strip has a
plurality of sections.
18.     The port cleaning devices of claim 17, wherein each section comprises a
compartment configured to receive at least one of the port cleaning devices.
19.     The port cleaning devices of any preceding claim, whereby each cap includes a
base, an open end and at least one side wall extending from the base towards the open
end.
20. The port cleaning devices of claim 19, wherein the at least one side wall tapers
inwardly from the open end toward the base.
                                            15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
