                                         Abstract
 5        The invention relates to a stimulation device (1) for erogenous zones, in
   particular for the clitoris (12), which device (1) has at least one pressure field
   generator (2) with at least a first chamber (3) and at least a second chamber (4)
   with at least one opening (42) for placing onto a body part (11), and at least one
   connection element (5) which connects the first chamber (3) to the second chamber
10 (4), and with a drive unit (6) which changes the volume of the first chamber (3) in
   such a way that, by way of the connection element (5), a pressure field is generated
   in the second chamber (4) and serves for stimulation; and a control device (7)
   which controls the drive unit (6).
15
   3518322v1

Fig. 3             3/7
        3
                       5
                        41
       62
       31        2
         61                  74
            6                  71
                                   72
                                      77
              76
                                       -- 75
                           73     /W

                                               1
                                          Description
                                      Stimulation Device
 5
          The present invention relates to a stimulation device for erogenous zones, in
   particular for the clitoris, a system with a stimulation device, as well as to methods
   for stimulating body parts.
10        The erogenous zones of the human body can be stimulated with a variety of
   tools. For example, vibrators are used to apply a stimulus to a particular area of the
   skin by direct contact. However, this form of stimulation can lead to irritations or
   inflammations of the skin. Also, direct contact of the genital area with such tools
   for individual reasons of hygiene or due to personal reservations, for example, may
15 not be desired.
          In particular, the direct stimulation of the clitoris with a clitoral massage
   vibrator, for example, is fraught with problems, as the clitoris is usually a woman's
   most sensitive erogenous zone. The entire clitoris is equipped with numerous nerve
20 endings, thus making it particularly touch-sensitive and responsive to sexual
   stimuli. Here, the clitoris glans, in which the nerve cords of the two thighs meet,
   should be particularly emphasized. Frequent use of a clitoral massage vibrator for
   direct stimulation, for example, leads to habituation effects or conditioning of the
   stimulated erogenous zone and the initial use of such a device may require certain
25 practice or familiarization.
          Furthermore, medical studies conducted in 2006 determined the female
   clitoris as definitive starting point of the female climax and neurologically proved
   the different qualities of sensation of clitoral (and vaginal) orgasm for the first
30 time. Thus, according to the most recent medical research, the stimulation of the
   3518322v1

                                               2
   clitoris, rather than the vagina, is considered the starting point of a woman's sexual
   arousal and thereby the key to female "sexual pleasure".
          The sensitivity of the human erogenous zones, such as the clitoris, the inner
 5 and outer labia or the nipples, continues to differ greatly individually. The person
   may be so sensitive that direct stimulation is only possible after prolonged
   foreplay, and even then only very subtly or ruled out completely. Furthermore, the
   sensitivity of the corresponding zone can change dramatically from one situation to
   another or even during a sexual act.
10
          For the aforementioned reasons, various indirect forms of stimulation are
   common practice as alternatives to direct stimulation.
          For indirect stimulation of erogenous zones, and especially the clitoris,
15 conventional vacuum devices are used to arouse the erogenous zones of the person
   concerned without directly contacting the main area to be stimulated. Thus, for
   example, vacuum pumps for the primary or secondary female sexual organs are
   known, which usually have a suction cup for placing on the appropriate area and a
   hand pump. The negative-pressure exerted by this type of device on the clitoris, for
20 example, generates a negative pressure in the clitoris itself, which is usually lower
   than the systolic blood pressure. This difference in pressure leads to an
   enlargement of the clitoris and/or stimulates the blood flow in the affected area.
   This vascular clitoral engorgement serves both to promote desire by increasing
   sensitivity and for optical and tactile manipulation. The improved blood circulation
25 also leads to an increased leakage of vaginal moisture which makes the stimulation
   more pleasurable. However, the manual operation of the hand pump is often
   annoying or distracting. In addition, the long-term or uninterrupted use of negative
   pressure in this device category may lead to habituation effects, which limit the
   effectiveness of the device in the long run. Moreover, a pure increase in the clitoral
30 blood flow is often insufficient to reach a climax; vacuum pumps are thus often
   3518322v1

                                             3
   used only as foreplay to achieve the climax with a subsequent direct (pressure)
   massage of the erogenous zone.
          Electrically driven vacuum pumps are also used increasingly instead of
 5 manually operated vacuum pumps as well. As an example of this, WO 2006 / 05
   82 91 A2 discloses a device for sexual therapy, wherein the arrangement consists
   of a tubular suction chamber for the clitoris, an electric vacuum source (vacuum
   pump) and a plurality of airflow openings. The operation of the vacuum pump
   generates a permanent airflow or air exchange in the chamber in the area of the
10 clitoris. This has the disadvantageous effect of suctioning the increasingly leaking
   vaginal moisture caused by the negative-pressure, thus having a drying effect on
   the stimulated parts of skin. Likewise, the suctioned moist air leads to a
   contamination of the fluidic subsequent vacuum arrangement, of the vacuum pump
   for example. Such arrangements with vacuum pumps may thus be hygienically
15 problematic, as vacuum pumps and the associated valves or ventilation
   components often have dead spaces or blind spots and/or are difficult to clean.
   Furthermore, the device is meant to treat the blood vessels in the clitoris and not to
   provide stimulation up to sexual climax.
20        US 6 099 463 A discloses a clitoris stimulation device with a tubular suction
   chamber, a vacuum source or a vacuum pump and a plurality of valves, which are
   used to control the size of the vacuum. The vacuum can also be in cyclic form to
   achieve a stimulation effect, although habituation effects are also to be expected
   with this device due to the use of a permanent vacuum. As explained above, the
25 disadvantages relating to hygiene and the dehydration of the skin part to be
   stimulated are also present here. Likewise, the pressure-related arrangement with a
   plurality of valves, vacuum pump, etc. is relatively complex.
          US 6 464 653 BI discloses therapeutic devices and methods to generate a
30 clitoral engorgement with the aid of a vacuum generated by a vacuum pump to
   3518322v1

                                               4
   assist in the treatment of clitoral disorders, such as incontinence. A control valve or
   modulator that can be correspondingly covered by a finger is used to manually
   adjust or vary the amount of vacuum in the suction chamber. This requires the
   user's attention and may be distracting or diverting under certain circumstances.
 5 This relatively complex device with additional valves also has the same
   disadvantages relating to hygiene and dehydration as explained above, although the
   device is also used for long-term therapeutic purposes and not for short-term
   sexual stimulation.
10        WO 2008 / 02 80 76 A2 discloses a therapeutic device for women, which is
   mainly dedicated to treating sexual disorders. The device includes a combination
   of indirect stimulation by means of a vacuum chamber and direct stimulation by
   means of mechanical vibrators and oscillators.
15        The negative-pressure in this therapeutic device is used to increase the blood
   flow in the clitoris, while the area of skin is actually stimulated or massaged by
   means of direct mechanical vibrations/oscillations. Thus, a suction cup for placing
   on the area of skin to be stimulated is internally connected with a motor via a
   mechanical connection. The suction cup is extended by the motor once the device
20 is activated, thus increasing the volume of the suction cup. The resulting volume of
   the suction cup and thus the strength of the vacuum can be adjusted by means of
   control elements on the device. The air displaced in the device by the suction
   process is discharged outwardly again via a pipe. The vacuum in this device has
   only a supporting function, while the actual stimulation ensues directly, which also
25 entails the same disadvantages of a direct stimulation as explained above.
          US 2013 / 001 276 9 Al discloses a device in which a pulsating positive
   pressure is used for stimulating an air pressure massage. A pump or compressor
   thus generates a pulsating positive-pressure, which is directed towards the
30 erogenous     zone   to  be    stimulated   by means      of a nozzle.   This   device
   3518322v1

                                                5
   disadvantageously causes the affected area of skin to dry out severely or
   completely. Likewise, there is usually a temperature difference between the
   temperature of the supplied air and the temperature of the area of skin to be
   stimulated, which may be felt to be distracting under certain circumstances. The
 5 same problems of hygiene as explained above also occur in this device, although in
   this case any pathogens or germs or other contaminations located in the device are
   also transported directly to the user's genital area.
           Thus, the prior art devices all have the same disadvantage in common, in that
10 the complexity of the arrangements generating negative-pressure or positive
   pressure may be high and this device may have problems of hygiene.
          Furthermore, the prior art devices have another disadvantage in common, in
   that habituation effects occur in the event of constant or frequently recurring use of
15 negative-pressures.
          Another disadvantage of some of the previously described vacuum devices
   is, firstly, that the negative-pressure has to be limited by means of a control valve
   or a vacuum pump and, secondly, that the negative-pressure is supposed to be
20 reduced by means of a manual opening of a release valve, before the suction cup is
   peeled from the skin. Should one of the valves have a technical defect and/or the
   user operate the device incorrectly, there may be a risk of injury in certain
   circumstances.
25         Thus, in view of the problems as explained above, the problem addressed by
   the invention is to provide a stimulation device with a simple construction that is
   easy and safe to use.
   3518322v1

                                             6
          Another problem addressed by the present invention is to provide a
   stimulation device with an effective stimulation-triggering effect, which is suitable
   for stimulating an erogenous zone, especially the female clitoris.
 5        In addition, partial problems addressed by the invention are to provide a
   device, which prevents the erogenous zones to be stimulated from drying out, is
   hygienic and prevents habituation effects.
          The problem addressed by the invention is solved by the stimulation device
10 according to claim 1. Advantageous developments and embodiments are the
   subject-matter of other alternative independent claims and dependent claims.
          According to the invention, a pressure field generator in the stimulation
   device has at least one first chamber and at least one second chamber with at least
15 one opening for placing on a body part or on the erogenous zone and at least one
   connection element that connects the first chamber with the second chamber.
          This embodiment of chambers according to the invention communicating in
   a fluidic manner via at least one connection element allows the first chamber to
20 simply generate a pressure field in the second chamber by modifying the volume in
   the first chamber, which is occasionally directed at the area of skin to be
   stimulated.
          A pressure field in terms of the invention is a temporally modifiable field of
25 media pressures, with occasional positive-pressures and occasional negative
   pressures, a negative-pressure being a media pressure below the reference pressure
   and an positive-pressure being a media pressure above the reference pressure.
          The medium is usually gaseous, preferably air, but may alternatively or
30 additively, for example, be a liquid medium, such as water or commercially
   3518322v1

                                                7
    available lubricant. For example, the chambers according to the invention may be
    filled with the lubricant prior to using the stimulation device. This allows the
    corresponding area of skin to be stimulated with a suitable skin-friendly liquid in
    lieu of air as well, whatever the user's individual preference. As another example,
  5 the stimulation device may also be used under water with water as the medium (in
    the bathtub, for example).
            The reference pressure is usually the existing ambient pressure in relation to
    the stimulation device at the beginning of use (i.e. prior to placing the stimulation
10  device on the area of skin to be stimulated). In the preferred use of the stimulation
    device with air, the reference pressure is the currently existing air pressure or
    normal pressure.
            The pressure field according to the invention excites the blood circulation of
15  the area of skin to be stimulated, while said area of skin is indirectly massaged,
    thus combining two advantageous effects. The increased blood circulation makes
    the erogenous zone of the person concerned more sensitive, while generating an
    additional massage effect that serves, for example, to stimulate the erogenous zone
    to sexual arousal up to climax. The massage effect is generated by the kinetic
20  energy of the medium flowing out of the first chamber through the connection
    element against the surface of the area of skin to be stimulated. The massage effect
    generated in this way is indirect, i.e. without the area of skin to be stimulated being
    contacted by a solid body, such as a vibrator, which results in the avoidance of the
    initially explained disadvantages of direct stimulation.
25
           By the exemplary use of the temporally modifiable pressure field according
    to the invention on the clitoris, the pressure field imitates a stimulation that usually
    only occurs during sexual intercourse. Likewise, the cohabitation movement
    generates a varying stimulus on the clitoris. It is thus a true-to-life imitation of the
30  natural act of cohabitation, with medical statements confirming that the use of the
    3518322v1

                                               8
   pressure field according to the invention causes neither habituation effects nor
   addiction. This is due in particular to the alternating use of negative- and positive
   pressures (or even to the non-continuous use of only one type of pressure).
 5        Furthermore, the maximum applicable pressure is regularly limited by the
   maximum resilience of the area of skin to be stimulated. Thus, for instance, too
   high a negative-pressure harbors the risk of painful injury, especially in erogenous
   zones. Only stimulation devices working with negative-pressures are usually
   limited to this maximum in their mode of operation. Conversely, the combination
10 of positive- and negative-pressures according to the invention creates an extended
   working area of the stimulation-triggering pressure field or effect, as the working
   area of the pressure can now be exploited to the maximum in both the positive and
   negative area.
15        The orientation of the at least one connection element towards the area of
   skin to be stimulated allows the pressure field to work directly, wherein the
   pressure field is decisively influenced by the configuration of the at least one
   connection element and of the at least one opening from the connection element
   into the second chamber, and is thus adjustable after every use of the stimulation
20 device. Thus, for example, the at least one opening of the connection element may
   be located opposite and preferably directly opposite the body part to be stimulated.
   For example, the connection element in a stimulation device intended for the
   clitoris may have a single passageway with nozzle effect on the clitoris glans
   between the first and second chamber. Alternatively, the at least one connection
25 element may consist of a plurality, for example four, of passageways between the
   chambers, if a larger area of skin is to be stimulated.
          Furthermore, after placing the halfway or partially opened second chamber
   on the area of skin to be stimulated, a self-contained system of media- and airflow
30 is created in the pressure field generator. Thus, for instance, the medium or air is
   3518322v1

                                             9
   moved decisively backwards and forwards between the chambers, while an
   interchange with media or with air from outside the system being at least largely
   avoidable. Thus, the first chamber is preferably connected exclusively with the
   second chamber via or through the connection element. Thus, no first chamber
 5 connections other than those to the second chamber exist; for example, there is no
   direct first chamber connection to the environment of the device via a pressure
   valve or via an air discharge channel.
          For example, the air temperature in the flow system according to the
10 invention rapidly adjusts to the skin temperature, while the distracting supply of
   new (possibly cold) air from outside the system is avoided, as may be the case ,
   inter alia, when using vacuum pumps in prior art. Drying effects are also avoided,
   as very little or no removal of stimulation-promoting fluid, such as bodily fluid,
   occurs in a closed system.
15
          Furthermore, due to the simple construction, the pressure field generator
   according to the invention has the advantage of increased hygiene and improved
   cleanability. The present invention thus avoids valves or pumps/compressors with
   potential dead spaces and places that cannot be cleaned. The pressure field
20 generator according to the invention is thus easy to clean. For example, the
   stimulation device can be simply cleaned by filling the first chamber with a
   cleaning agent and activating the pressure field. Alternatively, the second chamber
   can be arranged to be replaceable, which also simplifies the cleaning of both
   chambers. Furthermore, the chambers according to the invention and the
25 connection element of the pressure field generator can be designed in one-piece,
   wherein the latter consists of a single molded plastic part (e.g. rubber).
          In addition, the construction according to the invention avoids complex
   fluidic elements, such as valves, which leads to a simplification in production.
30
   3518322v1

                                             10
          Furthermore, the stimulation device according to the invention has a drive
   unit, which modifies the volume in the first chamber in such a way that a pressure
   field is generated via the connection element in the second chamber that serves to
   stimulate the erogenous zone, and has a control device that activates the drive unit.
 5
          As a matter of principle, the medium transported between the chambers is
   limited to the maximum volume of the first chamber. In addition, the transported
   volume can be further constructively limited by the maximum possible volume
   modification caused by the drive unit.
10
          This means that the maximum positive- or negative-pressure the stimulation
   device can build up in the second chamber is limited due to the dimensioning of
   the components of the pressure field generator and of the drive. In particular, the
   maximum positive- or negative-pressure can be limited to degree that minimizes or
15 excludes any risk of injury for the areas of skin to be stimulated. As a result, any
   conventional safety valve in prior art or any manual intervention in the stimulation
   process by the user, such as the opening of a release valve, is rendered
   unnecessary.
20        Furthermore, the temporal modification of the pressure field or the
   modification of the pressure field by the control device is automatically controlled
   to a large extent. Thus, for example, the modulation of the pressure field, such as
   intensity, chronological sequence or evolvement, can be pre-saved in the control
   device. As a preference, the temporal modification of the pressure field can have a
25 regular or reoccurring (stimulation) pattern, such as impulses with a stipulated
   cycle or regularly alternating impulse sequences. This allows the user's interaction
   with the stimulation device according to the invention to be limited to switching on
   and off and selecting the stimulation pattern, while the stimulation device
   automatically executes the preferred stimulation pattern. Thus, according to the
30 invention, the user complexity of the stimulation device is low, especially when
   3518322v1

                                             11
   compared with conventional (medical) vacuum stimulation devices. Alternatively,
   or additionally, the simulation pattern of the stimulation device can be individually
   configured by the user during or before operation.
 5        Another aspect of the invention proposes a system according to alternative
   independent claim 14 with the stimulation device according to the invention,
   which has a remote control device arranged separately from the stimulation device,
   wherein the control device of the stimulation device is remotely controlled by the
   remote control device. This allows a conventional wireless (via radio for example)
10 or wired remote control to be employed, in order to allow the remote controlled
   moderation of the stimulation device or the activation thereof by another user.
          Another aspect of the invention proposes a method according to alternative
   independent claims 15 and 18 for stimulating body parts, especially the clitoris.
15 The associated advantages effects and impacts are explained in more detail above
   in relation to the pressure field.
          Another aspect of the invention according to claim 19 proposes the use of the
   stimulation device according to the invention as a sex toy for stimulating the
20 female clitoris. As explained at the beginning, the female clitoris is an especially
   erogenous zone of women, which is why the use according to the invention of an
   indirect massage combined with a negative-pressure stimulation for this body part
   to provide stimulation up to orgasm seems particularly advantageous.
25        The above-described features and functions of the present invention as well
   as other aspects and features are further described in the following with the aid of a
   detailed description of preferred embodiments with reference to the enclosed
   illustrations.
   3518322v1

                                               12
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
           The figures show in:
  5
           Fig. 1   a front view of a first embodiment of the stimulation device
                    according to the invention;
           Fig. 2   a perspective side view of the first embodiment of the stimulation
10                  device according to the invention;
           Fig. 3   a cross-section through the first embodiment of the stimulation
                    device according to the invention;
15         Fig. 4   a cross-section through a pressure field generator of a first aspect of
                    the present invention in the first state;
           Fig. 5   a cross-section through a pressure field generator of a first aspect of
                    the present invention in the second state;
20
           Fig. 6   a cross-section through a pressure field generator of a first aspect of
                    the present invention in the third state;
           Fig. 7   a cross-section through a pressure field generator of a second aspect
25                  of the present invention;
           Fig. 8   a cross-section through a pressure field generator of a third aspect of
                    the present invention;
    3518322v1

                                               13
          Fig. 9   a cross-section through a pressure field generator of a fourth aspect
                   of the present invention;
          Fig. 10 a), b) and c)    cross-sections through a pressure field generator of a
 5                 fifth aspect of the present invention;
          Fig. 11 a partial cross-section through a second embodiment of the
                   stimulation device according to the invention;
10        Fig. 12 a) to f)         various bottom and side views of other aspects of a
                   second chamber of the present invention;
          Fig. 13 a block diagram of an embodiment of the present invention;
15        Fig. 14 a) to d)         Diagrams of various pressure modulation patterns of
                   the present invention
                       DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
20        With reference to Fig. 1, a front view of a first embodiment of stimulation
   device 1 is explained, wherein Fig. 2 shows a perspective view and Fig. 3 a cross
   section of the first embodiment of stimulation device 1 according to the invention.
          The first embodiment of stimulation device 1 is a preferably electric or small
25 device,    comprising    a housing 8, a pressure       field  generator 2,  operating
   elements 71, a display 72, an on/off switch 74, a socket 75, an optional battery 76
   and optional lighting 9.
          Housing 8 is preferably designed so ergonomically that it can be held
30 comfortably in one hand and has no sharp or pointed edges. Furthermore,
   3518322v1

                                              14
   housing 8 may consist of plastic, such as polycarbonate (PC) or acrylonitrile
   butadiene styrene (ABS). In addition, the gripping areas or even the entire housing
   may be supplemented by or designed in a haptically advantageous silicone.
   Housing 8 is preferably designed to be at least water-resistant or splash-proof, for
 5 example protection class IP 24.
          Operating elements 71 are used to adjust the device operating mode, i.e. to
   adjust the pressure field modulation pattern. Operating elements 71 can, for
   example, be designed as at least one pushbutton, as at least one rotary switch, or as
10 at least one touch-sensitive switch. Furthermore, operating elements 71 can
   produce an optical feedback for activating light emitting diodes (LED) integrated
   in the center of the switch, for example.
          An optional display 72 serves to inform the user of the device status and/or
15 the setting status. Display 72 can for example be configured as a plurality of light
   diodes or as an LCD display. The displayed information can, for example, be the
   charge status of an optional battery or the current setting of the modulation pattern.
          On/off switch 74 is used for activating and deactivating stimulation device 1.
20 This on/off switch 74 can, for example, be a pushbutton, which switches
   stimulation device 1 on or off when held down, or a ratcheting slide switch.
          A socket 75 is used to supply the external power of stimulation device 1 via
   an external plug 73, which is connected to an external power adapter, for example.
25 To ensure stimulation device 1 is splash-proof, a magnetic-inductive transformer
   may be provided instead of the socket, which allows power to be transmitted to
   stimulation device 1 without any electroconductive contact. Stimulation device 1
   preferably also has a battery, such as a nickel metal hydride battery (NiMH) for
   wireless operation. Alternatively, a (longer) power supply cable may also be led
30 out of the stimulation device.
   3518322v1

                                              15
          Pressure field generator 2 of a first embodiment has a first chamber 3 in the
   interior of stimulation device 1, a second chamber 4 for placing on a body part 11
   to be stimulated, and a connection element 5, which connects the first chamber 3
 5 with the second chamber 4.
          A drive unit 6, such as an electric motor, drives the first chamber 3 via an
   axis 61 and by means of an eccentric 62 (or alternatively by means of a connecting
   rod) in such a way that the volume of the first chamber 3 is modified according to
10 the rotation of axis 61 of drive unit 6. It is hereby annotated that any drive types
   causing a deflection in wall 31 of the first chamber 3 for volume modification can
   basically be used in stimulation device 1. The latter may, for example, occur
   hydraulically,       pneumatically,       piezoelectrically,    mechanically      or
   electromagnetically. Examples of this are described in more detail later on.
15
          A control device 7 activates drive unit 6, operating elements 71          and
   display 72. Control device 7 and drive unit 6 are supplied with power by internal
   battery 76 and/or external power supply 73.
20        Optional lighting 9 is provided on or in housing 8. Lighting 9 is preferably
   used for lighting the interior of the second chamber 4. Lighting 9 can either be
   switched by the user or automatically activated by activating stimulation device 1.
   Furthermore, lighting 9 can be composed of energy-saving light diodes. The
   lighting can, for example, serve as an orientation aid in the dark for the user of
25 stimulation device 1 or as additional optical stimulation.
          With reference to Fig. 4, 5 and 6, the construction and function of a first
   aspect of pressure field generator 2 of stimulation device 1 is subsequently
   described in more detail.
30
   3518322v1

                                             16
          Fig. 4 shows pressure field generator 2 in a first state, with the second
   chamber 4 being placed on the area of skin or body part 11 to be stimulated. The
   first state of pressure field generator 2 is characterized by a neutral deflection of
   the first chamber 3, i.e. no external force is exerted on the first chamber 3, for
 5 example, by the drive unit. Here, volume VI of the first chamber is the standard
   volume of this chamber 3.
          The body part 11 to be stimulated is an area of skin on the body, wherein for
   example an especially sensitive erogenous zone, clitoris 12, is shown. The use of
10 the present invention is thus not limited to the female clitoris 11, instead
   stimulation device 1 can be used on all body parts or erogenous zones (such as the
   inside of the upper thighs, the loins, neck, nipples, etc.), which can be stimulated
   by means of media- or air-pressure massage and/or negative-pressure.
15        Due to being placed on the body part 11 to be stimulated, the second
   chamber 4 forms a chamber largely or completely sealed off from the exterior of
   pressure field generator 2, which is only still connected to the second chamber via
   connection element 5, wherein the edges of chamber 4 ideally form an air-tight
   bond with the surface of body part 11. Two communicating chambers 3 and 4 are
20 created in this way, wherein corresponding pressure equalization via connection
   element 5 ensues between chambers 3 and 4 in the event of a volume modification
   in one of chambers 3 or 4.
          Wall 31 of the first chamber 3 is secured by means of a holder 32. Holder 32
25 is in turn attached to housing 8. Wall 41 of the second chamber is further affixed to
   holder 32. Two mutually aligned openings in wall 41 of the second chamber and of
   holder 32 jointly form connection element 5, which connects the first chamber 3
   and the second chamber 5. Wall 31, holder 32 and wall 41 are preferably adhered
   to each other media- or air-tightly. Alternatively, the latter can also be press-fitted
30 or screwed together with each other (for example by means of sealing areas
   3518322v1

                                             17
   between housing 8 and the respective part). Holder 32 can also be adhered or
   screwed onto housing 8, for example.
          Wall 31 of the first chamber 3 preferably consists of a flexible media- or
 5 airtight material, such as rubber. Holder 32 preferably consists of a rigid plastic,
   which is just as media- and airtight. Wall 41 of the second chamber is preferably
   made of a flexible, skin-friendly material, such as silicone or rubber.
          Fig. 5 shows pressure field generator 2 of Fig. 4 in a second state, wherein
10 the second chamber 4 is in turn placed on the body part 11 to be stimulated. The
   second state is characterized in that a force A affecting the first chamber 3 causes
   chamber 3 to expand. In detail, force A in this embodiment draws wall 31 of the
   first chamber 3 in a direction facing away from the second chamber 4.
15        Volume V2 in chamber 3 increases as a result, i.e., V2 > VI. To equalize the
   difference in pressure created between chambers 3 and 4, the media or air now
   flows from the second chamber 4 into the first chamber 3.
          Assuming that the first state of the present pressure in chambers 3 and 4
20 corresponds to the currently prevailing external reference pressure (air pressure for
   example); the present overall pressure in the second state will now be less than the
   external reference pressure. This negative-pressure is designed in such a way that it
   is preferably less than the usual systolic blood pressure in the blood vessels of
   body part 11. The blood circulation in this area thus increases and clitoris 12 is
25 better supplied with blood in the second state.
          Fig. 6 shows pressure field generator 2 in a third state, wherein the second
   chamber 4 is in turn placed on the body part 11 to be stimulated. The third state is
   characterized in that a force B influencing the first chamber 3 causes a volume
30 reduction or compression in chamber 3. In detail, the direction of force B is
   3518322v1

                                             18
   opposed to the direction of force A and distorts wall 31 of the first chamber in such
   a way that the resulting volume V3 of the chamber is less than volume VI. The
   compression of chamber 3 causes an positive-pressure in chamber 3, which is
   equalized by a media- or airflow through connection element 5 in the direction of
 5 the second chamber 4.
          This media flow is now preferably directed by the orientation of opening 51
   and/or of connection element 5 towards the body part 11 to be stimulated, in
   particular towards the glans of clitoris 12. The indirect (pressure) massage
10 according to the invention ensues due to the medium flowing onto body part 11.
   The size of opening 51 is dimensioned in such a way that it is small enough in ratio
   to the volume displaced in the first chamber 3 to sufficiently accelerate the
   medium for a perceptible massage effect.
15        Furthermore, the type of flow can not only be advantageously influenced by
   the size and orientation of opening 51, but also by the inner configuration of the
   connection element. For example, helix-shaped grooves in connection element 5
   can cause the flow according to the invention to swirl, wherein the flow profile of
   the flow unfurls a "softer" or more turbulent effect on the body part to be
20 stimulated. Alternatively, the resulting pressure field in the second chamber 4 can
   be adjusted by means of a plurality of openings 51, depending on use.
          The advantageous factor of the arrangement shown in Fig. 4 to 6 is that it is
   hygienically unproblematic (due to the avoidance of dead spaces, for example) and
25 is simple to produce. For example, no valves or other openings in or on the first
   chamber 3 are required.
          Fig. 7 shows a second aspect of the present invention with an alternative
   construction of pressure field generator 2. Walls 31 and 41 of the first and second
30 chambers 3 and 4 respectively can thus engage with one another in such a way that
   3518322v1

                                              19
   they also form two communicating chambers with a connection element 5, as in
   the first aspect of the construction of pressure field generator 2. Thus, the separate
   holder is no longer required, while the second chamber 4 is replaceable. In
   addition, connection element 5 can be designed integrally or in one-piece with
 5 wall 41 of the second chamber 4. A replaceable chamber 4 has the advantage of
   allowing the use of any shapes of chamber 4 adjusted to the respective body part (a
   more detailed description thereof is provided later), without the entire stimulation
   device 1 needing to be replaced. Alternatively, the second chamber 4 can also be
   pluggably affixed to housing 8 (not shown in more detail). Wall 31 of the first
10 chamber 3 can be adhered or screwed onto housing 8, for example.
          Also, as shown in more detail in Fig. 7 by the broken line and double arrow
   C, the first chamber 3 is expanded and compressed by a force exerted
   perpendicularly to the axial direction of connection element 5. In principle, the
15 force exerted directly or indirectly on the first chamber 3 by drive unit 5 can be
   exerted from any direction. The only decisive criterion here is that the volume of
   the first chamber 3 can be increased and decreased by drive unit 6.
          Fig. 8 shows a third aspect of the invention with an integral or one-piece
20 structure of pressure field generator 2. An elastic material, such as silicone or
   rubber, can be used as material for chambers 3 and 4. The advantage here is that
   any hygienically unsafe divide is avoided and the production effort is reduced.
   Pressure field generator 2 can be adhered or screwed onto housing 8 in this case
   too. Any modification of the volume in the first chamber 3 is analogous here, as
25 described in conjunction with Fig. 7.
          Fig. 9 shows a fourth aspect of the invention with an alternative construction
   of pressure field generator 2. The second chamber 4, a plurality of connection
   elements 5, as well as partial sections of wall 31 of the first chamber 3 are
30 designed in one-piece. Alternatively, pressure field generator 2 can be constructed
   3518322v1

                                              20
   in two or more pieces from individual components, while safeguarding the
   geometrical example of Fig. 9 in a similar way to that shown in Fig. 4 or 7.
          The volume in chamber 3 is modified in a similar way to a piston pump,
 5 although no valves are available here. A piston 63 is thus moved backwards and
   forwards by the drive unit, for example an electric motor or electromagnet, in the
   directions of the double arrow D. This type of drive has the advantage that the
   volume of the first chamber 3 can be simply reduced to zero or almost zero, thus
   allowing the first chamber 3 to be almost completely emptied.
10
          The embodiment of connection element 5, with a plurality of channels 52
   and openings 51, leads to a distribution of the pressure field to a plurality of
   concentration points. While the embodiment of connection element 5 with only
   one channel, as described in conjunction with Fig. 6, leads to the formation of a
15 strongly concentrated media- or airflow on a target area, the embodiment of
   connection element 5 shown in Fig. 9 allows the media- or airflow to be distributed
   to a plurality of target areas, thus allowing clitoris 11 to be blown not just on its
   glans, but equally from a plurality of directions as well, for example,. Depending
   on use, this distribution of the airflow concentration to a plurality of areas can help
20 to avoid any overstimulation and/or help to increase the stimulation area.
          Fig. 10a to 10c show a fifth aspect of the invention with (partial) cross
   sections of a construction of pressure field generator 2 with a bending element 64
   as drive for modifying the volume in the first chamber 3. Bending element 64 can,
25 for example, be a conventional piezoelectric bending element, which distorts or
   bends once voltage is applied. In this aspect of the invention wall 31 of the first
   chamber 3 is a rigid or stiff construction, while bending element 64 is suitably
   dovetailed to the sides of the first chamber 3. The transition points between
   bending element 64 and wall 31 are sealed (elastically bonded for example). The
30 drive for pressure field generator 2 is already integrated in this construction and an
   3518322v1

                                             21
   external drive is not required. An electric motor with an eccentric is not needed,
   for example. This allows, inter alia, the reduction of any disturbing natural
   oscillations due to the eccentric movement of the stimulation device.
 5        In detail, Fig. 10a shows pressure field generator 2 with bending element 64
   in a neutral position. Thus, the volume of the first chamber 3 with bending
   element 64 in the neutral position is the standard volume. Fig. 10b also shows the
   first chamber 3 with an excited and, consequently, outwardly bent bending
   element, while the volume of the first chamber 3 is increased, with a negative
10 pressure consequently prevailing in pressure field generator 2. Fig. 1Oc shows a
   bending element of the first chamber 3 excited in the opposite direction to Fig.
   1Ob, which is why the volume in the first chamber 3 has decreased, with an
   positive-pressure consequently prevailing in pressure field generator 2.
15        Fig. 11 shows a second embodiment of the invention with a locally separated
   arrangement of chambers 3 and 4 of pressure field generator 2. Chambers 3 and 4
   are connected via an extended connection element 5, which can be a longer
   flexible hose or even a rigid pipe. For example, connection element 5 may be 0.5m
   in length. This enables housing 8 to be held in one hand, while the other hand
20 holds the second chamber 4 on the body part 11 to be stimulated; or one can
   simply lay housing 8 aside, while the user holds only the second chamber 4 in
   his/her hands. The stimulation device in this embodiment can also be designed as a
   table device.
25 Fig. 12 a) to 12 f) show various bottom and side views of other aspects of the
   second chamber 4 of the present invention. In detail, Fig. 12 a) shows a bottom
   view of a circular second chamber 4 with a centrally arranged opening 51; Fig. 12
   b) a bottom view of a triangular second chamber 4 with a centrally arranged
   opening 51; Fig. 12 c) a bottom view of an oval second chamber 4 with a centrally
   3518322v1

                                               22
   arranged opening 51; and Fig. 12 d) a bottom view of an almost eight-shaped
   second chamber 4 with two openings 51 shifted to the center. Fig. 12 e) further
   shows a side cross-section of a second chamber 4 according to the invention,
   wherein the second chamber 4 has an additional extended contact surface 43 to the
 5 skin or a support part 43 to improve the sealing function of the second chamber 4
   on the skin. The extended contact surface 43 may also have grooves or projections
   that improve the sealing function even more. Fig. 12 f) shows a side cross-section
   of a second chamber 4 with a plurality of separate connection elements 5 and an
   extended contact surface due to support part 43.
10
          In principle, the form of the second chamber 4 can thus be adjusted to the
   anatomy of the erogenous zone to be stimulated. The form of chamber 4 in Fig. 12
   a) is, for example, adjusted to the round shape of the breast, while the form of
   chamber 4 in Fig. 12 c) is better suited to the form of the female vulva.
15 Furthermore, the shape of the second chamber 4 also determines the characteristic
   of the pressure field according to the invention. The size of the second chamber 4
   in ratio the volume displaced from chamber 3 thus determines the amount of the
   achievable    negative-   or positive-pressure.     Furthermore,    the   proximity   of
   opening 51 of connection element 5 to the area of skin to be stimulated can also be
20 used to determine the intensity of the massage effect according to the invention on
   said area of skin. A plurality of openings 51, cf. Fig. 12 d) allows the massage
   effect to be distributed to a plurality of areas. Thus, for example, the clitoris can be
   less directly stimulated at the very sensitive clitoris glans (cf. Fig. 12 e), and more
   stimulated at the areas surrounding the clitoris glans, in order to prevent
25 overstimulation of the clitoris.
          Fig. 13 shows a block diagram of an example of the functional construction
   of an embodiment of the present invention with a control device 7, a drive unit 6,
   lighting 9, an on/off switch 74, operating elements 71, a battery 76 and an external
30 power supply 73.
   3518322v1

                                               23
           Control device 7, which has a microcontroller or is hardwired, for example,
   initially controls the power supply of all users of stimulation device 1, as well as an
   optional charging and discharging          process of battery 76    and/or a battery
 5 management. In particular, control device 7 controls the excitation of drive unit 6,
   such as the size of the deflection, the frequency, the modulation, etc.
          Furthermore, control device 7 may have a memory in which at least one
   modulation or stimulation pattern (described in more detail in conjunction with
10 Fig. 14 a) to d)) is saved. The excitation of drive unit 6 can now be activated via
   operating elements 71 in compliance with the previously saved stimulation pattern
   at the discretion of the user of stimulation device 1. The stimulation pattern of the
   pressure field can also be optionally and individually adjusted and saved by the
   user via the operating elements.
15
          Fig. 14 a) shows the chronological sequence of a total pressure p in the
   pressure field generator (2) when using the latter for stimulation. The broken line
   provides the reference pressure, such as the currently prevailing atmospheric
   pressure that exists outside the pressure field generator (2). If the second
20 chamber 4 is now placed on body part 11 to be stimulated, the originally prevailing
   ambient pressure in the pressure field generator (2) is maintained, for example. It is
   now assumed that the second chamber 4 is sealed tightly to the body part to be
   stimulated for the most part. Once the stimulation device is activated, drive unit 6
   is activated or excited by control device 7 according to a previously saved
25 stimulation pattern. Accordingly, the volume of the first chamber 3 and thus the
   total pressure in pressure field generator 2 are modified, with the pressure
   modifications being modified to the reference pressure. The pressure or stimulation
   pattern shown as an example in Fig. 14 a) develops a pulsed, regular pressure field.
   In phases of pressure increase, the erogenous zone to be stimulated is blown on or
30 massaged, while in the times when a negative-pressure prevails, the blood
   3518322v1

                                             24
   circulation of body part 11, the clitoris for example, is promoted. Thus, time
   periods according to the invention exist (designated in Fig. 14 a) as I)) in which a
   negative-pressure prevails, while the clitoris is simultaneously indirectly massaged.
 5        Fig. 14 b) shows three examples of alternative stimulation patterns. Thus, the
   area designated as II) shows a pulsed stimulation pattern with high amplitude. The
   area designated as III) shows a pulsed stimulation pattern with low amplitude.
   Furthermore, the area designated as IV) illustrates an irregular and asymmetrical
   stimulation pattern as regards chronological sequence and amplitude. The patterns
10 can be varied according to individual bodily effect/use and according to individual
   wishes.
          Fig. 14 c) shows another example of an alternative stimulation pattern. The
   strength of pressure may, for example, increase with time, in order to adjust to the
15 user's state of excitement.
          In addition to the explained embodiments, the invention allows other basic
   design principles. For example, different arrangements or constructions of the first
   chamber 3 may be arbitrarily combined with various embodiments of the second
20 chamber 5 or connection element 5. For example, the first chamber 3 with the
   drive in Fig. 10 can be combined with the second chamber in Fig. 12 f).
          Although only one first chamber 3 is shown in all embodiments, two or more
   first chambers 3 may be present, which are then appropriately activated
25 simultaneously or time-delayed in such a way that their volume is modified in
   order to build up a pressure field according to the invention.
          Although only one opening from the first chamber 3 to connection element 5
   is shown in all embodiments, a plurality of openings for a connection element 5 or
   3518322v1

                                              25
    even more openings for a plurality of connection elements 5 may be present in the
    first chamber 3.
           A stimulation device 1 can have a plurality of pressure field generator 2.
  5 Thus, for example, two pressure field generators may be available to stimulate two
    erogenous zones simultaneously.
           The stimulation patterns according to the invention can deviate from the
    patterns shows in Fig. 14 a), b) and c), as long as they have a chronological
10  sequence of over- and negative-pressures. For example, a relatively long-lasting
    negative-pressure can initially be built up at the beginning or after activation of the
    device (3 minutes for example), in order to effectively increase the blood
    circulation of the zone to be stimulated, whereupon pulsed negative- and over
    pressures of a slowly increasing amplitude then follow.
15
           In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or
    similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
    method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those
    elements solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
20
           The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
    taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms
    part of the common general knowledge.
25
    3518322v1

                                            26
     List of Reference Numerals:
              1    Stimulation device
              2    Pressure field generator
 5            3    First chamber
              4    Second chamber
              5    Connection element
              6    Drive unit
              7    Control device
10            8    Housing
              9    Lighting
              11 Body part
              12 Clitoris
              31   Wall of first chamber
15            32 Holder
              41 Wall of second chamber
              42 Opening of first chamber
              43 Contact surface
              51   Opening of connection element to second chamber
20            61   Drive shaft
              62 Eccentric
              63 Piston
              64 Bending element
              71   Operating element
25            72 Display
              73 Power supply
              74 On/off switch
              75 Socket
              76 Battery
30            77 Control board
   3518322v1

                                               27
          Claims
           1. A stimulation device, comprising:
          a chamber having a flexible wall portion;
          a drive unit in physical communication with the flexible wall portion so as to
cause deflections of the flexible wall portion in opposing directions, thereby resulting in
a changing volume of the chamber,
          the changing volume of the chamber resulting in modulated positive and
negative pressures with respect to the ambient pressure;
          an opening for applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body
part;
          a control device for controlling the drive unit; and
          a housing enclosing the chamber, the drive unit, and the control device.
          2. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the opening is further
for placing over the body part.
          3.   The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the body part is a
clitoris.
          4.  The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, further comprising a second
chamber.
          5. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the medium of the
pressure field is water.
          6.   The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the center of the
flexible wall is visible from the opening.
          7. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulation device
has no valves.

                                            28
        8. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the stimulation device
is a portable hand-held device with a battery.
        9. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, further comprising:
        a water resistant housing such that the device can be used under water in a bath
tub.
         10. The stimulation device as recited in claim 1, wherein the modulated positive
and negative pressures having substantially equal amplitudes.
         11. A method comprising:
        causing deflections, by a drive unit, of a center of a flexible wall portion of a
chamber in opposing directions, thereby resulting in a changing volume of the chamber,
        the changing volume of the chamber resulting in modulated positive and
negative pressures with respect to the ambient pressure; and
        applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body part through
an opening,
        wherein an electric control device controls the drive unit.
         12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the changing volume of the
chamber results in the modulated positive and negative pressures in a second chamber.
         13. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the opening is placed over the
body part.
         14. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the body part is a clitoris.
         15. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the opposing directions are such
that one direction is substantially facing to the opening and the other direction is
substantially facing away from the opening.
         16. A stimulation device, comprising:

                                               29
          a valveless pressure field generator having a flexible wall portion;
          a drive unit in physical communication with the flexible wall portion so as to
cause deflections of the flexible wall portion in opposing directions, thereby resulting in
a changing volume of the pressure field generator,
          the changing volume of the pressure field generator resulting in modulated
positive and negative pressures with respect to the ambient pressure;
          an opening for applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body
part;
          a control device for controlling the drive unit; and
          a housing enclosing the drive unit and the control device.
           17. The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the opening is further
for placing over the body part and is formed oval.
           18. The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the body part is a
clitoris.
           19. The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the pressure field
generator comprises a first chamber and a second chamber.
          20. The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the medium of the
pressure field is water.
          21. The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the housing is water
resistant such that the device can be used under water in a bath tub.
          22.   The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the opposing
directions are such that one direction is substantially facing to the opening and the other
direction is substantially facing away from the opening.
          23.   The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the modulated
positive and negative pressures having substantially equal amplitudes.

                                                  30
             24.   The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the modulated
positive and negative pressures are part of a stimulation pattern, wherein the user of the
 device can change the stimulation pattern by means of an operating element.
             25.    The stimulation device as recited in claim 16, wherein the pressure
 generator is arranged such that there is an line-of-sight between the center of opening
 and the center of the flexible wall.
             26. A method comprising:
              causing deflections, by a drive unit, of a flexible wall portion of a pressure field
 generator in opposing directions, thereby resulting in a changing volume of the pressure
 field generator,
             the changing volume of the pressure field generator resulting in resulting in a
 stimulation pattern comprising modulated positive and negative pressures with respect
to the ambient pressure; and
              applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body part through
 an opening,
             wherein an electric control device controls the drive unit;
             wherein no valve is involved in the generation of the stimulation pattern.
             27. The method as recited in claim 26, wherein causing deflections in a flexible
wall portion of a pressure field generator in opposing directions comprises:
              causing deflections in the flexible wall portion of a first chamber of the pressure
 field generator, thereby resulting in the modulated positive and negative pressures in a
 second chamber of the pressure field generator.
             28. The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the opening is placed over the
body part and is formed oval.
             29. The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the body part is a clitoris.
'7Jl 1O7O1 -I

                                             31
         30. The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the user of the device can
change the stimulation pattern by means of an operating element.
         31.  The method as recited in claim 26, wherein the modulated positive and
negative pressures having substantially equal amplitudes.
         32. A method comprising:
         causing deflections, by a drive unit, of a flexible wall portion of a pressure field
generator in opposing directions, thereby resulting in a changing volume of the pressure
field generator,
         the changing volume of the chamber resulting in a stimulation pattern
comprising a chronological sequence of modulated positive and negative pressures with
respect to an ambient pressure, the modulated positive and negative pressures having
substantially the same duration; and
         applying the modulated positive and negative pressures to a body part through
an opening,
         wherein an electric control device controls the drive unit.
         33.  The method as recited in claim 32, wherein the modulated positive and
negative pressures of the stimulation pattern having substantially equal amplitudes.
3518791v1

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        Fig. 1
75
                         1/ 7

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        Fig. 2
                        2/ 7
73

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        Fig. 3
                         3/ 7
73

<removed-date>
                       4/ 7
              Fig. 4
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 5
              Fig. 6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       5/ 7

                                                6/ 7
<removed-date>
              Fig. 10a                   Fig. 10b             Fig. 10c
                                Cpi
                         64 ^             64   ^         '
                                ^Fr                 \
                                                         JF
<removed-apn>
                                    31                   31              31
               Fig. 12d                  Fig. 12e              Fig. 12f
                                                                              41
                                                                              43

                                   7/ 7
<removed-date>
               Fig. 13
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 14a
                         P [bar]
                                          Reference
                                          Pressure
              Fig. 14b
                         P [bar]
                                          Reference
                                          Pressure
              Fig. 14c
                         P [bar]
                                          Reference
                                          Pressure

