ABSTRACT
Among other things, embodiments of the present disclosure can collect and analyze asset and
network data from multiple sources, and use such data to present a more complete and accurate
representation of the network connections between various systems and software applications
and the policies dictating the operation of security controls on a network compared to
conventional systems.
Fig. 23

WO 2016/036485                                                                    PCT/US2015/044865
                                                     23/24
                                         jAssets          (3)
                                      PCL AppServerAPP1-1
                                      PCLAppServerAPP1-2
                                      PCL-AppServerAPP1-3
                                 TrustZone PCI Appi DB
                             Listening Services (4)
  incoming Flows (4)                                                             Outgoing Flows (4)
                             RDP (TCP     3389)
RDP (TCP 3389)               RPC (TCP     135)                              RPC (TCP 135)
RPC (TCP 135)                DTC (TCP     1024)                             RPC (TCP 49152)*
DTC (TCP 1024)               SQL (TCP     1433)                             LDAP (TCP/UDP 389)
SQL (TCP 1433)                                                              Kerberos (TCP/UDP 88)
                             Vulnerabilities (21)  -  Scanned 06/21/14
                             High -3
                             Med- 6
                             Low -12
            Security Controls Applied (Select to View)
                                 ~        tel       .. ................
                      DattaO-ata                                    Data     Dt
                                         AFirewall Vulneability
                                         Ate                       HDStlPs  Fas
                                                                           Ntotn
                                             FIGURE 23

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
                                SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR
                          NETWORK ANALYSIS AND REPORTING
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
         [0001] This application claims priority to U.S. Pat. App. Ser. No. 14/523,624, filed Oct.
24, 2014 and entitled "SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NETWORK ANALYSIS AND
REPORTING", and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/060,433, filed October 6, 2014
and entitled "SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NETWORK ANALYSIS AND REPORTING,"
and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62/046,807, filed September 5, 2014 and entitled
"SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NETWORK FLOW ANALYSIS AND REPORTING"; this
application is related to U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application No. 13/918,633, filed June 14,
2013 and entitled "SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DYNAMIC NETWORK SECURITY
CONTROL AND CONFIGURATION," the content of which are incorporated by references in
their entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
         [0002] Exemplary embodiments described herein relate to systems and methods for
network security control.
         [0003] Information security architects and security operators, as well as governance, risk
and compliance (GRC) personnel all face various challenges with respect to validating that
security technical controls are in place and functioning for an asset or a group of assets within
the corporate computing environment. Furthermore, conventional systems for network
monitoring and control typically have limited or no ability to contextualize security and
compliance-relevant data from various components of systems for computing, security control,
and/or management. Such challenges can be particularly difficult in distributed computing,
SV 347429307v3                                     1

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
virtualized computing systems, or "cloud computing" systems, where the components and
environment of such systems may change frequently and rapidly.
         [0004] Additionally, conventional systems for network monitoring and control typically
only use data from a single source, or only one type of data (such as network flow data), thereby
excluding potential sources of important context-supporting data and providing a one
dimensional, network-protocol-centric view of information flow between networked systems.
         [0005] Embodiments of the present disclosure help to address such challenges.
                                            SUMMARY
         [0006] Among other things, embodiments of the present disclosure can collect and
analyze asset and network data from multiple sources, and use such data to present a more
complete and accurate representation of the network connections between various systems and
software applications and the policies dictating the operation of security controls on a network
compared to conventional systems.
         [0007] A computer-implemented method according to one embodiment of the present
disclosure includes collecting, by a computer system, data from a plurality of different types of
sources, wherein the collected data includes network data and asset data; identifying, by the
computer system based on the network data in the collected data, a network traffic event and a
plurality of network assets related to the network traffic event; identifying, by the computer
system based on the asset data in the collected data, connections between the plurality of network
assets; generating, by the computer system, a flow information graph that depicts the plurality of
network assets and the connections between the plurality of network assets, wherein the flow
information graph depicts network traffic that is allowed between network assets and network
                                                -2-

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
traffic that is blocked between network assets; and presenting the flow information graph via a
display of a user interface in communication with the computer system.
         [0008] The present disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these
methods, including data processing systems which perform these methods, and computer
readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause
the systems to perform these methods.
         [0009] Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the
detailed description which follows.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0010] A more complete understanding of certain embodiments may be derived by
referring to the detailed description and claims when considered in connection with the following
illustrative figures.
         [0011] Figure 1 depicts an exemplary computing environment that may be used in
conjunction with various embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [0012] Figure 2 depicts exemplary security control and management components
according to various embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [0013] Figure 3 depicts a logical representation of various logical zones according to
various embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [0014] Figure 4 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method according to various aspects
of the present disclosure.
         [0015] Figures 5-7 illustrate the calculation and display of compliance levels according
to various aspects of the present disclosure.
                                                  - 3-

     WO 2016/036485                                                              PCT/US2015/044865
         [0016] Figure 8 is a block diagram of an exemplary system according to various aspects
of the present disclosure.
         [0017] Figure 9 is a flow diagram of an exemplary method according to various aspects
of the present disclosure.
         [0018] Figure 10 is an exemplary flow information graph according to various aspects of
the present disclosure.
         [0019] Figure 11 is an exemplary data table according to various aspects of the present
disclosure.
         [0020] Figures 12-24 are screenshots showing examples of interaction with a flow
information graph and data table according to various aspects of the present disclosure.
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
         [0021] Systems, methods and computer program products are provided. In the detailed
description herein, references to "various embodiments", "one embodiment", "an embodiment",
"an exemplary embodiment", etc., indicate that the embodiment described may include a
particular feature, structure, or characteristic, but every embodiment may not necessarily include
the particular feature, structure, or characteristic. Moreover, such phrases are not necessarily
referring to the same embodiment. Further, when a particular feature, structure, or characteristic
is described in connection with an embodiment, it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of
one skilled in the art to effect such feature, structure, or characteristic in connection with other
embodiments whether or not explicitly described. After reading the description, it will be
apparent to one skilled in the relevant art(s) how to implement the disclosure in alternative
embodiments.
                                                   -4-

     WO 2016/036485                                                            PCT/US2015/044865
         [0022] In various embodiments, the methods described herein are implemented using the
various particular machines described herein. The methods described herein may be
implemented using the below particular machines, and those hereinafter developed, in any
suitable combination, as would be appreciated immediately by one skilled in the art. Further, as
is unambiguous from this disclosure, the methods described herein may result in various
transformations of certain articles.
         [0023] For the sake of brevity, conventional data networking, application development
and other functional aspects of the systems (and components of the individual operating
components of the systems) may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore, the connecting
lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary
functional relationships and/or physical couplings between the various elements including, for
example, event streams such as IPFIX data feeds, data channels, direct network inspection (such
as in an intrusion detection system), log feeds, log inspection, and/or programmatic interactions
such as those utilizing an application programming interface. It should be noted that many
alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a
practical system.
         [0024] The present disclosure may reference the following terms defined in the list
below. The definitions in this list are exemplary only. Changes, modifications, and variations
based on different definitions of the terms, as well as different terms, are intended to be included
within the scope of the present disclosure.
         [0025] Asset - a discrete hardware based on virtualized computing system that processes
data in the data center, a virtualized computer or virtual machine. Assets may become a member
                                                 -5-

      WO 2016/036485                                                             PCT/US2015/044865
of a TrustZone either through automated methods as expressed in membership polices or
manually through a user action.
         [0026] Asset attribute - a property of an asset including but not limited to any operating
system configuration setting, data processing application deployed on the asset, application
configuration setting, hardware based or virtualized system component including network
interface, memory, disk, networking component interconnection, unique identifier, name, or any
discrete data component or label associated with an asset, an asset configuration, or the asset's
position within the physical or virtualized datacenter system.
         [0027] Security technical control - a device, technology, software program, or a
configuration or attribute of an element that performs a security function or changes the security
posture or state of an element including but not limited to: firewalling, intrusion detection and
prevention, vulnerability scanning, vulnerability management and mitigation, anti-malware, host
based intrusion detection and prevention, file integrity monitoring, authentication-authorization
auditing, encryption in motion, encryption at rest, encryption key and token management, user
entitlement management, network access control, password length specification, configuration
settings that dictate the operation of a system or element in one or another context of various
security levels.
         [0028] Policy - a policy is a rule, set of rules, and or set of data used to guide the
operation or behavior of a system or system component/element. Specifically a body of data
associated with a security technical control that dictates the behavior and function of that control.
         [0029] Logical zone - an arbitrary grouping of assets that may or may not have common
attributes associated with a set of policies.
                                                  - 6-

      WO 2016/036485                                                         PCT/US2015/044865
         [0030] Hypervisor - a piece of computer software, firmware or hardware that creates and
runs virtual machines.
         [0031] Virtual Switch - a piece of software that provides for the network interconnection
of virtual machines on a hypervisor.
         [0032] Firewall - a software or hardware based security technical control that controls
network traffic passing through it by analyzing the traffic components (packets) and making a
decision to pass or block the traffic based on a set of rules.
         [0033] Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) - a software or hardware based security
technical control that inspects network connections for the purpose of detecting and disrupting
undesirable network traffic based on signatures or behavior modeling.
         [0034] Vulnerability Scanner - a software or hardware based security technical control
that assesses the vulnerability state of assets on the network through the process of connecting to
the asset over the network or running the asset as a process and assessing the asset based on
known vulnerability signatures, vulnerability indicators, observed behaviors of the asset,
programs running on the asset, and/or operational attributes of the asset.
         [0035] Compliance Framework - a structured set of guidelines, processes and procedures
published for the purpose of defining accordance with established regulations, specifications, or
legislation.
         [0036] Catbird TrustZone - a logical zoning construct consisting of collection of policies
that include control configuration policies, membership policies, and a collection of methods that
implement dynamic control reconfiguration in response to changes in the computing
environment.
                                                  -7-

       WO 2016/036485                                                        PCT/US2015/044865
          [0037] GRC - Governance Risk and Compliance, a generalize grouping of three related
functions within an organization that respectively deal with corporate governance, enterprise risk
management (ERM) and corporate compliance with applicable laws and regulation.
          [0038] Embodiments of the present disclosure may monitor all asset attribute changes
(i.e., those assets within or outside of a TrustZone), computing environment changes, network
component changes, security control events, management component events, asset events, and/or
network events. Such events, which may be referred to collectively as "environmental events"
herein, can be monitored within the context of all control configuration policies such that any
control configuration policy can be dynamically modified to assure that the control is still in
effect for any asset in a respective TrustZone.
          [0039] Environmental events within the context of TrustZone members and membership
policy can be monitored such that different sets of security control policies may be dynamically
assigned to, or changed for, any asset in a TrustZone by moving the asset from one TrustZone to
another or by changing a policy or policies for a TrustZone of which that asset is a member.
Such changes may be applied to multiple assets by simultaneously performing the same move
action on multiple assets, particularly in the case of a TrustZone membership change.
          [0040]   Referring now to Figure 1, an exemplary computing environment 100 that may
operate in conjunction with embodiments of the present disclosure is depicted. The components
of environment 100 may be implemented using any desired combination of hardware and
software components, and may be hosted by, for example, host computing system 810 depicted
in Figure 8. Alternatively, or additionally, system 800 (or any portion thereof) may be included
in environment 100. In the example shown in Figure 1, the environment 100 includes four
different types of components: computing elements (CE), networking elements (NE),
                                                  -8-

      WO 2016/036485                                                        PCT/US2015/044865
management elements (ME), and security elements (SE). Embodiments of the present disclosure
may interact with any number of such components, as well as other components. Each
individual component may represent computers or virtual machines including any desired
physical or virtualized hardware computing resources, such as processors, memories, switches,
routers, load balancers, operating systems, software applications, and/or configuration elements
(files, processes, policies, programs). Any element or derivative thereof depicted in Figure 1
may be implemented using any desired combination of physical and virtual components.
Virtualized elements may be bound to physical hardware using any desired hypervisor software,
such as VMware ESXi, Microsoft Hyper-V, and/or OpenStack.
         [0041] Computing elements are characterized by their function as application platforms
dedicated to the processing of data and to providing computer services in the form of
applications to a user population of various privilege levels. One example of a computing
element may include a physical or virtualized Microsoft Windows server or Linux server running
an application.
         [0042] Network elements are characterized by their function of providing for the
interconnectivity (in part or in whole) of various elements within the computing environment
with networking technology and protocols and to providing for the transportation of data
between computing environment elements. Examples of network elements may include routers,
switches, virtualized switches, networks, VLANs, and/or software defined networking
components including virtual extensible LANs (VXLANS).
         [0043] Management elements are characterized by their function as hosting applications
that are dedicated to the management and operation of the computing environment, the
processing of data, and providing management and operational services in the form of
                                                 -9-

     WO 2016/036485                                                         PCT/US2015/044865
management and operation applications to a user population of privileged administrative users.
Management elements may manage other elements including computing elements, network
elements or other management elements. One example of a management element may include a
Microsoft Windows server running VMware vSphere Server software that is managing
hypervisors in the computing environment.
         [0044] Security elements are characterized by their function of providing
implementations of various technical security controls either at the network, host, virtual
machine, asset, program, or process level. Security elements may have hierarchical deployment
architectures that include any desired number of network elements, management elements,
computing elements, programs, processes, and methods implemented in a physical and/or
virtualized format. Examples of security elements may include a firewall appliance and its
management element or software, anti-virus software and its management and update
mechanisms, a vulnerability scanner, and/or a centralized public key infrastructure utilized for
access or user entitlements.
         [0045] Figure 2 depicts components and programmatic inputs and outputs of a Security
Control Management System (SCMS) 200 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure. This embodiment may include various hardware and software components, software
algorithms, data structures, and databases to implement various functions of the SCMS 200.
Alternate SCMS's may have more, fewer, or different components and functionality.
         [0046] In the exemplary embodiment depicted in Figure 2, The SCMS 200 interacts with
the computing environment through programmatic messaging mechanisms implemented via one
or more standardized and/or proprietary interfaces or Application Programming Interfaces
(APIs). The interface may utilize Secure Socket Layer (SSL) encryption, as well as any other
                                               -10-

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
desired encryption techniques to assure privacy and integrity of messages, events, directives and
commands. Encryption techniques utilized by embodiments of the present disclosure may
include mutual authentication for the sending and receiving elements. Programmatic messaging
mechanisms may be implemented in any suitable manner by exemplary embodiments of the
present disclosure such as via APIs, command line interface integrations, database queries,
programmatic collection of display data (i.e., screen scraping), inter process communication
methods, file system access, and others.
         [0047] Through the programmatic messaging mechanisms, the SCMS 200 discovers
information about the computing environment. Such information may include information
related to individual elements, combinations of elements, or all elements. The discovered
information may be used by the SCMS 200 for any desired purpose, such as to identify elements
to be secured by the system and/or to heuristically determine element attributes for configuring
security technical controls. The discovered information may also be used for evaluating
compliance with governmental or industry regulations, security posture, security control
function, security control efficacy, security control coverage, and/or security control operation.
         [0048] The programmatic messaging mechanisms may include (where supported by the
element or elements) the exchange between the element or elements and the SCMS 200, element
related messages, logs, telemetry, configuration settings, data generated by programs or
processes including or not including the SCMS 200, element attributes, data reflecting the
current state and configuration of the element, and any other data relevant to the security
technical controls, policies or benchmarks, either relative to the element itself or as available
from the element or other elements in the computing environment, all of which may be
collectively referred to herein as "events."
                                                - 11 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
         [0049] The programmatic messaging mechanisms may also include a command and/or
configuration interface for reconfiguring the element in terms of configuration settings, policies,
configuration files, the starting and stopping of element components including programs and
processes, and/or to issue commands directly to the element for the purpose of changing the
operational state of the element or to initiate reconfigurations performed through the same
mechanism, all of which may be collectively referred to herein as "directives."
         [0050] In the exemplary embodiment depicted in Figure 2, the various components may
include any desired combination of hardware and/or software components to perform various
functions. For example, the Event Processing and Management component may normalize or
transform such events for archiving and further processing by other components. Normalizations
and transformations may include asset attribute substitution or addition through the addition of
asset relevant identifiers for the purpose of associating the events with an information asset, the
removal of data from the event for space reduction for archival purposes, the addition of
attributes determined by the system to be relative to the originating element through events or
algorithmic output from the system generated from events originating from other elements.
Event processing may include extracting, from the event, streams of data and information
relevant for the creation, maintenance and execution of policies, asset identification,
configuration of security technical controls, and data relevant to the element and the state of the
element relative to benchmarks or baselines consistent with and impacting the level of
compliance with said benchmarks or baselines.
         [0051] The Logical Zone Creation and Configuration performs the tasks related to
TrustZone creation and configuration.     This component deals with the mapping of information
                                                 -12-

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
assets to logical zones (TrustZones) and provides the association of security technical control
policies to the information asset.
         [0052] The Policy and Benchmark Logic and Heuristics component performs the analysis
of the policies and configurations of the security technical controls, relevant to and within the
context of logical zones and the information assets within them within the context of the element
events streams. This component measures data contained in events for the purpose of validating
controls that are still in place and maps those control validations to various compliance
frameworks such as PCI DSS 2.0, HIPAA, COBIT 4.1, DIACAP, and/or FISMA, as well as
arbitrary frameworks, such as those devised at the discretion of an operator through the
specification of various combinations of: policies, technical controls, asset attributes, required
interactions with the SCMS verified by events, and/or attributes of elements of various types,
such as those depicted in Figure 1. This logic evaluates changes in security technical control
configuration and asset attributes and performs security technical control policy reconfigurations
based on those asset attribute changes for the purpose of maintaining the policy and application
of the security technical controls and compliance with the benchmark. This logic evaluates
various policy settings and takes the appropriate actions in response to asset attribute changes
and asset TrustZone membership changes.
         [0053] The Control Management and Directives component performs the construction of
directives and initiates the delivery of directives to the computing environment elements to affect
the appropriate action or actions from the elements including: the generation of events, transfer
of configuration and process data in either direction, the starting and stopping of a security
technical control, the reconfiguration of the security technical control with an updated policy, the
reconfiguration of an element of any type, the starting and stopping of a program or process, the
                                                 -13-

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
change of a configuration or attribute affecting a configuration, and the validation that the
control is applied to any information asset as qualified by configuration data supplied through the
events or directives.
         [0054] The Event Database is a database used for the storage, retrieval, and management
of events from any and all elements including the security control software itself. This database
is used to store and subsequently query events for asset attribute data, security control
configuration data, policy data and event data for the purposes of the various logic blocks and
heuristics implemented in other components.
         [0055] The Asset/Attribute Database is used for the storage, retrieval, and management
of assets and asset attribute data. This database is used to store and subsequently query asset and
asset attribute data for the purposes of the various logic blocks and heuristics implemented in
other components.
         [0056] The TrustZone Database is a database component used for the storage, retrieval,
and management of logical zones (TrustZones). This component is used to store and
subsequently query, update, modify TrustZones, information assets within a TrustZone, security
technical control policies associated with the TrustZone for the purposes of the various logic
blocks and heuristics implemented in other components.
         [0057] The Policy Database is a database component used for the storage, retrieval,
querying, and management of policies for the security technical controls, assets, software
implementing embodiments of the present disclosure (or portions thereof), and the environment.
         [0058] Figure 3 depicts the logical representation of Logical Zones, also referred to
herein as TrustZones. This configuration construct, with its associated data structures, binds
assets and groups of assets through the application of policies that dictate the function and
                                                 -14-

     WO 2016/036485                                                            PCT/US2015/044865
behavior of the security technical controls. TrustZones can have arbitrary numbers of assets and
security technical control policies. Different security technical controls may have policy
constructs that allow for hierarchical or logical inheritance from/with other policies so the
depiction of a Control-N policy represents the collection of all security technical control
configuration policies, files, data, configuration settings that specify the specific operation of the
security technical control at any time, stored as a unit for security technical control N.
        [0059] Whereas the number of control policies may be contingent on the number of
supported security technical controls, new controls may be integrated with embodiments of the
present disclosure as such controls are developed and become available, and can result from the
combination of control functional data and events from multiple security technical controls.
Accordingly, the number of control policies may vary based on the security requirements for the
computing environment and the technical security controls available and configured.
        [0060] TrustZone membership policies may dictate how assets are automatically placed
into one or more TrustZones based on asset attributes and events originating from any element as
collected by the SCMS. Each asset can be assessed, as events indicating an asset attribute has
changed are received by the security control software, within the context of all TrustZone
membership policies so as to affect a TrustZone membership change by moving the asset from
one TrustZone to another or adding the asset to another TrustZone.
        [0061] Any combination and/or subset of the elements of the methods depicted herein
may be practiced in any suitable order and in conjunction with any suitable system, device,
and/or process. The methods described and depicted herein can be implemented in any suitable
manner, such as through security control software operating on one or more computer systems,
including host system 810 depicted in Figure 8. The security control software may comprise
                                                 -15-

     WO 2016/036485                                                        PCT/US2015/044865
computer-readable instructions stored in a tangible computer-readable medium (such as the
memory 814 of host computer system 810) and can be executed by one or more processors (such
as processor 812 of host computer system 810) to perform the methods of various embodiments.
        [0062] Figure 4 depicts an exemplary process according to various embodiments of the
present disclosure. In Figure 4, method 400 includes identifying one or more assets associated
with one or more logical zones (405), establishing connections with one or more components
(410), associating one or more security policies with one or more logical zones (415), detecting
changes in one or more attributes for one or more assets (420), detecting security vulnerabilities
and corrections thereto (425), changing zone memberships for one or more assets (430),
modifying one or more firewall configuration settings (435), associating one or more compliance
policies with one or more logical zones (440), analyzing modifications to the firewall
configuration settings (445), determining one or more compliance levels (450), and displaying
one or more compliance levels (455). The steps of method 400 may be implemented (in whole
or in part, and in any desired order) by software operating on a computer system, such as the
exemplary host computing system 810 depicted in Figure 8.
        [0063] Embodiments of the present disclosure may identify any number of different
assets (405) associated with any number of different logical zones, such as the assets in Logical
Zones 1 and 2 depicted in Figure 2. As discussed above, such assets may include any
combination of physical and virtual components.
        [0064] Connections may be established (410) with any number of different software and
hardware components. Embodiments of the present disclosure may operate in conjunction with
various programmatic messaging mechanisms that help bind the SCMS with the security
technical controls within the environment. The logical zones, or TrustZones, may be created in
                                               -16-

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
any suitable manner, such as through interactions with logical components not depicted, policies
placed on one or more logical zones that are relevant to the security technical controls bound to
the SCMS.
         [0065]   Computing environment events may be received via programmatic messaging
mechanisms that provide various information about the environment, including the assets to be
protected by the security technical controls and/or the state of the security technical controls.
Connections between the security control software and various components (such as
management components) may be made to send and receive information, detect changes in the
attributes of various assets, and to control and configure various systems, such as a firewall
protecting one or more assets or logical zones.
         [0066] In one embodiment, security control software implementing features of the
present disclosure establishes connections via programmatic messaging mechanisms (as
described above) between itself and the management element or asset management component of
a virtualized infrastructure, such as a VMware vSphere server, and between itself and the
management element for a virtualized firewall implemented on the same virtualized
infrastructure, such as a VMware vCNS App firewall. Changes in an attribute of an asset may be
detected via a communication with the management element and the security control software.
         [0067] Assets, and changes in the attributes of assets, may be detected by periodically
querying the management element or other hardware or software components. For example, a
security technical control, referred to herein as a Virtual Infrastructure Monitor (VIM), may use
the connection to the vSphere server to identify and enumerate all virtualized computing
elements (i.e., virtual machines) and all virtual switches. Through the API interface with
vSphere, the security control software implementing the features of the present disclosure may
                                                -17-

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
periodically query and re-enumerate the configured virtual machines and virtual switches, thus
determining the creation of new assets (such as virtual machines and virtual switches) or changes
to the attributes of existing assets by comparing the results of subsequent queries with the
previous query. The attributes for a plurality of different assets controlled by an asset
management component can be monitored by querying the asset management component, as
well as via communications originated by the asset management component to the security
control software.
         [0068] The VIM is also capable of querying various virtual machine configurations and
settings such as the virtual infrastructure Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) for the virtual
machine, the virtual network interface cards, virtual machine interface card Internet Protocol (IP)
address, current position of the virtual machine interface card within the virtual switch or
switches, and many more configuration settings, which may be referred to herein collectively as
"attributes of the virtual machine." Through the processing of events generated by VIM, the
SCMS "incepts" each virtual machine as an information asset within the SCMS, storing the asset
data including attributes in the Asset/Attribute database.
         [0069] In the present exemplary embodiment, the availability of a management element
that provides the API interface to enumerate assets and asset attributes makes this process
programmatically simplified when the computing environment includes a predominantly
virtualized infrastructure. Alternate embodiments could collect and/or create the same or similar
data relative to physical computing elements through the establishment of programmatic
messaging mechanisms with a variety or combination of management elements, other technical
security controls (such as network scanners), and with the physical computing elements
                                                -18-

     WO 2016/036485                                                            PCT/US2015/044865
themselves. Thus, embodiments of the present disclosure may operate with any combination of
physical and virtual components.
         [0070] The system may instantiate another connection with the management element for
the virtualized firewall (i.e., a firewall management component) implemented on the same
virtualized infrastructure. This connection need not necessarily include a technical security
control in of itself, but rather a programmatic interface to the firewall (a technical security
control). The functionality of the firewall can be managed via a communication between the
security control software and the firewall management component. In exemplary embodiments,
the programmatic interface or API enables the SCMS to fully control the firewall, the firewall
operation and firewall policies expressed in configuration settings and access control lists
(ACLs), through a combination of issued directives and collected events to and from the firewall
management element. This connection and API constitutes an orchestrated security technical
control relative to the SCMS.
         [0071] Various security policies may be associated with different assets and/or logical
zones (415) in any suitable manner. For example, an operator of the SCMS, as well as the
software control software itself, may create and configure various logical zones, and security
policies for such zones, expressed as a sequence of rules. In one exemplary embodiment, the
rules may have the form:
         [0072] Source_TrustZoneA         DestinationTrustZoneB protocol port [allow,deny]
         [0073] In this example, each rule is a Zone Access Control rule, and the set of all
configured Zone Access Control rules may be referred to herein as a Zone Access Control List or
ZACL. In the example above, the source TrustZone is named TrustZoneA and the destination
TrustZone is named TrustZoneB. By providing this abstraction, embodiments of the present
                                                 -19-

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
disclosure help to simplify the management of what are known to practitioners of network
security as Access Control Lists, which typically consist of source and destination IP addresses.
While complex and disassociated asset attributes like IP address are used within conventional
ACLs, in the ZACLs utilized by embodiments of the present disclosure, the source and
destination are logical zones which have human readable names that are more identifiable
relative to the information the assets in the ZACLs are protecting with the firewall security
technical control. Referring again to Figure 3, each TrustZone may be associated with a policy
(415) for the firewall security technical control as the TrustZone is placed in the ZACL(e.g., via
adding a Zone Access Control rule containing the TrustZone to the ZACL), whereby changes in
the configuration to the firewall are performed in accordance with the policy. The security
policy can also be edited or replaced for any TrustZone already placed in the ZACL, by for
example, modifying the Zone Access Control rule.
         [0074]   The security control software can monitor changes (420) for all virtual machines
and physical components within one or more logical zones. Event data may be analyzed and
processed, and security technical controls configured or reconfigured (435) via the modification
of policies. Modification of the configuration settings for the firewall may be made based on a
change in a single attribute of a single asset, as well as based on an analysis of multiple attribute
changes for multiple assets. For example, referring again to Figure 3, in a case where the logical
zone memberships for an asset in Logical Zone 1 and an asset in Logical Zone 2 are swapped,
the security control software may analyze the change in zone membership for both assets and
make a single change to the configuration settings for the firewall in accordance with the
analysis. Among other things, considering multiple attribute changes (such as the swap in zone
                                                 - 20 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                             PCT/US2015/044865
membership above) together can help embodiments of the present disclosure avoid repetitive and
spurious modifications to the firewall.
         [0075] Continuing with the example above, when an operator or software places an asset
(Assetl) into TrustZoneA the security control software detects the change in the attributes of the
asset (420), namely the change in TrustZone membership, and modifies the firewall
configuration (435) accordingly. In this example, as a result of the TrustZone change, the
security control software evaluates the asset attribute IP address for Asset1 and then implements
an ACL on the firewall in the firewalls native form (ACL), through a formulated directive to the
firewall. If a second asset (Asset2) is placed into TrustZoneB, the security control software
detects the change (420), evaluates the asset attribute IP address for Asset2, and then implements
an ACL on the firewall (435) in the firewall's native form (ACL) through a formulated directive
to the firewall. At this point, assuming it is desired that all Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
connections between TrustZoneA and TrustZoneB be denied, the native firewall rule (ACL) may
appear as:
         [0076] Asset 1_IPaddress Asset2_IPaddress TCP any deny
         [0077] And the ZACL may appear as:
         [0078] TrustZoneA TrustZoneB TCP any deny
         [0079] For each asset added to either TrustZoneA or TrustZoneB, the system may
continue building the native firewall ACL through subsequent directives, configuring the firewall
automatically as the operator populates the TrustZones with assets.
         [0080] Embodiments of the present disclosure may operate to detect any desired change
in the attributes of an asset, such as the asset's internet protocol (IP) address. For example, if a
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) IP address lease expires and Asset1 receives a
                                                  -21 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
different IP address upon renewal of the lease; or Asset1 receives a different IP address through
DHCP after being powered off for a period of time; or a hacker changes the IP address in an
effort to bypass the network access controls; or an administrator accidently assigns the wrong IP
address (mis-typing) - in all cases, the IP address of Asset1 changes. Because the security
control software of the present disclosure is monitoring the asset attributes of all assets (e.g.,
through VIM), when an asset attribute change is detected (420), the security control software can
formulate and send a directive (435) to modify the ACL on the firewall to reflect the new IP
address.
         [0081] Now consider a third TrustZone, TrustZoneC, from which the operator wants to
allow all TCP connections to TrustZoneB. The ZACL for these policies would look like this:
         [0082] TrustZoneA TrustZoneB TCP any deny
         [0083] TrustZoneC TrustZoneB TCP any allow
         [0084] In an example using these TrustZones, consider that, as a result of an architectural
change, Asset1 (currently in TrustZoneA) now needs to be allowed to make any TCP connection
to Asset2 (currently in TrustZoneB). Assets can be moved from TrustZoneA to TrustZoneC.
The system, through it's monitoring of the asset attributes, detects the move (420) and can
formulate a directive to the firewall (435) to remove Asset1's IP address from the deny ACL and
add Asset1's IP address to the allow ACL. This may result in completely changing the firewall
policy for both Asset1 and Asset2, and can be performed automatically, with minimal operator
effort, and without the need to manipulate complex numerical ACLs on the firewall. In this
manner, the configuration settings of the firewall can be modified in response to detecting the
move an asset from one logical zone to another to allow or prevent communication between the
moved asset and another asset or component.
                                                - 22 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
         [0085] Among other things, logical zoning with TrustZones helps maintain, for the
security technical control firewall, the policy and the integrity of the policy when asset attributes
that impact the operation of the firewall are changed for natural, accidental, or malicious reasons.
Additionally, embodiments of the present disclosure are equally effective in reconfiguring the
settings of a firewall when an asset (such as a physical hardware component) physically moves
locations, or is simply reassigned from one logical zone to another without physically moving
the asset. Furthermore, the movement of virtualized assets between the management of one
management element to another management element (e.g., a vMotion event, or migration from
one virtual infrastructure to another) can be tracked, as may the location of physical assets, via
the connections between the security control software and various asset management
components.
         [0086] Embodiments of the present disclosure can move an asset (i.e., change its logical
zone membership) from one TrustZone to another (430) as desired, such as when the asset
attribute VM name changes. In other embodiments, different attributes or combinations of
attributes for the asset, other assets, or any element could be monitored for change and affect the
same TrustZone change behavior for an asset. Accordingly, as illustrated above, the firewall
policy may be maintained or changed (in whole or in part) based on the nature of the attribute
changes detected by the security control software implementing features of the present
disclosure.
         [0087] Embodiments of the present disclosure have significant utility when considering
asset attributes derived from the operation of other security technical controls like a vulnerability
scanner or malware detection. New vulnerabilities and viruses are constantly being discovered,
so the embodiments of the disclosure can help facilitate pre-planning and pre-configuration of
                                                  - 23 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
counter measures for these events by allowing the architect to configure TrustZones with more
limited network access or no network access at all.
         [0088] Referring again to Figure 4, upon detection of a security vulnerability (such as a
virus or other malware, or a defect in hardware or software) on an asset (425), security control
software of the present disclosure could automatically limit or terminate network access by
moving the asset (430) to a predefined TrustZone until other automated security technical
controls update the vulnerability software or remove the virus. Such quarantine could be
automatically removed in response to detecting the asset attribute condition that initiated the
automated movement of the asset being cleared (420), or from the security control software
receiving another indication that the security vulnerability has been addressed. Once the security
vulnerability is addressed, the asset may be automatically moved back to the original TrustZone
and the original network access policies (as expressed in the ZACL) automatically restored.
         [0089] For various compliance frameworks, the security control software of the present
disclosure may perform a logical mapping between the compliance controls in the framework
and various security technical controls (technical controls). Administrative controls may also be
mapped to the compliance controls in the frameworks, through (for example) events that are
generated by the security control software and that indicate the completion of specific operator
interactions with the security control software, that indicate the completion of a workflow (a
process or procedure that must be completed), and/or that meets the administrative control as
defined in the framework. This mapping is referred to as a compliance mapping and, in one
embodiment of the disclosure, is implemented within the Policy and Benchmark Logic and
Heuristics components, and the Policy Database (see Figure 2).
                                                - 24 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
         [0090] Referring again to Figure 1, one or more compliance control policies may be
associated with one or more logical zones and/or assets (440). When the technical controls
required by the compliance control are validated as being place for an asset in a logical zone, the
security control software, using the compliance mapping, may adjust the compliance level for
that compliance control accordingly.
         [0091] For security technical controls, the validation of the application of the security
technical control to any one asset may be performed by the security control software of the
present disclosure based on the logical zoning mechanisms and membership in a TrustZone with
the appropriate policies for the security technical control as described above for firewall. Any
additional security technical controls may be validated as well (e.g. IPS, Vulnerability Scanner,
flow auditing), such as through various interactions with the management elements for various
technical controls.
         [0092] For administrative controls, SCMS events that indicate that a sequence of
operations invoked by the operator within the security control software's user interface have
been completed validate that the administrative control has been satisfied. An example of an
administrative control is the production and sharing of reports. In such an example, the operator
schedules a report and designates a contact list to receive the report. Upon completion of the
scheduling, an event is generated indicating the report is scheduled for delivery, thus satisfying
any administrative control that requires the collaboration or sharing of information contained in
any report available. Alternate embodiments could implement events for any sequence of
interactions (e.g. Configuration Wizards) for any process or procedure and validate any number
of processes and procedures related to the operation and configuration of the security technical
controls, administrative controls, management elements, security elements, network elements,
                                                - 25  -

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
and computing elements in the computing environment, thus providing validation of compliance
controls that are procedural in nature.
         [0093] When adherence to a particular compliance framework is desirable, the operator
can, through the Logical Zone Creation and Configuration components (see Figure 2), select a
compliance framework for any TrustZone or TrustZones. Once a compliance framework setting
is applied to a TrustZone, the policies and configurations of all technical security controls and
performed administrative controls are evaluated within the context of the compliance mapping
for the compliance framework selected.
         [0094] The security control software may analyze one or more modifications to the
firewall configuration settings (445). As each control is configured, the security control
software, using the compliance mapping, generates a compliance level (450) for each compliance
control that is supported by the security technical controls and administrative control sequences.
         [0095] Compliance mappings may combine validated technical controls where
information from one technical control or policy is not sufficient to assure compliance with
compliance controls. For instance, in the above example, the firewall implementation of the
access control, the ACL, is only sufficient to assure the asset is protected by the firewall, when
the asset attribute IP address remains the same as the one configured in the firewall ACL.
Examples above demonstrate that for any asset, the attribute IP address can and will change.
Through the combination of the VIM control that monitors the asset attribute changes for
virtualized information assets (VMs), including asset attribute IP address changes, the
compliance mapping (which combines these controls for this purpose) of the present disclosure
provides more robust assertion of compliance, than conventional methods of monitoring of the
firewall ACLs alone. This specific combination of the VIM control and the firewall can be
                                                - 26 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
generalized to any combination of VIM with any network security technical control that depends
on the asset attribute IP address to function correctly. The combination of different technical and
administrative security controls can be further generalized to improve the assertion of
compliance controls through, for example, the use of logical zoning that allows for the
application and validation of multiple security control policies in a validated manner.
        [0096] As described above, embodiments of the present disclosure may update policies
for firewalls automatically in response to IP address changes, thus maintaining compliance. This
scenario illustrates why evaluating multiple technical controls may sometimes be desirable to
help maintain compliance with compliance frameworks, and demonstrates the advantageous
capabilities of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Although this example of combined
security technical control for compliance mapping utilizes only two security technical controls,
the number of security technical controls and/or events that may be combined for compliance
mapping is not bounded, and combinations of arbitrary numbers may be utilized in embodiments
of the present disclosure. In Figure 5, for example, chart 500 illustrates three technical controls
along the x-axis, with the contributed level of compliance to a compliance control along the y
axis.
        [0097] The application of firewall controls as described above may be validated by the
logical zoning for any asset in a TrustZone with a ZACL listing. For any compliance control that
requires the implementation of network base access controls enforced by a firewall, the security
control software may utilize the instantiated compliance mapping in combination with other
validated security technical controls to calculate the current compliance level for each supported
compliance control. Each security technical control in a combination, as expressed in the
mapping, may contribute a normalized portion of a defined compliance level measurement.
                                                - 27  -

      WO 2016/036485                                                        PCT/US2015/044865
These levels may be represented numerically, such as a level between 0 and 3, and that level
displayed graphically (455) in real time or near-real time as shown in Figure 7. Compliance
levels (such as numerical scores) may be generated for any number of logical zones, assets, or
other hardware and software components (such as the firewall) and may be simultaneously
evaluated against multiple compliance frameworks through alternate compliance mappings.
        [0098] Compliance frameworks are generally configured to protect data, such as
cardholder data in the case of the Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard.
Generally, the number of individual elements in the computing environment that process data
subject to any compliance framework is greater than one and is typically many. The sum total of
all elements or assets that process the data subject to a compliance framework is referred to as
the compliance scope. The compliance level of the computing environment, relevant to any
framework, may only be as high as the level measured on the least compliance asset within the
compliance scope. Logical zoning supports the inclusion of multiple information assets in any
TrustZone. For any TrustZone with a compliance framework set, the security control software
measures the compliance level for all supported compliance controls, for every asset within the
TrustZone. The aggregate TrustZone level of compliance as displayed for any compliance
control is calculated as the lowest measured compliance level for all assets within the TrustZone.
        [0099] Figures 6 and 7 illustrate how an exemplary embodiment of the present
disclosure, using a radial chart format, displays the compliance level for multiple compliance
controls (455). In this example, the chart displays compliance for the PCI DSS 2.0 framework,
but compliance levels may be graphically depicted for any number of different compliance
standards in the same or different graphs.
                                                - 28  -

       WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
         [00100] With the radial chart 700 in Figure 7, the aggregate compliance level for all
compliance controls is displayed for all assets in a TrustZone named "Payment" based on
calculation method described above. For each compliance control, the calculated compliance
level is displayed as a radial element of the radial chart and is identified with the section number
from the compliance framework.
         [00101] Embodiments of the present disclosure may contain multiple compliance
mappings for which the compliance levels for each TrustZone are calculated and displayed based
on the specific and unique compliance framework set for that TrustZone. For example, a
computing environment may contain data subject to multiple compliance frameworks. Among
other things, logical zoning with TrustZones allows for the grouping of assets based on these
compliance frameworks and the reporting of the compliance levels for those specific and distinct
frameworks simultaneously, including the ability to measure compliance levels for an asset
within the context of multiple compliance frameworks through the process of adding that asset to
multiple TrustZones with different compliance framework settings.
         [00102] Figure 8 shows a block diagram of system which may be used in conjunction
with various embodiments. While Figure 8 illustrates various components of a computer system,
it is not intended to represent any particular architecture or manner of interconnecting the
components. Other systems that have fewer or more components may also be used.
         [00103] In Figure 8, the system 800 includes a host computer system 810 comprising a
processor 812, memory 814, and user interface 816. Host computer system 810 may include any
number of different processors, memory components, and user interface components, and may
interact with any other desired systems and devices in conjunction with embodiments of the
present disclosure.
                                                 - 29 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                         PCT/US2015/044865
        [00104] The functionality of the host system 810, including the methods depicted in
Figures 4 and 9, (in whole or in part), may be implemented through the processor 812 executing
computer-readable instructions stored in the memory 814 of the system 810. The memory 814
may store any computer-readable instructions and data, including software applications and
embedded operating code.
        [00105]    The functionality of the host system 810 or other system and devices operating
in conjunction with embodiments of the present disclosure may also be implemented through
various hardware components storing machine-readable instructions, such as application-specific
integrated circuits (ASICs), field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and/or complex
programmable logic devices (CPLDs). Systems according to aspects of certain embodiments
may operate in conjunction with any desired combination of software and/or hardware
components. The processor 812 retrieves and executes instructions stored in the memory 814 to
control the operation of the system 810. Any type of processor, such as an integrated circuit
microprocessor, microcontroller, and/or digital signal processor (DSP), can be used in
conjunction with embodiments of the present disclosure. A memory 814 operating in
conjunction with embodiments of the disclosure may include any combination of different
memory storage devices, such as hard drives, random access memory (RAM), read only memory
(ROM), FLASH memory, or any other type of volatile and/or nonvolatile memory. Data can be
stored in the memory 814 in any desired manner.
        [00106] The host system 810 includes a user interface 816 may include any number of
input devices (not shown) to receive commands, data, and other suitable input from a user, as
well as any number of output devices (not shown) to provides the user with data, notifications,
                                                - 30 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
and other suitable information. Typical I/O devices may include mice, keyboards, modems,
network interfaces, printers, scanners, video cameras and other devices.
         [00107] The host system 810 may communicate with one or more client devices 820 and
other systems and devices in any desired manner, including via network 830. The client device
820 may include any computing device that operates in conjunction with systems and methods of
the present disclosure. The client device 820 may be, or include, a laptop computer, a desktop
computer, a mobile subscriber communication device, a mobile phone, a personal digital
assistant (PDA), a tablet computer, an electronic book or book reader, a digital camera, a video
camera, a video game console, and/or any other suitable computing device.
         [00108] The network 8300 may include any electronic communications system or
method. Communication among components operating in conjunction with embodiments of the
present disclosure may be performed using any suitable communication method, such as, for
example, a telephone network, an extranet, an intranet, the Internet, point of interaction device
(point of sale device, personal digital assistant (e.g., iPhone@, Palm Pilot@, Blackberry@),
cellular phone, kiosk, etc.), online communications, satellite communications, off-line
communications, wireless communications, transponder communications, local area network
(LAN), wide area network (WAN), virtual private network (VPN), networked or linked devices,
keyboard, mouse and/or any suitable communication or data input modality. Systems and
devices of the present disclosure may utilize TCP/IP communications protocols as well as IPX,
Appletalk, IP-6, NetBIOS, OSI, any tunneling protocol (e.g. IPsec, SSH), or any number of
existing or future protocols.
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NETWORK FLOW ANALYSIS AND REPORTING
                                                 - 31 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
        [00109] Many conventional systems for network monitoring, network control, and
network security typically use network flow data from from routers, switches, or other hardware
configured to collect network traffic statistics using a standard known as "IP Flow Information
Export" (IPFIX), which is also known as "Netflow." IPFIX allows for the monitoring (e.g.,
auditing) of network exchanges between assets and, to some degree, qualifies information
exchanges based on network connection attributes, such as IP address, source and destination
port numbers, as well as byte count and other packet or connection attributes defined in the
IPFIX protocol and implemented by the IPFIX sending device or software. However,
conventional systems may not be capable of contextualizing the network connections represented
with IPFIX with data from other sources, such as data from an intrusion detection system (IDS),
intrusion prevention system (IPS), vulnerability scan data, configuration data, anti-virus/anti
malware data, policies applied to security technical controls, operating system configuration
data, application configuration data, processes running on the asset (application or operating
system processes), process initiating user identification, binary digital signatures, and/or data
from firewalls.
        [00110] Additionally, conventional systems may not be able to correlate and provide
contexts and causal or resultant relationships between these data elements and the actions
performed in the computing environment by their perspective generating components.
Embodiments of the present disclosure, by contrast, can collect and analyze asset and network
data from multiple sources, and use such data to present a more complete and accurate
representation of security posture and security relevant phenomena compared to conventional
systems by, for example, supporting and performing complex combinatoric analyses for the
                                                 - 32 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
correlation of events, network connections, asset operational states, and the states of security
technical controls.
         [00111] Figure 9 depicts an exemplary process according to various embodiments of the
present disclosure. Any combination and/or subset of the elements of the method in Figure 9
may be practiced in any suitable order and in conjunction with any suitable system, device,
and/or process, including the process shown in Figure 4 and the system shown in Figure 8. In
Figure 9, method 900 includes collecting data (e.g., asset and/or network data) from different
sources (905), filtering the data (910), identifying one or more events and assets associated with
such events from the data (915), identifying connections between assets and characteristics
thereof from the data (920), and generating (925) and presenting (930) a flow information graph.
Method 900 further includes receiving a selection of a component in the flow information graph
(935), displaying additional information in response to the selection (940), receiving edits to
network traffic rules (945) and applying such rules to the network (950). Method 900
additionally includes collecting updated data (955) and updating the flow information graph with
the updated data (960). Method 900 also includes storing data (965), analyzing data (970),
generating one or more alerts (975), generating one or more reports (980), and exporting data
(985).
         [00112] Embodiments of the present disclosure may collect data (905) from any number
of different sources and/or different types of sources, including data regarding asset, network
events, and system operation attributes. Such collected data may include, for example, network
flow attributes, information on a user of an asset, information regarding an asset as well as
hardware and/or virtual components associated with an asset, information on software
applications, attributes of different network nodes, security vulnerabilities, attributes of a
                                                 - 33 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
network of assets, information on the content of data packets, as well as any other desired
information. In one example, a system implementing method 900 may collect network flow data
(e.g., information pertaining to message exchanges and attempted message exchanges) between
virtual and physical assets in a network from hardware components (such as routers and switches
or their virtual analogues) collecting "Netflow" data. Additionally or alternatively, data may be
collected from one or more other sources, such as an intrusion detection system (IDS), an
intrusion prevention system (IPS), and/or a firewall. Data that is collected may also include
security technical control configuration attributes or policies defining allowed and blocked traffic
between specific assets, groups of assets, and/or logical zones. In some embodiments, a list of
allowed and blocked traffic may be defined for various logical zones, and may be referred to
herein as a "zone access control list" (ZACL).
         [00113] Data may be received or collected (905) in any suitable manner, such as by
polling and/or receiving data streams (as in IPFIX streams, system logs, APIs, etc.). Data can be
collected from multiple sources, normalized and combined into a list of records for the purpose
of associating all "attributes" with network flow data, thus allowing the embodiments of the
disclosure to create and present correlations in various methods including graphs as described
further herein.
         [00114] Data collected from different sources may be filtered (910) in a variety of ways.
For example, data from different sources may be used to populate a data structure, with data that
is redundant to data from another source removed so as to produce a data structure with unique
network flow attributes and characteristics collected from the different sources. Vulnerability
data received from a scan can be associated (e.g, through the normalization and correlation
processes described herein) with a specific network flow, thereby allowing the user of a system
                                                - 34 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                            PCT/US2015/044865
to identify relationships between various asset operational states and network connections from
or to the asset or a plurality of assets. The collected data may also be filtered according to user
preference. For example, user may be interested in a particular network event (such as a security
breach) and thus the system implementing method 900 may automatically (or in response to
specific user input) filter out data unrelated to a specific breached asset or compromised
application service running on one or more assets.
         [00115] Embodiments of the present application can identify various network traffic
events, and network assets related to such events, based on the collected data (910). An event
may include, for example, the exchange of data packets between two assets in a network, an
attempted or actual security breach, a software update, a failure (e.g., hardware and/or software)
associated with an asset, as well as other events. An event may be defined over one or more
periods of time, and embodiments of the present disclosure may operate on data received in real
time (or near-real-time) or on data previously recorded and stored. For example, a user of a
financial network may wish to review network traffic between four specific network assets
recorded over a three-hour period to investigate a possible wire fraud attempt. In this example, a
system implementing the present disclosure may retrieve the network data for the defined time
period, filter out data unrelated to the four assets or the three-hour window, and automatically
identify events and assets associated with the potential fraud.
         [00116] Embodiments of the present disclosure are likewise able to identify various
connections between assets (920), as well as characteristics of such connections and assets. For
example, data collected by the system (905) may be used to identify: data regarding one or more
assets, data regarding one or more network events, and/or data regarding one or more system
operational attributes. The characteristics of assets and/or the connections between assets may
                                                 - 35  -

      WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
be defined or limited based on the filtering of the collected data (910). Characteristics of
connections between assets may include, for example, the size of data communicated, times
when data is communicated, the source(s) and destination(s) of data, the rate at which data is
communicated, and other characteristics.
         [00117] In exemplary method 900, a flow information graph is generated (925) to
visually show various network assets and the connections between such assets. The flow
information graph is then presented (930) to a user, such as via a user interface display of a client
device operated by the user (e.g., client device 820 in Figure 8). Figure 10 illustrates an example
of a flow information graph. In this example, network traffic between multiple TrustZone assets
is shown via selectable directional flow lines. The flow information graph depicts network
traffic that is allowed between network assets (i.e., via the solid flow lines) and traffic that is
blocked (i.e, via the dashed flow lines). Additionally, each flow line is labeled to indicate the
type of the source of the data used to identify the connection (i.e., "Netflow," "IDS Flow," "IPS
Flow," "ZACL Allowed," and "ZACL Denied").
         [00118] A selection of a component (e.g, a network asset or connection between assets)
may be received (935) from a user. For example, in a case where the flow information graph is
presented on a display screen of client device 820 controlled by a user, the user can select (e.g.,
using a mouse) a flow line to perform various actions. For example, selection of the flow line
may display additional information associated with the connection (940), such as by presenting
the user with characteristics (e.g., identified in step 920) of the connection associated with the
flow line. Selection of the flow line may also allow the user to view and edit (945) rules for
allowing and blocking traffic over the connection. Rules edited in this manner can then be
applied to the connection (950).
                                                  - 36 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
         [00119] The flow information graph may be presented in conjunction with network flow
information, rules, and other data, in a table format, an example of which is depicted in Figure
11. Among other things, the table in Figure 11 allows a user to search and/or filter the data in the
table using different fields (such as based on timestamp, source asset name, or other attribute)
and to create and edit rules by, for example, double-clicking an entry on the table.
         [00120] Figure 12 illustrates an exemplary screenshot showing a ZACL rule description
field that may be presented in a data table (such as the data table in Figure 11) as well as in
response to selection of a component in the flow information graph by a user. As shown, the
"description field entry dialogue" can be used by a user to edit a rule to be applied to a
connection between assets.
         [00121] Figure 13 illustrates another exemplary screenshot showing ZACL rules being
triggered. In this example, events where traffic is allowed by a ZACL rule cause the rule to be
highlighted in green, while events where traffic is blocked cause the ZACL rule to be highlighted
in red. Other visual indicators for showing allowed/blocked traffic may also be used.
         [00122] Figures 14 and 15 illustrate the creation of network objects (Figure 14) and the
use of network object in ZACL rules (Figure 15). Figure 16 illustrates a ZACL rule having
multiple sources and destinations.
         [00123] Figure 17 illustrates blocked and allowed traffic via solid and dashed lines
(respectively) on the flow information graph, as well as a pulldown on a data table associated
with the flow information graph allowing the user to select "ZACL logging." Selection or de
selection of logging within a ZACL rule allows a user to include or remove (respectively) rule
hits from the rule on the flow information graph.
                                                 - 37 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                            PCT/US2015/044865
         [00124] Figure 18 illustrates a "purge flows" feature of an exemplary embodiment,
whereby specific flows may be selected and removed from the flow information graph, thereby
allowing a user to focus more precisely on a desired set of connections.
         [00125] Figure 19 illustrates the filtering of flows before they are displayed on the flow
information graph (Figure 10) or data table (Figure 11). This further assists a user in selecting
the specific flows of interest to the user.
         [00126] As described above, the flow information graph can depict a variety of different
information regarding network assets and network connections between such assets. Figures 20
22 illustrate examples of flow information graphs that identify characteristics of connections
between network assets and/or characteristics of assets. Identification of such characteristics
may occur in response to selection of an attribute or other user input from a user via a user
interface and/or based on automatic selection of characteristics by systems implementing the
embodiments of the present disclosure.
         [00127] Figure 20 illustrates an exemplary flow information graph where a user has
selected "flow data" from among a list of attributes in a set of collected data. In this example,
the "flow data" icon on the left of the screen is highlighted, and bolded flow lines are drawn
between each of the five network assets (i.e., TrustZones in this example) to show their
respective connectivity based on the selected "flow data" attributes. In addition to bolding and
highlighting, characteristics of assets and network connections may be visually indicated in a
flow information graph using various combinations of text, fonts, icons, shading, and the like.
         [00128] Any number of different attributes may be used to visually depict information
regarding network connections and assets in a flow information graph. In Figure 21, for
example, A particular vulnerability from the "vulnerability data" menu on the left of the screen is
                                                  - 38 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                         PCT/US2015/044865
selected. Here, the system has identified an asset in the flow information graph (i.e., the
"TrustZone PCI App 1 Web" asset) as being associated with the vulnerability (e.g., having the
vulnerability due to out-of-date software) to be highlighted. Additionally, a user identifier
("bobjones") from the "machine data" attribute menu is also selected, and the connection
between the "TrustZone PCI App I Users" asset and the "TrustZone PCI App I Web" asset is
identified by the system as being associated with the selected user identifier and highlighted on
the flow information graph accordingly. Figure 22 depicts the appearance of the flow
information graph in response to de-selection of the "machine data" attribute from Figure 21,
leaving only the "TrustZone PCI App I Web" asset highlighted to correspond to the selected
security vulnerability.
         [00129] Figures 23 and 24 depict additional examples of information that may be
depicted by flow information graphs. In Figure 23, both the "vulnerability data" and "flow data"
attributes are selected, as shown by their respective highlighting. At the top of the graph,
information on three assets in the network is displayed, while the graph shows network data
associated with the assets in the form of "incoming" flow data on the left of the graph and
"outgoing" flow data on the right of the graph. System operational attributes are additionally
shown in the middle of the graph. Figure 24 illustrates the flow information graph of Figure 23
without the "flow data" attribute being selected.
         [00130] Updated data may be collected (955) on a periodic or real-time/near-real-time
basis. The flow information graph displayed to a user may likewise be updated (960) and
presented to show changes to assets and/or connections on a periodic or real-time/near-real-time
basis.
                                                - 39 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
         [00131] Embodiments of the application may store (965) and analyze (970) the collected
data, data related to the generation and/or presentation of the flow information graph, and other
information. For example, the system implementing method 900 may store data collected and
used to generate a flow information graph, as well as a snapshot of a particular flow information
graph at a particular point of time or during a particular time period, thus enabling a user to
retrieve a desired graph without having to re-create it from scratch. Any desired data may be
analyzed for a variety of purposes. For example, the collected data may be analyzed (e.g.,
comparing it to a security policy, standards compliance policy, and/or a performance standard)
and generating one or more alerts (975) based on the analysis.
         [00132] Various reports may also be generated (980) and presented to users of the
system and/or third parties. A report may be included in an electronic document, and may
provide a summary of state, status, and/or history of some aspect of a network, TrustZones,
and/or individual assets. In one exemplary embodiment, a report may be created that details the
compliance state of all the assets in a TrustZone at the time the report is run. In another
example, a report may be created to detail the detected vulnerabilities of all assets in a TrustZone
or a particular asset. Reports may also be generated to provide a summary of information at a
particular point in time (e.g., a "snapshot") or a summary of information over a period of time
(e.g., showing trends in data) for TrustZones and/or assets. Exemplary embodiments may also
generate a report that details the Zone Access Control List (ZACL), and all assets with their asset
IP address(es) and TrustZone membership.
         [00133] Method 900 further includes exporting information (985) to a third party. Any
such information may be exported, such as the collected data, the flow information graph, and
other information, thereby allowing the third party to perform its own analysis and processing of
                                                 -40-

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
such data. Data may be exported to a third party in any desired manner, such as via an
application program interface (API), through a real-time or near-real-time data stream, or via any
other desired interface.
        [00134] The functionality of various embodiments may be performed via a web browser
and/or application interfacing utilizing a web browser. Such browser applications may comprise
Internet browsing software installed within a computing unit or a system to perform various
functions. These computing units or systems may take the form of a computer or set of
computers, and any type of computing device or systems may be used, including laptops,
notebooks, tablets, hand held computers, personal digital assistants, set-top boxes, workstations,
computer-servers, main frame computers, mini-computers, PC servers, pervasive computers,
network sets of computers, personal computers and tablet computers, such as iPads, iMACs, and
MacBooks, kiosks, terminals, point of sale (POS) devices and/or terminals, televisions, or any
other device capable of receiving data over a network. Various embodiments may utilize
Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, Apple Safari, or any other of the
myriad software packages available for browsing the internet.
        [00135] Various embodiments may operate in conjunction with any suitable operating
system (e.g., Windows NT, 95/98/2000/CE/Mobile, OS2, UNIX, Linux, Solaris, MacOS,
PalmOS, etc.) as well as various conventional support software and drivers typically associated
with computers. Various embodiments may include any suitable personal computer, network
computer, workstation, personal digital assistant, cellular phone, smart phone, minicomputer,
mainframe or the like. Embodiments may implement security protocols, such as Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL), Transport Layer Security (TLS), and Secure Shell (SSH). Embodiments may
implement any desired application layer protocol, including http, https, ftp, and sftp.
                                               -41 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                           PCT/US2015/044865
         [00136] Various components, modules, and/or engines may be implemented as micro
applications or micro-apps. Micro-apps are typically deployed in the context of a mobile
operating system, including for example, a Palm mobile operating system, a Windows mobile
operating system, an Android Operating System, Apple iOS, a Blackberry operating system and
the like. The micro-app may be configured to leverage the resources of the larger operating
system and associated hardware via a set of predetermined rules which govern the operations of
various operating systems and hardware resources. For example, where a micro-app desires to
communicate with a device or network other than the mobile device or mobile operating system,
the micro-app may leverage the communication protocol of the operating system and associated
device hardware under the predetermined rules of the mobile operating system. Moreover,
where the micro-app desires an input from a user, the micro-app may be configured to request a
response from the operating system which monitors various hardware components and then
communicates a detected input from the hardware to the micro-app.
         [00137] As used herein, the term "network" includes any cloud, cloud computing system
or electronic communications system or method which incorporates hardware and/or software
components. Communication among the parties may be accomplished through any suitable
communication channels, such as, for example, a telephone network, an extranet, an intranet, the
Internet, point of interaction device (point of sale device, personal digital assistant (e.g.,
iPhone@, Palm Pilot@, Blackberry), cellular phone, kiosk, etc.), online communications,
satellite communications, off-line communications, wireless communications, transponder
communications, local area network (LAN), wide area network (WAN), virtual private network
(VPN), networked or linked devices, keyboard, mouse and/or any suitable communication or
data input modality. Systems may utilize TCP/IP communications protocols as well as IPX,
                                                 - 42 -

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
Appletalk, IP-6, NetBIOS, OSI, any tunneling protocol (e.g. IPsec, SSH), or any number of
existing or future protocols. Specific information related to the protocols, standards, and
application software utilized in connection with the Internet is generally known to those skilled
in the art and, as such, need not be detailed herein.
         [00138] The various system components may be independently, separately or
collectively suitably coupled to the network via data links which includes, for example, a
connection to an Internet Service Provider (ISP) over the local loop as is typically used in
connection with standard modem communication, cable modem, satellite networks, ISDN,
Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), or various wireless communication methods. It is noted that the
network may be implemented as other types of networks, such as an interactive television (ITV)
network.
         [00139] The system may be partially or fully implemented using cloud computing.
"Cloud" or "Cloud computing" includes a model for enabling convenient, on-demand network
access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage,
applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal
management effort or service provider interaction. Cloud computing may include location
independent computing, whereby shared servers provide resources, software, and data to
computers and other devices on demand.
         [00140] Various embodiments may be used in conjunction with web services, utility
computing, pervasive and individualized computing, security and identity solutions, autonomic
computing, cloud computing, commodity computing, mobility and wireless solutions, open
source, biometrics, grid computing and/or mesh computing.
                                                -43-

     WO 2016/036485                                                              PCT/US2015/044865
         [00141] Any databases discussed herein may include relational, hierarchical, graphical,
or object-oriented structure and/or any other database configurations. Moreover, the databases
may be organized in any suitable manner, for example, as data tables or lookup tables. Each
record may be a single file, a series of files, a linked series of data fields or any other data
structure. Association of certain data may be accomplished through any desired data association
technique such as those known or practiced in the art. For example, the association may be
accomplished either manually or automatically.
         [00142] Any databases, systems, devices, servers or other components of the system may
consist of any combination thereof at a single location or at multiple locations, wherein each
database or system includes any of various suitable security features, such as firewalls, access
codes, encryption, decryption, compression, decompression, and/or the like.
         [00143] Encryption may be performed by way of any of the techniques now available in
the art or which may become available-e.g., Twofish, RSA, El Gamal, Schorr signature, DSA,
PGP, PKI, and symmetric and asymmetric cryptosystems.
         [00144] Embodiments may connect to the Internet or an intranet using standard dial-up,
cable, DSL or any other Internet protocol known in the art. Transactions may pass through a
firewall in order to prevent unauthorized access from users of other networks.
         [00145] The computers discussed herein may provide a suitable website or other
Internet-based graphical user interface which is accessible by users. For example, the Microsoft
Internet Information Server (IIS), Microsoft Transaction Server (MTS), and Microsoft SQL
Server, may be used in conjunction with the Microsoft operating system, Microsoft NT web
server software, a Microsoft SQL Server database system, and a Microsoft Commerce Server.
Additionally, components such as Access or Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, Sybase, Informix
                                                  - 44 -

      WO 2016/036485                                                             PCT/US2015/044865
MySQL, Interbase, etc., may be used to provide an Active Data Object (ADO) compliant
database management system. In another example, an Apache web server can be used in
conjunction with a Linux operating system, a MySQL database, and the Perl, PHP, and/or
Python programming languages.
         [00146] Any of the communications, inputs, storage, databases or displays discussed
herein may be facilitated through a website having web pages. The term "web page" as it is used
herein is not meant to limit the type of documents and applications that might be used to interact
with the user. For example, a typical website might include, in addition to standard HTML
documents, various forms, Java applets, JavaScript, active server pages (ASP), common gateway
interface scripts (CGI), extensible markup language (XML), dynamic HTML, cascading style
sheets (CSS), AJAX (Asynchronous Javascript And XML), helper applications, plug-ins, and the
like. A server may include a web service that receives a request from a web server, the request
including a URL and an IP address. The web server retrieves the appropriate web pages and
sends the data or applications for the web pages to the IP address. Web services are applications
that are capable of interacting with other applications over a communications means, such as the
Internet.
         [00147] Various embodiments may employ any desired number of methods for
displaying data within a browser-based document. For example, data may be represented as
standard text or within a fixed list, scrollable list, drop-down list, editable text field, fixed text
field, pop-up window, and the like. Likewise, embodiments may utilize any desired number of
methods for modifying data in a web page such as, for example, free text entry using a keyboard,
selection of menu items, check boxes, option boxes, and the like.
                                                  - 45  -

      WO 2016/036485                                                         PCT/US2015/044865
        [00148] The exemplary systems and methods illustrated herein may be described in
terms of functional block components, screen shots, optional selections and various processing
steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of
hardware and/or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For
example, the system may employ various integrated circuit components, e.g., memory elements,
processing elements, logic elements, look-up tables, and the like, which may carry out a variety
of functions under the control of one or more microprocessors or other control devices.
Similarly, the software elements of the system may be implemented with any programming or
scripting language such as C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, VBScript, Macromedia Cold Fusion,
COBOL, Microsoft Active Server Pages, assembly, PERL, PHP, awk, Python, Visual Basic,
SQL Stored Procedures, PL/SQL, any UNIX shell script, and extensible markup language
(XML) with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures,
objects, processes, routines or other programming elements. Further, it should be noted that the
system may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission, signaling, data
processing, network control, and the like. Still further, the system could be used to detect or
prevent security issues with a client-side scripting language, such as JavaScript, VBScript or the
like.
        [00149] As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art, the system may be
embodied as a customization of an existing system, an add-on product, a processing apparatus
executing upgraded software, a stand alone system, a distributed system, a method, a data
processing system, a device for data processing, and/or a computer program product.
Accordingly, any portion of the system or a module may take the form of a processing apparatus
executing code, an internet based embodiment, an entirely hardware embodiment, or an
                                                -46-

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
embodiment combining aspects of the internet, software and hardware. Furthermore, the system
may take the form of a computer program product on a computer-readable storage medium
having computer-readable program code means embodied in the storage medium. Any suitable
computer-readable storage medium may be utilized, including hard disks, CD-ROM, optical
storage devices, magnetic storage devices, and/or the like.
         [00150] The system and method is described herein with reference to screen shots, block
diagrams and flowchart illustrations of methods, apparatus (e.g., systems), and computer
program products according to various embodiments. It will be understood that each functional
block of the block diagrams and the flowchart illustrations, and combinations of functional
blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations, respectively, can be implemented by
computer program instructions.
         [00151] These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose
computer, special purpose computer, or other programmable data processing apparatus to
produce a machine, such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other
programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions specified
in the flowchart block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a
computer-readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing
apparatus to function in a particular manner, such that the instructions stored in the computer
readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which
implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program
instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing
apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other
programmable apparatus to produce a computer-implemented process such that the instructions
                                               - 47  -

      WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing
the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.
         [00152] Accordingly, functional blocks of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations
support combinations of means for performing the specified functions, combinations of steps for
performing the specified functions, and program instruction means for performing the specified
functions. It will also be understood that each functional block of the block diagrams and
flowchart illustrations, and combinations of functional blocks in the block diagrams and
flowchart illustrations, can be implemented by either special purpose hardware-based computer
systems which perform the specified functions or steps, or suitable combinations of special
purpose hardware and computer instructions. Further, illustrations of the process flows and the
descriptions thereof may make reference to user windows, webpages, websites, web forms,
prompts, etc. Practitioners will appreciate that the illustrated steps described herein may
comprise in any number of configurations including the use of windows, webpages, web forms,
popup windows, prompts and the like. It should be further appreciated that the multiple steps as
illustrated and described may be combined into single webpages and/or windows but have been
expanded for the sake of simplicity. In other cases, steps illustrated and described as single
process steps may be separated into multiple webpages and/or windows but have been combined
for simplicity.
         [00153] The term "non-transitory" is to be understood to remove only propagating
transitory signals per se from the claim scope and does not relinquish rights to all standard
computer-readable media that are not only propagating transitory signals per se. Stated another
way, the meaning of the term "non-transitory computer-readable medium" should be construed
                                               -48-

     WO 2016/036485                                                          PCT/US2015/044865
to exclude only those types of transitory computer-readable media which were found in In Re
Nuijten to fall outside the scope of patentable subject matter under 35 U.S.C.  101.
        [00154] Benefits, other advantages, and solutions to problems have been described
herein with regard to specific embodiments. However, the benefits, advantages, solutions to
problems, and any elements that may cause any benefit, advantage, or solution to occur or
become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical, required, or essential features or
elements of the disclosure.
        [00155] Although the disclosure includes a method, it is contemplated that it may be
embodied as computer program instructions on a tangible computer-readable carrier, such as a
magnetic or optical memory or a magnetic or optical disk. All structural, chemical, and
functional equivalents to the elements of the above-described exemplary embodiments that are
known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are
intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover, it is not necessary for a device or
method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present disclosure, for it to
be encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore, no element, component, or method step in
the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element,
component, or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element herein is to be
construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112, sixth paragraph, unless the element is expressly
recited using the phrase "means for." As used herein, the terms "comprises", "comprising", or
any other variation thereof, are intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a process,
method, article, or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those
elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process,
method, article, or apparatus.
                                                -49-

     WO 2016/036485                                                         PCT/US2015/044865
        [00156] Where a phrase similar to "at least one of A, B, or C," "at least one of A, B, and
C," "one or more A, B, or C," or "one or more of A, B, and C" is used, it is intended that the
phrase be interpreted to mean that A alone may be present in an embodiment, B alone may be
present in an embodiment, C alone may be present in an embodiment, or that any combination of
the elements A, B and C may be present in a single embodiment; for example, A and B, A and C,
B and C, or A and B and C.
        [00157] Changes and modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without
departing from the scope of the present disclosure. These and other changes or modifications are
intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure, as expressed in the following
claims.
                                              - 50  -

What is claimed is:
1.       A computer-implemented method comprising:
         collecting, by a computer system, data from a plurality of different types of sources,
wherein the collected data includes network data and asset data;
         identifying, by the computer system based on the network data in the collected data, a
network traffic event and a plurality of network assets related to the network traffic event;
         identifying, by the computer system based on the asset data in the collected data,
connections between the plurality of network assets;
         generating, by the computer system, a flow information graph that depicts the plurality of
network assets and the connections between the plurality of network assets, wherein the flow
information graph depicts network traffic that is allowed between network assets and network
traffic that is blocked between network assets; and
         presenting the flow information graph via a display of a user interface in communication
with the computer system.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the collected data is obtained from a source selected
from the group consisting of: a router, a switch, a firewall, an intrusion detection system, an
intrusion protection system, and combinations thereof.
3.       The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering out duplicate information from the
collected data.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of: a characteristic of a connection between
network assets and a characteristic of a network asset is identified based at least partially on an
attribute selected from the collected data.
5.       The method of claim 4, wherein the attribute is selected by a user via the user interface.
6.       The method of claim 4, wherein the attribute is automatically selected by the computer
system.
                                                 51

7.      The method of claim 4, wherein the one or more of the characteristic of a connection
between network assets and the characteristic of a network asset is visually indicated in the flow
information graph.
8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the flow information graph depicts connections between
the network assets using selectable directional flow lines.
9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the flow lines indicate a type of the source of the
collected data used to identify the connection.
10.     The method of claim 8, further comprising:
        identifying characteristics of the connections between the network assets; and
        in response to selection, by a user via the user interface, of a respective flow line
associated with a connection from the plurality of connections, displaying the characteristics of
the selected connection.
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein displaying the characteristics of the selected connection
includes displaying rules for allowing and blocking traffic over the selected connection.
12.     The method of claim 11, further comprising:
        receiving edits, from the user via the user interface, to the displayed rules for allowing
and blocking traffic over the selected connection; and
        applying the edited rules to the selected connection.
13.     The method of claim 1, wherein generating the flow information graph includes:
        identifying an asset associated with a type of security vulnerability; and
        visually indicating the identified asset is associated with the security vulnerability in the
flow information graph.
                                                   52

14.      The method of claim 1, wherein the flow information graph depicts information on an
asset and one or more of: network data associated with the asset, and a system operational
attribute associated with the asset.
15.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         collecting updated data;
         updating the flow information graph based on the updated data; and
         presenting the updated flow information graph via the display of the user interface.
16.      The method of claim 1, further comprising storing data related to the flow information
graph in response to user input via the user interface.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the data related to the flow information graph includes
one or more of: the collected data used to generate the flow information graph, and the flow
information graph itself.
18.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         analyzing the collected data; and
         generating an alert in response to the analysis of the collected data.
19.      The method of claim 18, wherein analyzing the collected data includes comparing the
collected data to one or more of: a security policy, a standards compliance policy, and a
performance standard.
20.      The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a report based on the collected
data.
21.      The method of claim 1, further comprising exporting at least a portion of the collected
data to a third party via a data stream.
                                                  53

22.     A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when
executed, cause a computer system to:
        collect data from a plurality of different types of sources, wherein the collected data
includes network data and asset data;
        identify, based on the network data in the collected data, a network traffic event and a
plurality of network assets related to the network traffic event;
        identify, based on the asset data in the collected data, connections between the plurality
of network assets;
        generate a flow information graph that depicts the plurality of network assets and the
connections between the plurality of network assets, wherein the flow information graph depicts
network traffic that is allowed between network assets and network traffic that is blocked
between network assets; and
        present the flow information graph via a display of a user interface in communication
with the computer system.
23.     A computer system comprising:
        a processor; and
        memory in communication with the processor and storing instructions that, when
executed by the processor, cause the computer system to:
                collect data from a plurality of different types of sources, wherein the collected
data includes network data and asset data;
                identify, based on the network data in the collected data, a network traffic event
and a plurality of network assets related to the network traffic event;
                identify, based on the asset data in the collected data, connections between the
plurality of network assets;
                generate a flow information graph that depicts the plurality of network assets and
the connections between the plurality of network assets, wherein the flow information graph
depicts network traffic that is allowed between network assets and network traffic that is blocked
between network assets; and
                present the flow information graph via a display of a user interface in
communication with the computer system.
                                                   54

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
