                                       ABSTRACT
        The invention relates to integrated electrode separators (IES), and their use in
lithium ion batteries as replacements for free standing separators. The IES results
from coating an electrode with a fluoropolymer aqueous-based emulsion or
suspension, and drying the coating to produce a tough, porous separator layer on the
electrodes. The aqueous fluoropolymer coating may optionally contain dispersed
inorganic particles and other additives to improve electrode performance such as
higher ionic conduction or higher temperature use. The IES provides several
advantages, including a thinner, more uniform separator layer, and the elimination of
a separate battery component (separator membrane) for a simpler and cost-saving
manufacturing process. The aqueous separator coating can be used in combination
with a solvent cast electrode as well as an aqueous cast electrode either in two
separate process steps, or in a one-step process.

              INTEGRATED ELECTRODE SEPARATOR ASSEMBLIES FOR
                                  LITHIUM ION BATTERIES
   RELATED APPLICATION
 5         The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2013337752, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The invention relates to integrated electrode separators (IES), and their use in
10 lithium ion batteries as replacements for free standing membrane separators. The IES
   results from coating an electrode with a fluoropolymer aqueous-based emulsion or
   suspension, and drying the coating to produce a tough, porous separator layer on the
   electrodes. The aqueous fluoropolymer coating may optionally contain dispersed
   inorganic particles and other additives to improve electrode performance such as
15 higher use temperature or higher ionic conductivity. The IES provides several
   advantages, including a thinner, more uniform separator layer, and the elimination of
   a separate battery component (separator membrane) for a simpler and cost-saving
   manufacturing process. The aqueous separator coating can be used in combination
   with a solvent cast electrode as well as an aqueous cast electrode either in two
20 separate process steps, or in a one-step process.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Lithium batteries, including lithium metal batteries, lithium ion batteries,
   lithium polymer batteries, and lithium ion polymer batteries are finding increased
   usage due to drive voltages and higher energy densities than those of conventional
25 batteries using aqueous electrolytes (such as Ni-MH batteries).
           Lithium ion batteries and lithium ion polymer batteries consist of a cathode
   stack, an anode stack, and a separator in between the anode and cathode. The function
   of the battery separator is to prevent electrical contact between the positive and
   negative electrodes while at the same time allowing rapid transport of ionic charge
30 carriers that are needed to complete the circuit for the passage of current. The most
   common type of separator used in lithium ion batteries is microporous polyolefin
   membrane. Unfortunately, polyolefin membrane separators have several drawbacks.

   They are not wettable by conventional electrolytes used in battery, resulting in islands
   on the separator, which are not properly wetted. A greater drawback is the shrinkage
   or melting of polyolefin separators caused when battery temperatures approach the
   softening point of those polyolefin materials (about 1300 C or less), creating the
 5 possibility of short-circuits inside the battery that can result in fire and explosion.
   Finally, the freestanding separator in conventional cell constructions is the second
   greatest percent cost contributor for cell materials, at 14% of cell cost, (Ref:
   Takeshita, H, LIB-related Study Program 08-09.
          An excellent alternative to polyolefins for separators is polyvinylidene fluoride
10 (PVDF), which has wetting and high temperature resistance properties that surpass
   those of polyolefins. US 7,662,517 describes coating a PVDF/inorganic material
   layer onto a polyolefin separator to improve dimensional stability at elevated
   temperatures, wettability, and flexibility. Although these new separators are more
   resilient, it is not possible to prevent separator shrinkage at elevated temperature since
15 a polyolefin-based separator, is still present as a substrate.
          Microporous membranes have been fabricated from PVDF resin, as described in
   US Patent 8147732. However, the porosity of these PVDF membranes is low
   compared to polyolefins and the cost is high, especially since fabrications of thin,
   defect-free membranes has proven to be difficult, requiring the use of thicker
20 membranes with higher materials costs.
           It is desirable to find an alternative to existing freestanding separators that also
   maintain or improve the safety and performance of current designs.
           US 20100330268 describes producing separators for lithium ion batteries by
   coating electrodes with silica gel particles dispersed in a polymeric matrix (such as
25 PVDF). This process uses organic solvent to form a polymer solution for coating the
   electrodes. These solution coatings dry to a non-porous layer. The current is
   transported through the silica domains, which may or may not form a continuous
   network. Also, formation of the electode layer and the separator layer must be carried
   out in separate steps.
30         US 2011/0217585 describes an integrated composite separator in which a
   ceramic polymer slurry is directly sprayed or coated onto an electrode. The ceramic
   layers on each electrode are separated by a polymer layer that can be a polyvinylidene
   fluoride homopolymer or copolymer. The polymer is dissolved in an organic solvent,
   and the solution would form a solid, non-porous film; and therefore the polymer

   solution must be applied either as spun fibers or coated lines to provide spaces
   between the polymer for the passage of electrolyte and Li ions. Aqueous polymer
   dispersions are not mentioned.
            Aqueous fluoropolymer dispersions for use in lithium ion battery electrode
 5 coatings are described in US patent applications 20100304270, and 20120015246 to
   Arkema Inc., and aqueous fluoropolymer dispersions for sepatators are described in
   US 61/601278. Unlike polymer solvent solutions, the aqueous coatings contain
   polymer particles that can be dried to adhere at the contact points, forming a porous,
   continuous, web-like membrane rather than a continuous film.
10          It has now been found that intergrated electrode separator assemblies can be
   produced by coating fluoropolymer aqueous dispersions directly onto electrode
   stacks, then drying the coated electrodes to produce a porous fluoropolymer separator
   membrane adhered to the exterior of the electrode. These fluoropolymer integrated
   electrode separator assemblies provide several advantages, including (1) reducing the
15 cost associated with the separator by 60-65% or more by using waterborne
   fluoropolymers slurries as replacements for free-standing polymeric membranes, (2)
   eliminating the use of hazardous solvents in electrode slurries through the use of
   waterborne fluoropolymers, (3) simplifing the manufacturing process by utilizing
   integrated electrode separator (IES) construction and (4) improves the performance
20 and safety of the batteries compared to those manufactured using existing technology.
            A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior
   art, is not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or
   that the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the
   priority date of any of the claims.
25 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided an integrated
   electrode separator assembly comprising at least one anode electrode, and at least one
   cathode electrode, separated by at least one porous fluoropolymer separator coating
   layer, said separator coating layer, with no separate separator membrane being
30 directly adhered to at least one electrode porous fluoropolymer separator coating layer
   comprises interconnected fluoropolymer particles having an average article size of
   less than 500 nm.

           The invention also relates to integrated electrode separator assembly as part of
   a battery, capacitor, electric double layer capacitor, membrane electrode assembly or
   fuel cell.
           According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
 5 process for forming an integrated electrode separator assembly comprising the steps
   of:
               a) forming separately electrodes comprising a cathode assembly and an
                   anode assembly by coating an electroconductive material with an
                   electrode slurry;
10             b) forming an aqueous fluoropolymer separator dispersion;
               c) coating said aqueous fluoropolymer separator dispersion onto at least
                   one electrode; and
               d) drying said coated electrode,
               to form an integrated electrode separator assembly.
15         In one embodiment of the invention, steps a), c) and d) are combined into a
   single operation wherein an electroconductive material is first coated with preferably
   an aqueous fluoropolymer electrode composition, although solvent cast electrode will
   work as well, dried, then coated with said aqueous fluoropolymer separator
   dispersion, then dried to form an integrated electrode separator.
20         In second embodiment of the invention steps a), c) and d) are combined into a
   single operation wherein a slurry of electroconductive material and aqueous
   fluoropolymer separator dispersion are simultaneously cast on to current collector and
   dried to form integrated electrode Separator assembly.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25         Percentages, as used herein are weight percentages, unless noted otherwise,
   and molecular weights are weight average molecular weights, unless other wise
   stated.
           All references cited are incorporated herein by reference.
           The aqueous fluoropolymer dispersion or emulsion of the present invention
30 forms a tough, thin, porous network on one or more electrodes - serving the function
   of a pre-made separator film or membrane found in typical lithium ion batteries.
           The aqueous fluoropolymer dispersion consists of fluoropolymer particles
   dispersed in an aqueous media. The fluoropolymer particles have an average particle

   size of less than 500 nm, preferably less than 400 nm, and more preferably less than
   300 nm. Small particle size (<200 nm diameter) may have advantages as far as
   stability and non-settling of the coating mixture.
            The fluoropolymer particles may be homogeneous in composition, or may be
 5 formed in a known manner to vary within the particle - such as in a core-shell
   structure. A heterogeneous structure may be used to create particles that can more
   easily transform from the aqueous dispersion to the final porous separator layer.
            The manner of practicing the invention will be generally described with
   respect to a specific embodiment thereof, namely polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF)
10 based polymer prepared in aqueous emulsion polymerization using non-fluorinated
   emulsifier as the principle emulsifier. Although the process of the invention has been
   generally illustrated with respect to PVDF based polymers, one of skill in the art will
   recognize that analogous polymerization techniques can be applied to the preparation
   of homopolymers and copolymers of other fluorinated monomers and their
15 formulation for the coating of separators in general, and more specifically to
   copolymers of vinylidene fluoride (VDF), tetrafluoroethylene (TFE), and/or
   chlorotrifluoroethylene (CTFE) - with co-reactive monomers (fluorinated or non
   fluorinated) such as hexafluoropropylene (HFP), perfluorovinyl ether, vinyl acetate,
   acrylates, methacrylyates, and the like. While non-fluorinated surfactants are
20 preferred, the use of fluorosurfactants is also anticipated by this invention.
            The term "vinylidene fluoride polymer" (PVDF) used herein includes
   normally high molecular weight homopolymers, copolymers, and terpolymers within
   its meaning. Copolymers of PVDF are particularly preferred, as they are softer
   having a lower Tm and a reduced crystalline structure. Such copolymers include
25 those containing at least 50 mole percent, preferably at least 70 mole percent,
   preferably at least 75 mole %, more preferably at least 80 mole %, and even more
   preferably at least 85 mole % of vinylidene fluoride copolymerized with at least one
   comonomer selected from the group consisting of tetrafluoroethylene,
   trifluoroethylene, chlorotrifluoroethylene, hexafluoropropene, vinyl fluoride,
30 pentafluoropropene, tetrafluoropropene, perfluoromethyl vinyl ether, perfluoropropyl
   vinyl ether and any other monomer that would readily copolymerize with vinylidene
   fluoride. Particularly preferred are copolymers composed of from at least about 70
   and up to 90 mole percent vinylidene fluoride, and correspondingly from 10 to 30
   mole percent hexafluoropropene. Terpolymers of vinylidene fluoride,

   hexafluoropropene and tetrafluoroethylene are also representatives of the class of
   vinylidene fluoride copolymers, embodied herein.
            The PVDF for use in the separator coating composition preferably has a high
   molecular weight. By high molecular weight, as used herein, is meant PVDF having
 5 a melt viscosity of greater than 1.0 kilopoise according to ASTM method D-3835
   measured at 450 'F and 100 sec .
            The PVDF used in the invention is generally prepared by polymerizing means
   known in the art, using aqueous free-radical emulsion polymerization - although
   suspension, solution and supercritical CO 2 polymerization processes may also be
10 used. In a general emulsion polymerization process, a reactor is charged with
   deionized water, water-soluble surfactant capable of emulsifying the reactant mass
   during polymerization and optional paraffin wax antifoulant. The mixture is stirred
   and deoxygenated. A predetermined amount of chain transfer agent, CTA, is then
   introduced into the reactor, the reactor temperature raised to the desired level and
15 vinylidene fluoride and one or more comonomers is fed into the reactor. Once the
   initial charge of monomers are introduced and the pressure in the reactor has reached
   the desired level, an initiator emulsion or solution is introduced to start the
   polymerization reaction. The temperature of the reaction can vary depending on the
   characteristics of the initiator used and one of skill in the art will know how to do so.
20 Typically the temperature will be from about 300 to 150'C, preferably from about 60'
   to 1 10 C. Once the desired amount of polymer has been reached in the reactor, the
   monomer feed will be stopped, but initiator feed is optionally continued to consume
   residual monomer. Residual gases (containing unreacted monomers) are vented and
   the latex recovered from the reactor.
25          The surfactant used in the polymerization can be any surfactant known in the
   art to be useful in PVDF emulsion polymerization, including perfluorinated, partially
   fluorinated, and non-fluorinated surfactants. Preferably, for regulatory reasons, the
   PVDF emulsion of the invention is made and processed without any fluorinated
   surfactants (is fluorosurfactant-free). Non-fluorinated surfactants useful in the PVDF
30 polymerization could be both ionic and non-ionic in nature including, but are not
   limited to, 3-allyloxy-2-hydroxy-1-propane sulfonic acid salts, polyvinylphosphonic
   acid, polyacrylic acids, polyvinyl sulfonic acid, and salts thereof, polyethylene glycol
                                                I;

   and/or polypropylene glycol and the block copolymers thereof, alkyl phosphonates
   and siloxane-based surfactants.
            The PVDF polymerization results in a latex generally having a solids level of
   10 to 60 percent by weight, preferably 10 to 50 percent.
 5          In the present invention, PVDF polymer particles are generally present in the
   coating composition, however a blend of several different polymer binders, preferably
   all fluoropolymer binders, and most preferably all PVDF binders may also be used.
   In one embodiment, only thermoplastic fluoropolymers that can be softened by
   fugitive adhesion promoters are used.
10          There are several advantages of using a fluoropolymer dispersion or emulsion
   over solvent-based fluoropolymer solutions in the present invention (PVDF preferred
   and used as an exemplary fluoropolymer). These include performance, manufacturing
   and environmental advantages, including, but not limited to:
            a) Aqueous PVDF-based compositions are safer to use and process, less
15              hazardous to health, and more environmentally friendly than solvent-based
                PVDF compositions.
            b) Aqueous PVDF dispersions were advantageously synthesized using non
                fluorinated surfactant.
            c) Aqueous PVDF dispersions can be used as synthesized, without the need
20              for isolating and drying to a powder- saving time and energy.
            d) Water has a lower boiling point than typically used organic solvents, so the
                coating can be dried at a lower temperature, or a shorter period of time, if
                desired.
            e) Aqueous PVDF dispersions contain PVDF particles that can be softened to
25              adhere to additive particles and the electrodes, by using fugitive adhesion
                promoters - resulting in a separator layer on the electrode upon drying.
            f) The     PVDF-based       copolymers   have    advantageously    low   melting
                temperature or low to zero crystalline content so that can have lower film
                forming temperature and/or require less fugitive solvents.
30          The aqueous fluoropolymer emulsion can be used as produced to form a
   separator coating, or can be used as part of an aqueous slurry of the polymer particles
   and other additives, with the polymer particles serving as a binder and forming a
                                                7

   continuous, web-like structure within the dried separator layer. A minor amount of
   one or more other water-miscible solvents, such as ethylene glycol, may be mixed
   into the PVDF latex to improve freeze-thaw stability.
            Additives can be blended into the aqueous fluoropolymer dispersion help form
 5 an optimal number and distribution of microvoids to control porosity. Additives can
   also help control the rate by which the fluoropolymer particles join together to form
   the continuous separator structure; influence the properties of the separator layer, such
   as the dimensional stability and toughness by promoting a stronger adhesion between
   the fluoropolymer particles (adhesion promoters); and help to maintain the physical
10 shape of the separator.
            Inorganic materials such as nano-clays, fumed silica, fumed alumina, and
   nano-size metal oxides and related inorganic additives are compatible with
   waterbased formulations and can be used as part of separator coatings in this
   invention. These inorganic materials are added to the aqueous fluoropolymer as
15 powders, to form an aquoeus fluoropolymer slurry. These optional inorganic
   materials can be judiciously chosen based on slurry stability, ease of application, cost,
   effect of on long-term battery performance, and most importantly, dimensional
   stability of the composite at high temperature.
            The inorganic materials are characterized in that their physical properties are
20 not changed even at a high temperature of 2000 C. or higher, the separator coating
   layer using the inorganic particles can have excellent heat resistance.
            The inorganic powdery materials, must be electrochemically stable (not
   subjected to oxidation and/or reduction at the range of drive voltages). Moreover, the
   inorganic materials preferably have a high ion conductivity. Inorganic powdery
25 materials of low density are preferred over higher density materials, as the weight of
   the battery produced can be reduced. The dielectric constant is preferably 5 or
   greater. Useful inorganic powdery materials in the invention include, but are not
   limited to BaTiO 3 , Pb(Zr,Ti)0 3 , Pb 1x LaxZryO 3 (0<x<1, 0<y<1),
   PBMg 3Nb 2/3) 3,PbTiO3 , hafnia (HfO (HfO2), SrTiO 3 , SnO 2, CeO 2 , MgO, NiO, CaO,
30 ZnO, Y 2 0 3 , A12 0 3 , TiO 2 , SiC, ZrO 2 , boron silicate, BaSO 4 , nano-clays, fumed silica,
   fumed alumina, or mixtures thereof.
            The separator layer of the invention can form pores having a size of several
   micrometers by controlling the size of the powdery inorganic materials, content of
   inorganic materials and the mixing ratio of inorganic materials and binder polymer.

           The powdery inorganic materials preferably have a size of 0.001-10 microns.
   When the size is less than 0.001 micron the inorganic particles have poor
   dispersibility. When the size is greater than 10 micron the coating has an increased
   thickness under the same solid content, resulting in degradation in mechanical
 5 properties. Furthermore, such excessively large pores may increase a possibility of
   internal short circuit being generated during repeated charge/discharge cycles.
   The powdery inorganic materials can be present in the fluoropolymer slurry at 0 to 99
   weight percent, preferably 30 - 95 weight percent, and more preferably from 50 to 90
   weight percent, based on the total of polymer solids and powdery inorganic material.
10 When the content of the powdery inorganic materials is greater than 99 weight
   percent, the polymer content is too low to provide sufficient adhesion among the
   inorganic materials, resulting in degradation in mechanical properties of a finally
   formed separator.
           In one embodiment, the fluoropolymer separator coatings on the anode and
15 cathode are different, with one layer being fluoropolymer-rich (greater than 50 weight
   percent fluropolymer and preferably greater than 75 weight percent polymer) to
   prevent electrical contact between electrodes and improving ionic conductivity; the
   other layer could be inorganic material-rich (greater than 50 weight percent inorganic
   material and preferably greater than 75 weight percent inorganic material) to provide
20 high temperature dimensional stability through the incorporation of nano-size
   inorganic additives. Consequently, there could be two slurry formulations to optimize:
   one fluoropolymer-rich and the other inorganic-rich. For example, the coating with a
   fluoropolymer-rich layer will provide flexibility, impact resistance, and high swelling
   with electrolyte at elevated temperatures to mitigate hot spots. The inorganic-rich
25 coating will introduce dimensional stability and act as ceramic-type insulating layer at
   elevated temperature, i.e. > 150'C to prevent catastrophic failure. The robustness of
   the separator layer will be determined by measuring thickness, mechanical integrity,
   and swelling by electrolyte at room and elevated temperatures.
           In one embodiment, only one of the electrodes (either anode or cathode) has
30 an integrated separator layer that serves as the only barrier between the anode and
   cathode elements, with the other electrode being uncoated.
           In another embodiment, both anode and cathode electrodes have integrated
   separator coating that serve as the barrier between the anode and cathode elements,
   providing higher safety value.

            One safety advantage of the invention is that it can mitigate hot spot formation
   in the battery by regulating electrolyte distribution. At higher temperature the IES
   coating will swell with electrolyte, creating a larger separation between electrodes,
   depriving electrodes of electrolyte at the hot spot. As a result, the local ion transfer
 5 will be decreased, quenching the hot spot. When the hot spot cools, the separator layer
   releases electrolyte and returns to its original dimensions, resuming normal operation.
            One or more other additives, known in the art, may be added at low effective
   levels to enhance certain properties of the aqueous fluoropolymer slurry, processing,
   or the final separator coating. These include, but are not limited to surfactants,
10 settling agents, wetting agents, thickeners, rheology modifiers, fugative adhesion
   promoters, fillers, leveling agents, anti-foaming agents, pH buffers, and other
   adjutants typically used in waterborne formulation while meeting desired electrode
   requirements.
            Surfactants and/or anti-settling agents may be added to the fluoropolymer
15 composition at 0 to 10 parts, preferably from 0.1 to 10 parts, and more preferably 0.5
   to 5 parts per 100 parts of water. These anti-settling agents or surfactants are added to
   the fluoropolymer dispersion post-polymerization, generally to improve the shelf
   stability, and provide additional stabilization during slurry preparation. Some
   surfactant/anti-settling agent is also present in the composition remaining from the
20 polymerization process. Useful anti-settling agents include, but are not limited to,
   ionic substances, such as salts of alkyl sulfates, sulfonates, phosphates, phophonates
   (such as sodium lauryl sulfate and ammonium lauryl sulfate) and salts of partially
   fluorinated alkyl sulfates, carboxylates, phosphates, phosphonates (such as those sold
   under the CAPSTONE brandname by DuPont), and non-ionic surfactants such as the
25 TRITON X series (from Dow) and PLURONIC series (from BASF). In one
   embodiment, only anionic surfactants are used. It is preferred that no fluorinated
   surfactants are present in the composition, either residual surfactant from the
   polymerization process, or added post-polymerization in forming or concentrating an
   aqueous dispersion.
30          Wetting agents may be incorporated into the composition at from 0 to 5 parts,
   and preferably from 0 to 3 parts per 100 parts of water. Surfactants can serve as
   wetting agents, but wetting agents may also include non-surfactants. In some
   embodiments, the wetting agent can be an organic solvent. The presence of optional
   wetting agents permits uniform dispersion of powdery inorganic material(s) into
                                                 1(

   aqueous dispersion of vinylidene fluoride polymer. Useful wetting agents include,
   but are not limited to, ionic and non-ionic surfactants such as the TRITON series
   (from Dow), BYK series (from ALTANA) and the PLURONIC series (from BASF),
   and organic liquids that are compatible with the aqueous dispersion, including but not
 5 limited to NMP, DMSO, and acetone.
            Thickeners and rheology modifiers may be present in the fluoropolymer
   separator composition at from 0 to 10 parts, preferably from 0 to 5 parts per 100 parts
   of water. The addition of water-soluble thickener or rheology modifier to the above
   dispersion prevents or slows down the settling of inorganic powdery materials while
10 providing appropriate slurry viscosity for a coating process. Useful thickeners
   include, but are not limited to the ACRYSOL series (from Dow Chemical); fumed
   silica and/or fumed alumina; partially neutralized poly (acrylic acid) or poly
   (methacrylic acid) such as CARBOPOL from Lubrizol; and carboxylated alkyl
   cellulose, such as carboxylated methyl cellulose (CMC). Adjustment of the
15 formulation pH can improve the effectiveness of some of the thickeners. In addition
   to organic rheology modifiers, inorganic rheology modifiers can also be used alone or
   in combination. Useful inorganic rheology modifiers include, but are not limited to,
   inorganic rheology modifiers including but not limited to natural clays such as
   montmorillonite and bentonite, manmade clays such as laponite, and others such as
20 silica, and talc.
            An optional fugitive adhesion promoter helps to produce the interconnectivity
   needed in coatings formed from the composition of the invention. By "fugitive
   adhesion promoter" as used herein is meant an agent that increases the
   interconnectivity of the composition after coating. The fugitive adhesion promoter is
25 then capable of being removed from the formed substrate generally by evaporation
   (for a chemical) or by dissipation (for added energy).
            The fugitive adhesion promoter can be a chemical material, an energy source
   combined with pressure, or a combination, used at an effective amount to cause
   interconnectivity of the components of the aqueous composition during formation of
30 the electrode. For chemical fugitive adhesion promoters, the composition contains 0
   to 150 parts, preferably I to 100 parts, and more preferably from 2 to 30 parts, of one
   or more fugitive adhesion promoters per 100 parts of water. Preferably this is an
   organic liquid, that is soluble or miscible in water. This organic liquid acts as a
   plasticizer for fluoropolymer particles, making them tacky and capable of acting as
                                                11

   discrete adhesion points during the drying step. The fluoropolymer particles are able
   to soften, flow and adhere to powdery materials during manufacture, resulting in
   electrodes with high connectivity that are non-reversible. In one embodiment the
   organic liquid is a latent solvent, which is a solvent that does not dissolve or
 5 substantially swell fluoropolymer resin at room temperature, but will solvate the
   fluoropolymer resin at elevated temperatures.      In one embodiment a useful organic
   solvent is N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone. Other useful fugitive adhesion promoter agents
   include, but are not limited to, dimethylformamide, N,N-dimethylacetamide,
   dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), hexamethylphosphamide, dioxane, tetrahydrofuran,
10 tetramethylurea, triethyl phosphate, trimethyl phosphate, dimethyl succinate, diethyl
   succinate and tetraethyl urea.
           In the case of energy as the fugitive adhesion promoter, useful energy sources
   include, but are not limited to, heat, IR radiation, and radio frequency (RF). For heat
   alone, the temperature during the processing of the PVDF composition on an
15 electrode should be about 20 to 50'C above the melting point of the polymer. When
   energy alone is used as the fugitive adhesion promoter, it is preferred that the heat is
   combined with pressure - such as a calendering step, for good interconnectivity.
           The aqueous fluoropolymer separator coating composition of the invention
   can be obtained in many different ways.
20         In one embodiment, a polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) dispersion is formed
   (preferably without any fluorosurfactant). A predetermined amount of any anti
   settling agent(s) or surfactant(s), is diluted in water and post-added to the PVDF
   dispersion latex with stirring, in order to provide adequate storage stability for the
   latex. To this PVDF dispersion/anti-settling mixture is added, with stirring, optional
25 wetting agent(s), followed by adding any thickener(s), fugitive adhesion promoter(s),
   and then bringing the pH up to the appropriate range for the thickener to be effective,
   if necessary. Some thickeners such as CMC are effective in a wide range of pH, i.e.
   from 3 to 9 pH for CMC. The optional powdery inorganic material(s) and other
   ingredients are then added to the mixture with stirring. It may be advantageous to
30 disperse the powdery inorganic material(s) in a fugitive adhesion promoter, the latent
   solvent or wetting agent to provide wetting of the powdery materials prior to
   admixing with the aqueous PVDF binder formulation. The final composition is then
   subjected to a high shear mixing to ensure uniform distribution of the powdery
   material in the composition. The final aqueous composition of the invention should
                                                 11,

   have a viscosity useful for coating onto an electrode. The useful viscosity is in the
   range of from 1,000 to 20,000 cps at 20 rpm, and 25'C depending on application
   methods.
           The aqueous fluoropolymer separator coating composition is applied onto at
 5 least one electrode, by means known in the art, such as by brush, roller, ink jet,
   squeegee, foam applicator, curtain coating, vacuum coating, slot die coater, or
   spraying.
           The electrodes of the invention are those known in the art. This includes pre
   formed cathode and anode stacks made by known methods, such as 1) using a PTFE
10 or PVDF binder in solvent solution to bind a powdery electrode material to an
   electroconductive substrate, and 2) the use of an aqueous composition having
   fluoropolymer particles and powdery electrode-forming materials to form a
   continuous, porous polymer network.
           In a preferred embodiment, the aqueous fluoropolymer electrode material and
15 the aqueous separator material are applied in a single operation - saving time and
   expense. No preformed electrode is needed, and no separator membrane is required.
   The integrated electrode separator assembly is made in a single process in which the
   electrode slurry (either solvent based or aqueous based) and the aqueous
   fluoropolymer composition of the invention are simultaneously applied onto an
20 electroconductive substrate using a multi slot die coater and then dried to form the
   integrated electrode separator assembly.
           The integrated separators of the invention can be used to form an
   electrochemical device, such as a battery, capacitor, electric double layer capacitor,
   membrane electrode assembly (MEA) or fuel cell, by means known in the art.
25         The IES of the invention has several advantages over the prior art, including
   but not limited to:
           1.       IES separators are less likely to have defects as compared to
   conventional freestanding separators because the layers are directly coated onto the
   electrodes. Handling of thin porous freestanding films often yields defects such as
30 pinholes, gels, wrinkles, and contaminants, which are potential safety issues in LIB
   (short circuits). The process for producing separators with the new technology
   includes a high degree of control that ensures high quality. Because of the increased
   quality control and no need to handle the thin separator layer,
                                                13

            2.      The production cost will be significantlt less relative to untreated
   polyolefin-based separator.
            3.       Safety is improved by the use of an all-aqueous fluorpolymer system
   over polyolefin-based separator and organic solvent systems.
 5          4.      Internal resistance will be lower than that of polyolefin-based
   separators. The resistance to electrolyte flow / mobility through the pores of aqueous
   fluoropolymer will be lower because the separator layer is compatible with the
   electrolyte and is cast seamlessly onto the electrode. Freestanding separators have
   sharp boundaries, which could cause interruption and resistance to ionic mobility at
10 the interfaces. In contrast, our proposed technology offers interconnectivity and
   continuity between electrodes and coated layers that should result in lowering
   impedance across the cell.
            5.      Wettability will increase as the electrolyte and waterbome
   fluoropolymers are both polar, in contrast to non-polar polyolefin separators.
15          6.      Chemical/electrochmical stability will be much better than polyolefin
   because the in-situ separator is based on a PVDF-based resin, which has proven
   chemical and electrochemical stability.
            7.      Pore size will be tunable and have a pore volume equivalent or greater
   than that of the electrodes. The pore size and distribution are expected to be more
20 uniform than those of freestanding separators since no stretching is needed.
            8.      Pinhole detection will be online for coated electrodes before assembly
   line. Interestingly, the rejection rate after cell assembly will decrease and cell safety
   will increase; undetected flaws in the separator coating on one electrode will be
   mitigated by the coating on the opposite electrode during cell lamination.
25          9.      Dimensional stability will improve as little or no shrinkage is expected
   due to the integrated structure of the in-situ separator and electrodes. In addition,
   fluoropolymers do not have the temperature and shrinkage limitations exhibited by
   freestanding polyolefin separators, which could allow cells to be dried at higher
   temperatures leading to higher throughput.
30          10.     Skew will not occur because there is no freestanding separator.
   Currently, when a strip of freestanding separator is laid out for lamination to
   electrodes, misalignment is often observed. Misalignment (skew) results in edge flaws
   and higher scrap generation.

            11.     Hot spot mitigation will be provided due to smart response: the in-situ
   separator is capable of mitigating hot spot formation in the cell by adapting to local
   temperatures at the electrode interfaces. The coated layer will swell at higher
   temperatures reducing effective ion transport and will go back to its original
 5 dimension when cooled.
            12.     Melt integrity will be superior to polyolefin-based separators because
   the melting temperature of the proposed waterborne fluoropolymers is higher. In
   addition, high melt viscosity resins that have minimal flow under normal forces, even
   above their melting temperature, could be selected.
10 Examples
   General:
            The latexes of the invention are prepared by a typical process for making
   fluoropolymers using emulsifiers. The emulsifiers may be ionic or non-ionic, such as
   those containing blocks of polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol and/or
15 polytetramethylene glycol. Preferably, no fluorinated or partially fluorinated
   surfactant is used in the process and none is then present in the fluoropolymer
   produced.     The fluoropolymer dispersions produced have good latex stability and
   shelf-life, and are coagulum-free. These preferred dispersions are absolutely free of
   fluorinated or partially fluorinated surfactant- with no fluorinated surfactant being
20 used in either the synthesis or in a post-addition.
            In the polymerization process, the emulsifier may be added all upfront prior to
   polymerization, fed continuously during the polymerization, fed partly before and
   then during polymerization, or fed after polymerization started and progressed for a
   while.
25 Example 1:
            Into an 80-gallon stainless steel reactor was charged, 345 lbs of deionized
   water, 250 grams of PLURONIC 3 1RI (non- fluorinated non-ionic surfactant from
   BASF), and 0.3 lbs of propane. Following evacuation, agitation was begun at 23 rpm
   and the reactor was heated. After reactor temperature reached the desired set point of
30 100 'C, the VDF charge was started. Reactor pressure was then raised to 650 psi by
   charging approximately 35 lbs VDF into the reactor. After reactor pressure was
   stabilized, 4.5 lbs of initiator solution made of 1.0 wt% potassium persulfate and 1.0

   wt % sodium acetate was added to the reactor to initiate polymerization. The rate of
   further addition of the initiator solution was adjusted to obtain and maintain a final
   VDF polymerization rate of roughly 70 pounds per hour. The VDF
   homopolymerization was continued until approximately 150 pounds VDF was
 5 introduced in the reaction mass. The VDF feed was stopped and the batch was
   allowed to react-out at the reaction temperature to consume residual monomer at
   decreasing pressure. After 25 minutes, the agitation was stopped and the reactor was
   cooled, vented and the latex recovered. Solids in the recovered latex were determined
   by gravimetric techniques and were about 27 weight% and a melt viscosity of about
10 27 kp according to ASTM method D-3835 was measured at 450 'F and 100 sec . The
   melting temperature of the resin was measured in accordance with ASTM method D
   3418 and was found to be about 162 'C. The weight average particle size was
   measured by NICOMP laser light scattering instrument and was found to be about
   150 nm.
15 Example 2:
            Into an 80-gallon stainless steel reactor was charged, 345 lbs of deionized
   water, 250 grams of PLURONIC 3 1RI (non- fluorinated non-ionic surfactant from
   BASF), and 0.6 lbs of ethyl acetate. Following evacuation, agitation was begun at 23
   rpm and the reactor was heated. After the reactor temperature reached the desired set
20 point of 100 'C, the VDF and HFP monomer were introduced to reactor with HFP
   ratio of 40 wt% of total monomers. Reactor pressure was then raised to 650 psi by
   charging approximately 35 lbs total monomers into the reactor. After the reactor
   pressure was stabilized, 5.0 lbs of initiator solution made of 1.0 wt% potassium
   persulfate and 1.0 wt % sodium acetate were added to the reactor to initiate
25 polymerization. Upon initiation, the ratio of HFP to VDF was so adjusted to arrive at
   16.5% HFP to total monomers in the feed. The rate of further addition of the initiator
   solution was also adjusted to obtain and maintain a final combined VDF and HFP
   polymerization rate of roughly 70 pounds per hour. The VDF and HPF
   copolymerization was continued until approximately 160 pounds monomers were
30 introduced in the reaction mass. The HFP feed was stopped but VDF feed continued
   till approximately 180 lbs of total monomers were fed to the reactor. The VDF feed
   was stopped and the batch was allowed to react-out at the reaction temperature to
   consume residual monomer at decreasing pressure. After 40 minutes, the initiator feed

   and agitation were stopped and the reactor was cooled, vented and the latex
   recovered. Solids in the recovered latex were determined by gravimetric technique
   and were about 32 weight% and melt viscosity of about 28 kp according to ASTM
   method D-3835 measured at 450 'F and 100 sec . The melting temperature of resin
 5 was measured in accordance with ASTMD3418 and was found to be about 120 'C.
   The weight average particle size was measured by NICOMP laser light scattering
   instrument and was found to be about 160 nm.
   Example 3:
            Into an 80-gallon stainless steel reactor was charged, 345 lbs of deionized
10 water, 250 grams of PLURONIC 3 1RI (non- fluorinated non-ionic surfactant from
   BASF), and 0.35 lbs of ethyl acetate. Following evacuation, agitation was begun at
   23 rpm and the reactor was heated. After reactor temperature reached the desired set
   point of 100 'C, the VDF and HFP monomer were introduced to reactor with HFP
   ratio of 13.2 wt% of total monomers. Reactor pressure was then raised to 650 psi by
15 charging approximately 35 lbs total monomers into the reactor. After reactor pressure
   was stabilized, 3.5 lbs of initiator solution made of 1.0 wt% potassium persulfate and
   1.0 wt % sodium acetate were added to the reactor to initiate polymerization. Upon
   initiation, the ratio of HFP to VDF was so adjusted to arrive at 4.4% HFP to total
   monomers in the feed. The rate of further addition of the initiator solution was also
20 adjusted to obtain and maintain a final combined VDF and HFP polymerization rate
   of roughly 90 pounds per hour. The VDF and HPF copolymerization was continued
   until approximately 160 pounds monomers were introduced in the reaction mass. The
   HFP feed was stopped but VDF feed continued till approximately 180 lbs of total
   monomers were fed to the reactor. The VDF feed was stopped and the batch was
25 allowed to react-out at the reaction temperature to consume residual monomer at
   decreasing pressure. After 40 minutes, the initiator feed and agitation were stopped
   and the reactor was cooled, vented and the latex recovered. Solids in the recovered
   latex were determined by gravimetric technique and were about 32 weight% and melt
   viscosity of about 38 kp according to ASTM method D-3835 measured at 450 'F and
30 100 sec- 1. The melting temperature of resin was measured in accordance with ASTM
   method D-3418 and was found to be about 152 'C.         The weight average particle size
   was measured by NICOMP laser light scattering instrument and was found to be
   about 160 nm.
                                                 17

           The above PVDF based latexes of example 1-3 were then formulated into an
   aqueous separator coating composition and applied to a separator and dried.
   Examples 4-6:
           Three identical stock solutions were prepared comprising 2 g BYK-346 (from
 5 BYK-Chemie), 20 g of DI water, and 20 g of tri-ethyl-phosphate (TEP). These stock
   solutions were independently added to 80 g of latexes of examples 1-3 and called
   example 4-6 respectively.
   Example 7-9:
           In the second step, three identical stock solutions were prepared, comprised of
10 30 g of 1% aqueous solution of CARBAPOL 940 (from Lubrizol) in DI water and 6 g
   of 0.7 % aqueous solution of LiOH (neutralizing agent) in DI water. These stock
   solutions were individually added to example 4-6 and called example 7-9 respectively
   to thicken the latex without coagulating it.
   Example 10-12:
15         1.5 g of AEROXIDE ALU C (Fumed-Alumina by EVONIK) was added to
   210 g of DI water. This mixture then was added to the latex of Examples 1-3 causing
   thickening of latex without coagulating them. These were designated examples 10-12
   respectively,
   Example 13:
20         High temperature and ionic conductivity of a separator or IES can be
   improved by adding nano-ceramics to a separator slurry prior to casting.     Three parts
   of example-7, one part of example 9, and 2 part AERODIP W 640 ZX (from
   EVONIK) were mixed to make the separator slurry.
   Separator forming Evaluation:
25         The quality of the separator formation was evaluated by preparing both anode
   and cathode electrodes according to conventional methods of a waterborne slurry as
   described hereafter.
           Waterborne anode slurry composition of Table 1 was cast on copper foil and
   dried in oven for 15 minutes at 1300 C and then for another 10 minutes at 170C.
30
                                                18

                                           TABLE 1
     Ingredients                                 Wet (g)     Wet %      Dry (g)   Dry %
     'CMC solution @ 1.35 wt%                    400         40.0       5.4        1.0
     Graphite MCMB                               529         52.9       529       97.0
     KWB, Example 1                              36          3.6         10.8     2.0
     Water (to adjust viscosity)                 35          3.5        0.0       0.0
     Total                                       1000        100        545.2      100
    'Aqualon* CMC-7H3SF (from Ashland)
            The waterbome cathode slurry composition of Table 2 was cast on aluminum
 5 foil and dried in oven for 15 minutes at 130 C and then for another 10 minutes at
   170C.
                                           TABLE 2
       Ingredients                           Wet (g)     Wet %       Dry (g)    Dry %
       Carbopol 940 (by Lubrizol) in
       water     wate
             @ 0.75    @
                  .75 wt%
                        t~o450                           43.0%o      3.375      0.6%
       Li OH aqueous solution at 0.2%        50          4.8%        0.2        0.0%
       Carbon black (Super-P by Timcal)       10.5       1.0%        10.5       2.0%
       Lithium cobalt oxide                  500         47.8%       500        95.3%
       KWB, Example 1                        35          3.3%        10.8       2.1%
       Total                                  1045.5     1.00        524.88     1.00
            Either the anode or cathode electrodes was coated with samples of EXAMPLE
10 7-13 using doctor blades coater. Prior to casting the separator, the porous and dry
   electrode can be wetted with water or other inert solvents such as alcohol or ether, in
   order to prevent cracking of separator.
            Also, an IES was made by simultaneous or sequential casting a separator onto
   the wet electrode. As an example, a cathode was cast on aluminum foil (having a dry
15 thickness be 50-70 micron thick) and before drying, the slurry of examples 7-13 were
   cast on to the wet electrode using a doctor blades coater to produce 10-30 microns
   thick separator when is dried.
            The composite IES was then dried in oven at 170' C for 15 minutes. The
   electronic real resistance of solid uniform cast separator on electrode was over 100 k
20 ohm-cm 2 . The dry thickness of cast separator was about 10 micron.
            Two 2030 coin cells were constructed with the IES anode and cathodes and no
   conventional separator was used. BASF LP57 (IM LiPF6 in EC/EMC, 50-100mg
                                                1Q

  charged in each cell) standard electrolyte was used. The cells showed good open
  circuit voltage and cycling. After 5 cycles of low current formation (C/10), the battery
  still show expected open circuit voltage.
           Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
5 "comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
  interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
  components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers,
  steps or components.
                                              2n

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      An integrated electrode separator assembly comprising at least one anode
electrode, and at least one cathode electrode, separated by at least one porous
fluoropolymer separator coating layer, said separator coating layer, with no separate
separator membrane being directly adhered to at least one electrode wherein said
porous fluoropolymer separator coating layer comprises interconnected fluoropolymer
particles having an average particle size of less than 500nm.
2.      The integrated electrode separator of claim 1, wherein said porous
fluoropolymer separator coating layer is a waterborne coating.
3.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of claim 1 or 2, wherein said
electrode coating on the anode and cathode can be the same or different.
4.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of claim 3, wherein the electrode
coatings are different, with one coating being fluoropolymer-rich, and the other
coating being inorganic material-rich.
5.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of any one of claims 1 to 4,
wherein said fluoropolymer comprises a polyvinylidene fluoride homopolymer or
copolymer having at least 70 weight percent of vinylidene fluoride units.
6.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of any one of claims I to 5,
wherein the fluoropolymer particles have a weight average particle size of less than
400 nm.
7.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein said fluoropolymer separator layer further comprises powdery inorganic
material that are electrochemically stable.
8.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of claim 1, wherein said
fluoropolymer separator layer further comprises one or more additives selected from
the group consisting of surfactants, settling agents, wetting agents, thickeners,
                                            21

rheology modifiers, fugative adhesion promoters, fillers, leveling agents, anti-foaming
agents, pH buffers.
9.      The integrated electrode separator assembly of any one of claims 1 to 8,
wherein said fluoropolymer is a high molecular weight fluoropolymer having a melt
viscosity of greater than 1.0 kilopoise according to ASTM method D-3835 measured
at 450 'F and 100 sec .
10.     The integrated electrode separator assembly of any one of claims I to 9,
wherein said assembly makes up part of a battery, capacitor, electric double layer
capacitor, membrane electrode assembly or fuel cell.
11.     The integrated electrode separator assembly of any one of claims 1 to 10,
wherein said separator coating layer has a dry thickness of 30 microns or less.
12.     A process for forming an integrated electrode separator assembly comprising
the steps of:
            a. forming separately electrodes comprising a cathode assembly and an
                anode assembly by coating an electroconductive material with an
                electrode slurry;
            b. forming an aqueous fluoropolymer separator dispersion;
            c.  coating said aqueous fluoropolymer separator dispersion onto at least
                one electrode; and
            d. drying said coated electrode,
            to form an integrated electrode separator assembly.
13.     The process of claim 12, wherein said aqueous fluoropolymer separator
dispersion comprises a polyvinylidene homopolymer or copolymer.
14.     The process of claim 12 or 13, where said process is performed as a single unit
operation, wherein an electroconductive material is first coated with an aqueous
fluoropolymer electrode composition to form the electrodes, dried, then coated with
                                           22

said aqueous fluoropolymer separator dispersion, then dried to form an integrated
electrode separator.
15.     The process of any one of claims 12 to 14 wherein said process is performed
in a single step in which the electrode slurry and aqueous fluoropolymer separator
dispersion are simultaneously applied onto an electroconductive material using a
multi-slot die coater, then dried to form the integrated electrode separator assembly.
                                            23

