                                       ABSTRACT
   A method of determining a requirements characterisation profile for an entity is
   disclosed. The method comprises the steps of receiving classification
 5 parameters defining a requirement for an entity and selecting, in dependence
   on the classification parameters, a set of entities from a database of previously
   assessed entities. The method further comprises retrieving from the database
   characterisation parameters of the selected set of entities, and constructing, in
   dependence on the characterisation parameters, a requirements
10 characterisation profile for the entity. An apparatus is provided that comprised
   means for performing such a method.

              1/43
   112
                 110
--       100-                         10
              --                  108
                     102
                             4114
     120
                         118
              FIG. I

                                      Requirements characterisation
   This application is a divisional application of Australian application no. 2012314099, the disclosure of
   which is incorporated herein by reference.         Most of the disclosure of that application is also included
 5 herein, however, reference may be made to the specification of application no. 2012314099 as filed to
   gain further understanding of the invention claimed herein.
   This invention relates to apparatus for and method of providing a requirements characterisation profile for
   an entity. In particular, the invention allows for the translation of a generic requirements request into a
10 specific requirements request. Variants of the invention may allow for translation between different
   models of requirements between different organisations. The invention may also allow for the review and
   revision of the resulting requirements request. Embodiments of the invention may also provide
   recommendations of suitable assessments for determining whether the determined requirements are met.
   The invention has relevance to a wide number of fields in which a user is required to draw up a
15 requirements request based on an apparently limited amount of relevant initial information, for example
   when a requirements request is required to be drawn up by a non-specialist. A specific example is
   presented in the field of human resources, describing how such a system may assist in drawing up a job
   description for a job vacancy.
20 A common problem in many fields is that a requirements request - an order for a part, a request for
   tenders, even a job description - is often not fit for purpose. The request may be unhelpfully generic,
   resulting in many clearly unsuitable matches needing to be filtered out. In some cases, the request may
   be little more than a "wish list", specifying features which may have little bearing on what is actually
   required to fulfil the requirement. For example, features may be described as "essential" which in reality
25 are not, resulting in potentially suitable matches being needlessly rejected. In other situations the request
   may fail to list (or give insufficient weighting to) important features, resulting in matches that later prove to
   be unsuitable.
   These problems clearly result in inefficiencies, but in certain circumstances could also result in more
30 serious consequences. For example, a request for a replacement machine part based on incomplete or
   inappropriate data which may result in an unsuitable part being used, and the part potentially failing
   catastrophically. Such a situation could arise, for example, when parts exactly matching the original are
   no longer manufactured and it may not be known precisely which features of the original part are
   essential and which could be approximated or ignored, without compromising performance or safety (but
35 potentially resulting in a cost saving).
   As a further example, in the field of human resources, a common complaint is that the hiring process is
   often imprecise and arbitrary. Typically, a manager (such as a line manager or human resources
   manager) decides themselves what features of a candidate are considered to be relevant for a particular
40 job vacancy, draws up a corresponding job description comprising a list of required skills, experience and
   qualifications, and assesses candidates accordingly for the presence of those required skills, experience
   and qualifications. In some cases, a job specification would also list desirable competencies of a
   candidate. Invariably, however, the existence of a very wide range of possible requirements means that
   these lists of requirements are often poor tools for determining candidate suitability. This is perhaps
45 unsurprising, given that those drawing up the hiring specification are usually unlikely to have exhaustive
   knowledge of all of the required skills, experience, qualifications and competencies deemed necessary. A
                                                            1

   poor job description is therefore often the weak link in the hiring process - and this may be true even if
   the subsequent assessment is entirely valid; the wrong competencies may be being assessed. The result
   may be the placing of candidates in unsuitable jobs, as well as jobs being filled by unsuitable (or at least
   non-optimal) candidates.
 5
   Generally, these situations may arise because of lack of knowledge and/or experience of the individual
   (perhaps a non-specialist in the area) tasked with drawing up the requirements request. Alternatively,
   there may simply be a lack of relevant information on which to base the requirements request.
10 The present invention aims to address at least some of these problems.
   According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of determining a           requirements
   characterisation profile for an entity, comprising the steps of: receiving classification parameters defining
   a requirement for an entity; selecting, in dependence on the classification parameters, a set of entities
15 from a database of previously assessed entities; retrieving from the database characterisation parameters
   of the selected set of entities; and constructing, in dependence on the characterisation parameters, a
   requirements characterisation profile for the entity.
   Further features of the invention - which may be provided dependently on or independently of the above
20 or any other aspect(s) of the invention, in any appropriate combination - preferably include:
        e  At least one database, comprising entity data. Preferably, the entity data comprises assessment
           data (such as characteristics and/or performance data).
        "  At least one server, for housing the at least one database. A plurality of servers may also be
25         used, for example in a distributed or redundant arrangement.
        *  A method of receiving an initial requirements request.
        *  A method of receiving a requirements model.
        *  A method of receiving a set of classification parameters. Preferably, the classification parameters
           allow an entity to be identified generally. More preferably, the classification parameters are in the
30         form of a nested list of classes and sub-classes.
        *  A method of identifying in dependence on the classification parameters a set of potential
           candidate entities.
        *  A method of determining a characterisation          profile comprising a set of characterisation
           parameters of the set of potential candidate entities. Preferably, only a subset of characterisation
35         parameters is used. More preferably, only the most significant characterisation parameters are
           used. The most significant characterisation parameters may comprise those deemed to be most
           relevant and least relevant. Preferably, the characterisation parameters may be competencies.
        *  A method of assigning the characterisation parameters to an importance class. Preferably, the
           importance class may be one of: essential, desirable, relevant, non-relevant. Preferably, the
40         method further comprises determining a characterisation profile or model determined from,
           preferably comprising a subset of, the characterisation parameters.
        *  A method of determining the fraction of members of the set of potential candidate entities with
           characterisation parameters in each of the importance classes. Preferably, the method further
           comprises determining the probability of a randomly selected member of the set of potential
45         candidate entities having a characterisation parameter in an importance class. More preferably,
           the method further comprises determining the probability for each of a set of characterisation
           parameters for each of a set of importance classes.
                                                         2

   e A method of receiving a set of context parameters or variables. The classification parameters or
     variables may be determined from the answers to a series of questions concerning aspects of
     potential or candidate entities. Preferably, the method further comprises determining modifiers
     with which to adjust the probabilities in dependence on the context parameters. Preferably, the
 5   probability adjustment comprises a Bayesian probability calculation.
   " A method of determining a relevant set of context parameters. Preferably, the context parameters
     are determined in dependence on the classification of the entity. The context parameters may be
     determined from previously determined context parameters. Preferably, the number of context
     parameters used is in dependence on the classification of the entity. Preferably, the set of context
10   parameters used is those which are determined to have potentially greatest effect on the
     resultant probabilities. The method of determining whether a context variable is deemed
      'relevant" may make use of Kendall's Tau-C statistic.
   " A method of generating a set of requirements or a requirements request in dependence on the
     determined      probabilities and    adjusted   probabilities  of characterisation   parameters  and
15   importance classes.
   " A method of receiving an adjustment input in respect of the set of requirements or the
     requirements      request.    Preferably,   the  adjustment   input relates   to   assignment   of a
     characterisation parameter to an          importance class. More    preferably, the method further
     comprises adjusting the assignment of a characterisation parameter to an importance class.
20 e A method of forwarding the set of requirements or requirements request to a third party and for
     receiving adjustment inputs from the third party. The adjustment inputs from the third party may
     be distinguished by a suitable label, including representation of the third party adjustment input
     with a symbol, icon, identification number, and display of hover-over narrative.
   " A method of generating a revised set of requirements or requirements request in dependence on
25   a received adjustment input.
   " A method of determining a suitable assessment method or technique in dependence on the set of
     requirements or requirements request for assessing potential or candidate entities; preferably, a
     method of selecting a plurality of assessment methods or techniques in dependence on the set of
     requirements or requirements request for assessing potential or candidate entities. Preferably:
30         -   a plurality of assessment methods or techniques is selected in dependence on a plurality
               of characterisation parameters such as competencies
           -   a respective characterisation parameter weighting, or an importance class, is associated
              with each characterisation parameter, and, preferably, the plurality of assessment
               methods or techniques is further selected according to the characterisation parameter
35            weighting (or importance class), with, more preferably, only assessment methods or
               techniques related to higher weighted (or higher classified) characterisation parameters
               being selected
           -   the plurality of selected assessment methods or techniques may be limited to a maximum
               number of assessment methods or technique
40         -   the selected assessment methods or techniques may be optimised to relate to a
               maximum number of characterisation parameters
           -   the selected assessment methods or techniques may be optimised to relate to a
               maximum number of characterisation parameters in a particular importance class (for
               example 'high' importance)
45         -   the selected assessment methods or techniques may be optimised to relate to a
               maximum number of combined and weighted characterisation parameters (for example
               using characterisation parameter weightings)
                                                     3

          -    a respective assessment method weighting is associated with each assessment method
              and characterisation parameter
   e A method of evaluating a plurality of assessment results to generate a plurality of characterisation
     parameter     results,  preferably   individual   assessment results   relating   to  a  plurality of
 5   characterisation parameters. A plurality of assessment results may be weighted and combined to
     generate a characterisation parameter result.
   "  A method of evaluating a plurality of characterisation parameter results in dependence on a
     weighting input, said weighting input preferably being said characterisation parameter weighting
     (or importance class). Preferably, an assessment score (preferably a single assessment score) is
10   calculated in dependence on the plurality of assessment results and weighting inputs.
   " Integration of the method        in a platform that enables further functionality, for example
     administration of candidate entities; submission of invitations to candidates to undertake an
     assessment; administration of assessment results; collecting, scoring, evaluating and/or reporting
     of assessment results; presentation of assessment results; and/or other functions relating to a
15   characterisation profile and potential candidate entities.
   " A method of determining a job specification, comprising: receiving a job classification; selecting
     from a database in dependence on the classification a set of matching job profiles; extracting for
     each matching job profile a set of assessed competencies; determining the relative relevance of
     each of the competencies to the job classification; and generating a job specification based on
20   the determined relevant competencies. This may allow a user who has little understanding of job
     profiling to produce a set of required competencies that is based on competencies identified as
     important in previous profiles for similar jobs. It may also allow users to plan for future job
     vacancies and succession plans.
   " Preferably, the job classification comprises a standard classification, such as the Standard
25   Occupational Classification (SOC) code as used by O*NET. The classification may be based on a
     hybrid of standard classifications, for example using the granularity provided by a first
     classification, in combination with the set of aggregations of levels provided by a second
     classification.
   " Preferably, the competencies are defined according to a competency model of a sufficient
30   number of parameters to allow for compatibility by mapping to an externally supplied competency
     model. An example of such a model is the Universal competency Framework (UCF) developed
     by SHL Group.
   e The relevant competencies for a particular job may be determined from data compiled from
     assessments of workers employed in the same or similar jobs.
35 e Preferably, the relevance of competencies of a job specification may be adjusted according to a
     set of contextual variables determined by answers provided by the user to questions relating to
     particulars of the job. The particulars may comprise a requirement of the job, the job environment
     or of the job candidate.
   " Preferably, the relevance of competencies of a job specification may be adjusted by a moderator
40   to which the job specification is referred.
   " At least one server, for providing access for a client or user either directly or via a computer, for
     example via a web interface, to the results of processing.
   * One or more server functions may be combined in a single server.
   * Suitable computer servers may run common operating systems such as the Windows systems
45   provided by Microsoft Corporation, OS X provided by Apple, various Linux or Unix systems or any
     other suitable operating system.
                                                     4

       e    Suitable databases include ones based on SQL, for example as provided by Microsoft
            Corporation or those from Oracle or others.
       e    Remote access to the analytics system may be provided via one or more web servers configured
            to provide a website or other remotely-accessible interface. Web interfaces and other code may
 5          be written in any suitable language including PHP and JavaScript. A Microsoft .Net based stack
            may be used.
       "   A method, preferably as foresaid, further comprising determining a raw profile for the entity in
           direct dependence on the selection of the set of entities in dependence on the classification
            parameters.
10     e    Preferably, the requirements characterisation profile is available alongside the raw profile.
       *    Preferably, wherein the constructed requirements characterisation profile can be overridden.
       *    Preferably, wherein the requirements characterisation profile is available in adjustable slider
           format, and preferably raw profile is available in fixed slider, more preferably both in conjunction
           with each other.
15     e   A method of facilitating the recruitment of a job candidate, comprising: receiving job classification
            information; optionally, receiving job context information; determining, in dependence on the job
            classification an initial competency profile; and, optionally, refining the competency profile in
           dependence on the job context information. Preferably, the method further comprises receiving
           and incorporating feedback on the competency profile. Preferably, the method further comprises
20         determining a suitable assessment for assessing potential candidate for competencies in
           accordance with the competency profile.
   Generally, a method and apparatus is provided for the translation of a generic requirements request into a
   specific requirements request based on the probabilistic analysis of historic assessment data of a
25 population of entities matching classification parameters determined from the generic request. The term
   'competency" as used herein may refer generally to any measureable characteristic.
   The invention also provides a computer program and a computer program product for carrying out any of
   the methods described herein, and/or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein, and
30 a computer readable medium having stored thereon a program for carrying out any of the methods
   described herein and/or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein.
   The invention also provides a signal embodying a computer program for carrying out any of the methods
   described herein, and/or for embodying any of the apparatus features described herein, a method of
35 transmitting such a signal, and a computer product having an operating system which supports a
   computer program for carrying out the methods described herein and/or for embodying any of the
   apparatus features described herein.
   The invention extends to methods and/or apparatus substantially as herein described with reference to
40 the accompanying drawings.
   Any feature in one aspect of the invention may be applied to other aspects of the invention, in any
   appropriate combination. In particular, method aspects may be applied apparatus aspects, and vice
   versa.
45
   Furthermore, features implemented in hardware may generally be implemented in software, and vice
   versa. Any reference to software and hardware features herein should be construed accordingly.
                                                         5

   The invention will now be described, purely by way of example, with reference to the accompanying
   drawings, in which:
 5 Figure 1 shows an overview of a system for providing a requirements characterisation profile for an entity;
   Figure 2 shows, in overview, the system in use;
   Figure 3 shows in overview the system as applied in a human resources "job-matching" application;
   Figure 4 shows the process of determining an initial entity characterisation profile;
   Figure 5 shows a flowchart of the system processes;
10 Figure 6 shows the login page presented by the system;
   Figure 7 shows examples of initial user interfaces presented by the system;
   Figure 8 shows an example of an entity classification model;
   Figure 9 shows examples of initial specification description screens;
   Figure 10 shows the "create new job screen";
15 Figure 11 shows examples of context variable input screens;
   Figure 12 shows another overview of the process of competency profile estimation and modification;
   Figures 13 and 14 show an example of the calculation of modified entity characteristics profile;
   Figure 15 shows in tabular form the evolution of characterisation prior probabilities with successive
   iterations;
20 Figure 16 shows in graphical form the evolution of characterisation prior probabilities with successive
   iterations;
   Figure 17 shows an example of a single competency histogram;
   Figure 18 shows an example of a full final entity characteristic (competency) profile;
   Figure 19 shows examples of an entity characteristics profile summary page;
25 Figure 20 to 22 show examples of an interactive profile modification facility;
   Figure 20 shows a Rate competency importance page;
   Figure 21 shows an example of a hover-over / pop-up panel;
   Figure 22 shows the Rate competency importance page with adjustment;
   Figures 23 to 26 show an external profile feedback facility;
30 Figure 23 shows a feedback progress screen, also termed a "Rater status" screen;
   Figure 24 shows the rater landing page;
   Figure 25 shows the rater overview screen;
   Figure 26 shows the final profile review summary page;
   Figure 27 shows the completion status page;
35 Figure 28 shows examples of the job library page;
   Figure 29 shows an illustration of how the relevance of a context variable is determined; and
   Figure 30 shows an example of the selection of assessments and weighting of scores.
   Overview
   Figure 1 shows an overview of an expert system for providing a requirements characterisation profile for
40 an entity.
   The system 1 comprises a server 100 adapted to send and receive data to and from a number of sources
   over a computer network, including a client terminal 102 from which it receives an initial entity
   requirements request and to which it transmits a calculated requirements characterisation profile.
45
                                                        6

   Server 100 provides access to a proprietary database 106 of entity assessment data 108. This data
   comprises the results of entity assessments assembled over many years. Database 106 is also used to
   store calculated requirements characterisation profiles, preferably at various stages of computation and
   moderation.
 5
   The entities data 108 in the database 106 have previously been analysed in terms of characteristics and
   are classified according to classification parameters that allow sets of similar entities to be identified.
   Typically, the entities in the entity database are classified according to a master set of classification
   parameters sufficient in number to allow mapping to a preferred set of classification parameters, such as
10 that obtained from external server 110. Where the externally supplied classification data is of superior
   quality for some fields it may be used to enhance the classification of the entity database 106.
   Server 100 is optionally in communication with moderator terminals 114. Moderators 116 may be
   requested to pass comments, adjust or approve the determined requirements characterisation profile.
15
   Server 100 is also configured to determine suitable assessments to be applied to test candidate entities
   118 according to the calculated requirements characterisation profile.
   In an exemplary embodiment, such a system is used in the field of human resources and facilitates the
20 provision of job descriptions. Database 106 comprises a proprietary data set of competency assessments
   108 derived from the results of approximately 7,000 unique jobs (the number of analyses increasing as
   more data is collected), that have been analysed, placed in the database, and mapped to the occupation
   classification system. Job analysis may be a time-intensive procedure, often requiring several days for a
   skilled analyst to accurately determine the competencies required for carrying out a particular job. The job
25 analyses are classified according to a set of master classification parameters (typically 100 or more)
   which are then mapped to a standard occupation classification.
   For example, O*Net is a job analysis database, which makes use of an occupation classification system
   called "O*Net SOC" to organise its job data. This is a more refined version of the US Government
30 Department of Labor SOC framework, in the sense that at the most detailed level it provides more
   granularity. However, in the "O*Net SOC" does not make use of all the levels of aggregation provided by
   the standard SOC. In this embodiment, a modified classification is used, which uses the granularity
   provided by the O*Net SOC and the full set of aggregations of levels provided by the standard SOC.
35 For example, a typical number of uniquely identifiable occupations at each level may be:
                 e   Level 4: 1171
                 e   Level 3: 449
                 e   Level 2: 96
                 e   Level 1: 23
40
   Database 106 is therefore based on real-world data and allows for identification of the actual relevance of
   the various competencies of workers currently (or previously) in identical or similar jobs.
   Figure 2 shows, in overview, the system in use.
45
        *   Step S1 - User profile requested
                                                        7

   User 104 selects the appropriate entity classification on terminal 102 from a drop down or cascade menu
   200.
         *   Step S2 - Initial profile determined
   Server 100 receives the selected classification from terminal 102 and looks-up entities 108 matching the
 5 classification from the entity database 106. In order to maintain statistical significance, a threshold
   minimum number of entities (dependent on the level of entity classification selected) is required to fall
   within the final classification, else the above classification is used. A representative set of defining
   characteristics is selected as the basis of the entity profile or fingerprint, and the relative proportion of
   entities matching the classification having the characteristic to specific extents is determined, thereby
10 indicating whether each characteristic is - in order of relevance - "essential", "desirable", "relevant" or
   "non-relevant". This results in an initial or starting entity profile, essentially a distribution of the relative
   importance of the various characteristics. The profile is stored in the entity database.
         *   Step S3 - Profile modified (Optional)
   If the user wishes, the entity profile may be subsequently modified. One way of achieving this is by the
15 use of context variables 202, determined by interaction with the user to establish further details of
   relevance. These context variables are used to modify the competency profile by means of Bayesian
   methods. Working with probabilities in this way allows for this new data to be taken into account, whereas
   traditional "frequentist" statistical methods applied to the entity database would be constrained to the
   frequency distribution of the existing data.
20       9   Step S4 - Profile finalised
   The final entity profile relates the relevance of entity characteristics to the initial entity classification, for
   example shown as a histogram 204 detailing for each characteristic whether it is deemed "essential",
   "relevant", "partially relevant" or "not relevant". The profile is stored in the entity database.
25 The process by which an entity profile is calculated from the initial classification and the subsequently
   determined context variables is discussed in more detail below.
   The resulting estimated characteristics profile can be used for example to draw up a specification request
   and subsequently used for matching to possible candidate entities. Alternatively, it can be used to inform
30 further decision making regarding desired entity characteristics. The profile can also be used for
   benchmarking purposes.
   Figure 3 shows in overview the system as applied in a human resources "job-matching" application. The
   steps are analogous to those previously described.
35
         * Step S1 - User profile requested
   The user broadly identifies job from the "standard occupational classification" or SOC code by selecting
   from the options presented at each level of the SOC hierarchy 300 using drop-down menus.
         9   Step S2 - Initial profile determined
40 Job profiles within the chosen occupation classification are looked-up in the database (these typically
   number 30-40, but could range from a minimum of 16 to several thousand) and an occupation profile
   (based on representative competencies) for the selected job classification is calculated. This forms an
   initial occupation profile, detailing which competencies are deemed to be important for the job in question.
         * Step S3 - Profile modified (Optional)
45 Here, the modification process comprises defining the job in more detail 302. The user is asked
   approximately 20 questions (answers to which are selectable from drop-down menus) relating to job and
   the job environment, for example relating to the size of the organisation, specific educational
                                                            8

   requirements etc. The context questions asked are dependent on the occupation that has been selected.
   Analyses have been conducted to determine which set of context questions are most likely to influence
   importance of competencies, for each occupation. This information is used to adjust initial competency
   profile. For example, it may be known from the data that a particular competency, such as initiative, may
 5 be more important in smaller organisations.
       0     Step S4 - Profile finalised
   The resulting profile is a recommendation of relevant competencies for the job.
   In order to maintain statistical significance, a threshold minimum number of jobs is required to fall within
10 the final classification, else the above classification is used. This minimum number of jobs required for the
   selected occupation varies depending on the level of occupation selected. For example, the minimum
   required number of jobs may be:
                  e   Level 4: 40 jobs
15                e   Level3:40jobs
                  e   Level 2: 20 jobs
                  e   Level 1: 16 jobs
   In this embodiment, the user does not have the option to "modify" the profile by first inspecting the initial
20 "prior" profile based on the occupation only, and then providing context variables to adjust the predicted
   profile. Rather, the user is required to provide the occupation code and has the option to provide one or
   more pieces of context information. The user then receives a predicted profile based on the input
   provided.
25 Generally, modification of the profile may refer to any changes the user makes to the profile away from
   the predicted profile. For example, the system may estimate that competency X is "A key part of the job",
   but the user can choose to classify competency X as "Not part of the job".
   The resulting estimated competency profile can be used to draw up a job description and subsequently
30 used for matching to job candidates, for example by identifying the best matched candidates for a job.
   Alternatively, it can be used to inform further decision making regarding the job competencies, for internal
   selection, promotion, succession or outplacement. The profile can also be used for benchmarking
   employees and organisations. The job profiles created could also be used to generate a shortlist of
   behavioural descriptions that can be used within a 360 feedback system.
35
   Figure 4 shows the process of determining an initial entity characterisation profile. A set of entities 406 is
   selected from the entity database 106 based on matching to the cascaded entity classification (higher
   level classifications: 402 and 404) submitted by the user. For each of a set of characteristics (determined
   as those which are most influential), the possible characteristic assessment results are divided into four
40 groups - corresponding to very high (essential) 408, high (relevant) 410, low (partially relevant) 412 and
   very low (not relevant) 414 values - and the fraction of entities determined in each group. This results in a
   probability distribution for each characteristic, indicating from real-world data the significance of the
   particular characteristic for entities known to belong to that classification.
45 Also shown is the use of a context variable 416. Once an occupation has been selected, the number of
   jobs the estimation is based on is the number of jobs in the database mapped to that occupation code.
                                                            9

   This full set of jobs is drawn on for each context variable used. The only exception is rare instances of
   missing data i.e., an analysed job in the database might not provide a value for a context variable).
   A revised conditional probability is calculated for the probability distribution for each characteristic, taking
 5 the factor represented by the value of the context variable into account.
   Figures 5(a) and (b) show a flowchart of the system processes.
   Figure 6 shows the login page presented by the system.
10
   Figures 7(a) and (b) show an initial user interface presented by the system, in this example, for a "job
   matching" application. Various options available to the user (not all are shown) include:
        m   create a new profile 700
15      m   view existing profiles
        m   use an existing profile
        m   modify an existing profile
        m   forward a profile for comments
        m   invite rating of a profile 706
20      m   view available assessments
        m   view assessments recommended for a profile
        m   create a job description
        m   forward a job description to a potential candidate
        "   view candidates
25      m   view assessment completion status 708
        m   buy credits 710
        m   use unused reports 702
        m   use extended reports 704
30 Figure 8 shows an example of an entity classification model. This example is based on the Standard
   Occupational Classification (SOC) model used by the US Department of Labor with additional features
   from the O*NET SOC. The classification model is hierarchical, comprising four main levels of increasing
   specialism:
35      m   Major group 800
        m   Minor group 802
        m   Broad occupation 804
        m   Detailed occupation 806
40 Individual job titles are mapped into the most detailed level - "Job titles" (approximately 1000 in total) 808
   - although in this embodiment this level is not made available to the user. This allows all jobs to be
   classified into generic occupations, as used in the O*Net occupation database. For example, major
   groups (23 in total) comprise the following:
45  11-0000           Management
    13-0000           Business and Financial Operations
    15-0000           Computer and Mathematical
                                                          10

   17-0000          Architecture and Engineering
   19-0000          Life, Physical and Social Science
   21-0000          Community and Social Services
   23-0000          Legal
 5 25-0000          Education, Training and Library
   27-0000          Arts, Design, Entertainment, sports and Media
   29-0000          Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
   31-0000          Healthcare Support
   33-0000          Protective Service
10 35-0000          Food Preparation and Serving
   37-0000          Building and Grounds Cleaning and Maintenance
   39-0000          Personal Care and Service
   41-0000          Sales
   43-0000          Office and Admin Support
15 45-0000          Farming, Fishing and Forestry
   47-0000          Construction and Extraction
   49-0000          Installation, Maintenance and Repair
   51-0000          Production
   53-0000          Transportation and Material Moving
20 55-0000          Military Specific
   The use of SOC is provided as an example of an entity classification model; generally, a hierarchical
   method is useful for quickly finding a job in a library of jobs.
25 Figures 9(a) and (b) show examples of initial specification description screens, in these examples, for a
   "job-matching" application. Standard text input fields allow for job title 900 and description 902 to be input;
   optional job information fields 904 allow for additional text for inclusion in the Job profile report.
   Occupation drop-down menus 906 allow the user to select the correct SOC code. User inputs are saved
   when upon completion the user navigates to the next page, otherwise a warning message reminds the
30 user any data they have input will be lost. The can subsequently return to this page to make additional
   changes.
   Figure 10 shows the "create new job screen".
35 Figures 11(a), (b) and (c) show examples of context variable input screens, in this example, for a "job
   matching" application, allowing additional job information can be input. An array 1100 of approximately
   twenty questions is presented, the answers to which (selected by the user via the drop down menus
    1102) are set as context variables. Responses to these questions are not compulsory. Users can make
   no changes and click 'Create New job' 1104 if they wish to. As the use of context variables may allow for
40 important modification of the initial characteristics profile, this is a charged service.
    In some embodiments, the number of context variables used and/or displayed to the user is determined
   by the system. This may be based, for example, on their relevance and impact for the specific job or job
   category selected. In other words, the system decides which context variables will materially change the
45 competency weightings if they are adjusted (meaning which ones will make a material difference to the
   job) and only displays those to the user.
                                                           11

   For example, in some cases, the user will only see ten context variables for the job they have chosen, as
   the system has calculated that the other twelve do not make any material impact to the competency
   weightings whichever values are chosen. In another example, the user will be presented with twenty
   context variables since they could all have an impact on the competency weightings.
 5
   The advantage lies in not wasting the user's time trying to find information that will have no impact on the
   competency weightings.
   The generic idea is that of identifying the most relevant context variables for an occupation in a data
10 driven manner.
   The user is free to modify the entries and selection on the initial specification description and context
   variable input screens until ready to proceed. Once use of this feature is accepted (by selecting "create
   new job"), a charge unit is deducted (credit allowing) from the user's account.
15
   Figure 12 shows another overview of the process of competency profile estimation and modification, in
   this example, for a "job-matching" application.
        *   At Step 1, the user selects the relevant SOC classification and the system evaluates an initial
20          competency profile, by calculating the fraction of jobs assessed at each competency level. This
            allows for initial statements to be made of the form: "In n% of jobs like yours, competency X is a
            key part of the job".
        *   At Step 2, the user sets a first context variable (in this example "Education" to "... requires a
            college degree"). The system recalculates the competency profile accordingly, taking this context
25          variable into account.
        *   At Step 3, the user sets a further context variable (in this example, "Size of organisation" to
            "1000-2000 employees"). The competency profile is recalculated, taking this further context
            variable into account. The process is repeated for each context variable set.
        *   At the end of the process, a final estimated profile is determined. This final estimated profile is
30          displayed a graphical format, as a histogram 1800 and as a table 1900. A user-editable form may
            also be presented.
   In this embodiment, the user only sees the final profile, as it stands after taking into account the selected
   occupation and any context questions (variables); in alternative embodiments, the effect of each context
35 variable on the profile is shown separately, for example as each context variable is input and its effect
   determined.
   Figures 13 and 14 show an example of the calculation of a modified entity characteristics profile, in this
   example, for a "job-matching" application.
40
   Generally, a single competency is calculated by combining a set of occupation prior probabilities with
   context variable level probabilities, to make new prior probabilities for the next context variable as follows:
        *   Initial profile based on classification
45                o Firstly, the user selects a Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) code to the chosen
                      level of specificity within the SOC hierarchy. A check is made that there are sufficient job
                      profiles (typically sixteen) in the database in the selected class to allow a meaningful
                                                           12

                       calculation to be made; if not, the parent class in the hierarchy is used, and so on until a
                       sufficient number of job profiles are available.
                   o   For a given competency the matching job profiles are split into four competency
                       importance levels that describe how relevant ("Not            relevant", "Partially relevant",
 5                     "Relevant" or "Essential") each competency is to the job profile.
                   o   In the example shown, for the selected occupation of SOC code 17: "Architecture &
                       Engineering", the matching jobs determined from database are broken down by number
                       and proportion of jobs into the competency importance levels for each competency - in
                       the example, the breakdown for          Competency 1.1: "Deciding and Initiating Action" is
10                     shown.
                   o   An occupation prior probability P(A) is calculated for each competency importance level
                       from the number of job profiles within each of these competency importance levels,
                       divided by the total number of jobs in the chosen SOC.
15        .    Modified profile incorporating a first context variable
                   o   To find the importance of a competency importance level given a selected context
                       variable level, the number of job profiles in each context variable level is divided by the
                       total number of jobs in that competency importance level, to give the conditional
                       distribution P(BIA)
20                 o   These importances are then multiplied by the occupation prior probability P(A) to obtain
                       the conditional prior probability distribution P(BIA)P(A).
                   o   When the first context variable level is selected by the user the system divides the
                       conditional distribution prior probability P(BIA)P(A) for the selected context variable level,
                       by the total probability of said context variable level across all competency importance
25                     levels for this competency P(B), to obtain the new occupation prior probability        P(AIB),
                       where from Bayes' theorem:
                  P(BI A) P(A)
     P(A |B)            P(B
                        P(B)
                   o   In the example shown, First context variable (B): "Organisation size"
30        .    Modified profile incorporating a second context variable
                   o   The values of P(AIB) are suitably rounded, and become the occupation prior probability
                       P(A) for the second context variable, and the process repeats itself for said context
                       variable and the following context variables, until the user has selected a context variable
                       level for all context variables.
35                 o   That is, the posterior probabilities from the selected, first context variable level, now
                       become the prior probabilities for the second context variable level, and the process
                       continues as previously. The process iterates until the competencies given all the context
                       variable levels have been evaluated.
                   o   The new occupation prior probability P(AIC), where from Bayes' theorem:
40 40P(A
     P(      C) -P(C IA)P())
                         A) P(A)
                        P(C)
                   o   In the example shown, Second context variable (C): "Education"
     If the value of P(AIB) is zero, the process halts to avoid errors propagating.
                                                              13

   Figure 15 shows in tabular form the evolution of characterisation prior probabilities with successive
   iterations 1500. For the selected Occupation level, the initial occupation profile (defined by the
   probabilities at each of the four competency levels for each of the competencies) is modified in
   successive rows descending the table as successive context variables are taken into account.
 5
   Figure 16 shows in graphical form the evolution of characterisation prior probabilities with successive
   iterations. The effect of taking successive context variables into account can be seen on the four
   competency importance levels, essential 1600, relevant 1602, less relevant 1604 and not relevant 1606,
   evolving from left to right.
10
   Figure 17 shows an example of a single competency histogram. For the competency "Deciding and
   Initiating Action", the four competency importance levels are shown for both the initial predicted
   occupation profile 1700 and the final profile 1702 (as modified by the taking into account context
   variables), indicating that the effect of context variables may be considerable.
15
   Figure 18 shows an example of a full final entity characteristic (competency) profile, displayed as a series
   of histograms 1800 with corresponding key. For each of the separate competencies 1802 the final
   calculated importance probability is shown according to the four levels ("not relevant", "less relevant",
    'relevant" and "essential").
20
   In some embodiments, the user is presented with information about the probabilities of each of the four
   outcome categories together with a statement of the confidence with which the recommendation is made.
   Computation of confidence may be based, for example, on the variance of the four estimated probabilities
   and the number of jobs in the sample that these are based on.
25
   Figures 19(a) and (b) show examples of an entity characteristics profile summary page 1900 - in the
   example shown, for a job matching application, this is a "Competency importance rating: Confirmation
   page". This page is merely to display the summary results (arranged in order of competency importance)
   for confirmation purposes. The user has the option to return to a previous screen to make amendments,
30 to save the job profile and/or print the report 1902 - or alternatively to invite comment on the profile from
   other parties ("raters") 1904.
   Figures 20 to 22 show examples of an interactive profile modification facility.
35 Figure 20 shows a Rate competency importance page. Initially, only the system prediction is displayed on
   a stacked linear layout. Sliders are provided to allow the user to change the competency importance by
   moving the slider 2000 (which is both 'clickable' and 'slideable'). The system prediction remains
   unchanged throughout - as the user moves the slider away from the system prediction both markers will
   appear for that competency row.
40
   Figure 21 shows an example of a hover-over / pop-up panel 2102, triggered by the user placing the
   cursor over and/or clicking a competency icon 2100, revealing additional information about the particular
   competency and explaining how the competency distribution resulted in the determined competency
   importance.
45
   Figures 22(a), (b) and (c) show the Rate competency importance page with adjustment - the user having
   moved the slider 2000. Now both the slider original position (before editing) is shown 2000 and the users
                                                           14

   edited position 2200. A warning message 2202 shows that appears if the user, by his editing, breaks the
   banding rules placed on the system. The banding rule places a certain threshold on the number of sliders
   in any one competency importance level column.
 5 Figures 23 to 26 show an external profile feedback facility. Feedback on the calculated profile may be
   sought from other parties, termed 'reviewers' or 'raters'.
   Figures 23(a) and (b) show a feedback progress screen, also termed a "Rater status" screen for tracking
   'rater' progress - sortable by Name, job and status. Raters 116 can be contacted via email 2300 by the
10 user 104. A (suggested) default email 2304 is provided (optionally editable via a pop-up text box) with the
   name 2300 of the user 104 and containing login details, brief instructions about rating, a link to the site to
   register (if a new user) or log-in (if an existing user) and a link to the job profile requiring their input sent to
   them. A copy of the rater invitation email is sent to the user (job creator). The user is prevented from
   sending invitations and/or reminders to raters that have already responded.
15
   Figure 24 shows the rater landing page, or the screen that will be seen by the 'raters' once they have
   clicked on the link within the email 2204. By clicking on the name of the job 2300, a new window with
   additional information will be brought up.
20 This screen shows the system profile prediction and allows the rater to make their own submission. If the
   Creator has completed the job (and closed all ratings) before the new rater gets the chance to submit
   their rating, the table on this page reflects that the job is closed - so there is no need to continue.
    In some embodiments, the Rater is able to view more information about the job they have been invited to
25 rate, if appropriate - such that, for example, they have enough information to provide a useful rating.
   Figure 25(a) and (b) show the rater overview screen. In addition to the original slider position (before
   editing) 2000 and the user edited position 2200, rater edited slider positions 2500 are marked. On this
   page the user can observe the suggestions of the raters and has the option 2502 of selecting or
30 deselecting which ratings are included on the display.
   The various different rater responses can be displayed for example using different icons 2503, similar
   icons, or identical icons 2504 (as illustrated in Figure 25a). If identical icons are used for all raters, a
   further distinguisher may be displayed with the icon, such as a rater identification number. Optionally,
35 raters may be grouped together in a single icon with a number indicating the number of raters associated
   with the icon 2506 (as illustrated in Figure 25b). The user may be given the option of which icon he would
   like his rating to be displayed with. A warning will appear if the rater, by his editing, breaks the banding
   rules placed on the system. The banding rule places a certain threshold on the number of sliders in any
   one competency importance level column.
40
   All predictions - including the banding rules - are displayed; banding ruling warnings are displayed only
   once the user (Creator or rater) starts moving their slider. Generally, the system prediction remains
   unchanged throughout; as a user or rater moves a slider away from the system prediction, both markers
   will appear for that competency row. If a user or rater makes a change that impact on the banding rules,
45 that column will be highlighted with a warning message.
                                                            15

   For the raters themselves, their view of the profile is similar to that first seen by the user, save they are
   only offered the option to submit a rating and not to invite other raters. On submission of a rating, an
   email is generated and sent to the user (job creator) confirming their submission. The email contains a
   link to the Rater status page. Once a rater submits a rating they are returned to the main system page.
 5
   Figure 26 shows the final profile review summary page. This is the page (only) the user 110 will see once
   all ratings have been received (the screen content builds as more ratings are submitted), and the user
   110 has decided the importance rating for each competency (whilst subject to the banding rules). On this
   page the user has the option of saving and locking down the job profile 2500 or editing it further 2502.
10
   Figure 27 shows the completion status page, where a user can select to download the report as a pdf,
   and also has the option of sending the report to others, via email. Information visible on this page
   includes:
                  o   Credit details
15                o   Number of job scores available
                  o   Number of enhanced reports available
   Checks are done to ensure that enough credit is available for the functions requested - for example,
   when adding an individual (to invite for assessment), downloading an 'enhanced' report etc. A copy of the
20 email invite to individuals is sent to the Job creator / inviter.
   Figure 28(a) and (b) shows the job library page, where the user can observe the current status (Open,
   closed, Completed, In progress, Not started) of all jobs. From this page the user can link to job resources
   that are available.
25
   A job is 'in progress' for example when the user (Creator) has not completed the entire process or during
   the period when the job creator has finalised the competency selection and invited raters to comment.
   In some embodiments, an option is provided for Job owners (Creators) to not only print the job profile, but
30 also to view in read-only form the rater responses for each of the jobs they have created.
   A 'Create new job' function is provided if the user does not find the job they require in their job library,
   In summary, the user of the system described can be simply used to:
35      .    Create a new job profile
        *    Optionally, invite others ('raters') to provide their own rating of the created profile
        *    Review rater feedback, adjust the profile and save it
        *    Invite individuals to take an online assessment to produce a match score against the profile
        *    Optionally, obtain a more detailed 'extended report on however many of these individuals as
40           required.
   In some embodiments, the system - by ensuring they start with a good set of competency requirements
   enables person-job matching to be carried out by relatively unsophisticated users. Having decided on the
   competency requirements, the system will select a set of assessments designed to optimally measure the
45 competencies and provide the means of online administration of these to specified candidates. The
   system then uses a matching algorithm to compare each person's score profile to the competency
                                                             16

   requirements and provides a report to the user on the relative goodness of fit of candidates to the
   position.
   The selection of assessments may be optimised to measure competencies in dependence on the
 5 previously determined competency requirements. A multitude of tests is available to measure a wide
   range of competencies, with specific tests measuring specific competencies or possibly groups of
   competencies. It may not be necessary to subject candidates to broad, exhaustive assessment, but only
   a subset that measures competencies of particular interest. A competency weighting may be associated
   with each competency, according to importance class. For example, only competencies above a pre
10 defined threshold may be used to determine the selection of assessments. All assessments required for
   the selected competencies may be selected.
   Further, an assessment that is appropriate to an essential competency (that is, a competency that is
   above the pre-defined threshold) may also be used to test a non-essential competency. Thus it is
   possible to evaluate competencies that are otherwise not considered sufficiently important to merit
15 dedicated assessment. Alternatively, a combination of assessments that covers the greatest exposure in
   the weighted competencies for a given limited number of assessments may be determined. In this
   manner broad, exhaustive assessment may be avoided, therefore streamlining effort and optimising
   outcome.
20 For evaluating the assessment data derived from the assessments, a weighting scheme may further tailor
   the result to the user's needs. As described above, the assessments provide information regarding the
   competencies that are essential, but they can additionally provide information about further (non
   essential) competencies. By using the assessment data that is available in any event to evaluate further
   competencies, the information extracted may be increased at no additional assessment effort. A score
25 that relates to competencies that are important but not essential can be combined with the scores that
   relate to essential competencies by weighting the scores according to the associated competency
   weighting.    By combining scores of different relevance (as described above) - or otherwise - in the
   preferred embodiments a simple assessment (in the form of a single mark, score or rank) is provided for
   each candidate. This facilitates interpreting the score results, as the result provided to the user could be
30 as simple as a single 'job suitability' score for each candidate.
   Figure 30 illustrates an example of the selection of assessment instruments (typically comprising a series
   of individual assessments or assessment methods/techniques) and interpretation of scores as described
   above. A particular competency 3000 of interest is determined based on whether it has an associated
35 competency weighting above a particular threshold (here: weight 4 out of 4, but in other embodiments
   weight 3 or 4 out of 4). For the particular competency 3000 of interest an assessment instrument 3002 is
   generated that combines a number of individual assessment methods 3004 (here OPQ1, OPQ3 and
   OPQ4 for a first assessment instrument, and OPQ7, OPQ10 and "Verbal skills" for a second assessment
   instrument) that are known to be particularly relevant for determining that particular competency 3000.
40
    In assessing the scores from the assessment methods once the assessments have been undertaken by
   the relevant candidates (and again with reference to Figure 30), it is possible that one assessment
   method 3004 is of greater relevance than another, in which case the scores from the individual
   assessment methods are weighted. In any event, the scores from the individual assessment methods are
45 combined as appropriate to form a competency score. The calculated competency scores are weighted
   using weights 3006 and combined in order to present a single score for the particular candidate. With
   such a system, informed selection of candidates is possible for a user without specialist knowledge about
                                                          17

   each type of assessment, what competencies it evaluates, and how to interpret the results. Instead, the
   user may rely on the system to optimise the assessment process to the user's requirements, and
   evaluate the results in accordance with the user's interests.
 5 In the example shown in Figure 30, some of the assessment methods (here: OPQ1 and OPQ10) are
   appropriate for assessing a further competency 3008 that was not specifically selected for testing (here:
   weight <4). In a variant, the individual assessment methods may be used to determine a competency
   score for the further competency 3008. As for the other competencies one assessment method may be
   of greater relevance than another, in which case the scores from the individual assessment methods are
10 weighted at 3010 and combined as appropriate.
   The system may be integrated in a platform that enables further functionality, for example administration
   of applicants; submission of invitations to candidates to undertake an assessment; administration of
   assessment results; collecting, scoring, evaluating and/or reporting of assessment results; presentation of
15 assessment results; and/or other functions relating to a characterisation profile and potential candidate
   entities.
   Further Features
20 The following relates to commentary on the system described and further features which may be
   included:
       *     In the system, three types of competency importance classifications are distinguished:
             -    Predicted importance: what the Bayesian estimation process has predicted the importance to
25                be.
             -    Rated importance: what a rater of the job has rated the importance of a competency to be
                  (rater could be the "job owner" or an invited rater).
             -     Selected/Final importance: The final importance selected by the job owner for each
                  competency, having taken into account the predicted importance and optionally all instances
30                of "rated importance" by invited raters.
       *     The database stores all types of importance profiles for a job: Predicted importance; Rated
             importance (could be more than one if several raters); Selected/Final importance.
       *     A Multi-rater facility allows other users, specified by the original client, to moderate the
             competency importance levels output by the system, by rating them. The system would then use
35           the multi-rater input (ratings) as data for the second iteration of the Bayesian estimation of the
             profile (starting where job database estimation left off).
       *     The system is "self-learning", with the created competency profiles being fed back into the
             database and used in the estimation of new profiles.
       *     The classification system is based around the standard occupational classification or SOC, but
40           the program has potential to move beyond this framework.
       *     Use of a Universal Competency Framework (UCF) with, for example, 112 competencies or
             alternatively, for example, 93 competencies at the component level. The client competency
             models can be mapped to the UCF, so the profiling process can be used with a client
             model/language which allows for great flexibility.
45     .     Ways in which competency profiles today are determined include conducting analysis of the job
             in question, for example:
                                                           18

               *    Directly measuring the competency profile of the job using Card Sort. This can be
                   quick but is difficult to standardise and validate.
               *    Deriving the competency profile from a detailed task analysis of the job using a Work
                    Profiling System (WPS). However, this is time consuming, needs experts but is
 5                  rigorous, standardised and provides good validity.
               *    Consulting a database of jobs/occupations allows for mapping of, for example, the
                    O*Net job database content to the UCF and the generation of profiles from that. This
                    is simple but relies on quality of job analysis data in O*NET, and relevance of chosen
                    category to actual job - and ignores the strategic use of competencies.
10             e    Most job databases, like O*NET, do not have any job-level data but rely on generic
                   data.
   e Based on thousands of detailed job analyses using the Work Profiling System (WPS). Each job
     analysis can take days to complete but provides the most robust data on which to base
     competency requirements.
15 e WPS has been mapped to the UCF and so component and dimensions level profiles can be
     generated for any job analysed with WPS.
   0 In order to account for every job being different, over 7000 jobs have been mapped to the SOC
     codes used in O*NET. This means it is possible to look at the similarities of the competency
     profiles generated for individual jobs within each job family as defined by SOC.
20 e The importance of a competency is partly a function of the job family and partly a function of
     organizational context.
   0 It is possible bring together the structure (SOC) used for making O*NET practical with the
     richness of the data that has been collected over the years using WPS to underpin the process of
     competency profiling.
25 e Rather than giving the user a 'blank' sheet and then asking the user to pick what the user thinks
     are relevant competencies, the user can be provided with a lot of information about what
     competencies are typically important or not important in his/her jobs/roles.
   0 If that is the starting point, then the users are more likely to end up with a profile of requirements
     that accurately reflects the job: you can build on the foundation of many thousands of job
30   analyses rather than starting from scratch each time.
   * Each new profile is derived from hundreds of previous ones.
   * Map client competency models to UCF, so you can use the system profiling process with client
     model/language.
   e Link to products: products are mapped to competencies, so it is possible to immediately suggest
35   which products to use to assess for the selected competency model.
   * Estimate probability of WPS (job analysis) task items: Can be used as first-draft job description,
     or as a first-cut of which items to respond to in a job analysis survey.
   e Move beyond the OC as the framework users interact with (can still use it behind the scenes).
   * Coverage gaps may be addressed by drawing on O*Net data
40 e In those cases where there is no or insufficient data in the WPS database, competency
     requirements can therefore be generated from equations that relate UCF (or other competency
     model) to O*NET variables.
   e Bayesian methods may also be used to combine data from various sources - WPS job data;
     O*NET job data; date from users of the system - and suitably weight the value of the different
45   sources of data.
                                                      19

       e    Users may also use the system to create and rate jobs, and combine jobs created by these
            different users (for example users from the same organisation) into an integrated set of jobs. In
            other words, uber jobs or requirements may be made out of smaller completed sessions.
       e    (Quick) Registration page
 5               e   Pre-populated with the details input by the job creator - the (new) rater just has to
                     validate them
                 e   User inputs more detail, creates a password and submits their registration
                 e   The system generates a verification email that contains a link to the registration page (so
                     they can log in)
10     e    Rater registration page
                 e   On receipt of the verification email the user clicks to go back to the registration page
                     and complete the registration process - AND upon registration be directed straight to the
                     Rater landing page.
       e    Buying page / basket
15               e   Allows buying of Job profiles, job scores, enhanced reports.
                 0   All three items listed as available to purchase - User adds whatever quantity of each they
                     require.
                 0   Checkout page - allows a user to us existing process for checking-out once the items
                     have been added to the basket; payment on account or via credit card.
20               e   A confirmation email is sent to the Job creator once the credits have been purchased (as
                     per existing process).
      *     One example of how to determine whether a context variable is deemed "relevant", is to make
            use of Kendall's Tau-C statistic, which indicates how strong the relationship is between two
25          categorical variables (such as a context variable with, for example, 5 levels versus a competency
            variable with 4 importance levels). The Kendall's Tau-C value is between 0 and 1.
   The following steps are taken:
                 e   The Kendall's Tau-C statistic is calculated for each combination of SOC occupation X
30                   Context Variable X UCF competency. For example, this statistic may be calculates for
                     the relationship between the context variable "Level of Education" and competency
                     "Deciding and Initiating Action" for the SOC occupation "Marketing Managers". For the
                     same SOC occupation, the Kendall Tau-C metric is continued to be calculated for all
                     combinations of Context Variables X Competencies (21             Context variables X 20
35                   Competencies).
                 e   These analyses are repeated for all SOC occupations at all four SOC levels.
                 "   Some cut-points are then used to determine how large the Kendall's Tau-C value needs
                     to be for a relationship to be considered important and how many competencies a
                     context variable needs to have a meaningful association with for the context variable to
40                   be included, for example:
                          -   Minimum Kendall Tau-C cut-point: 0.1
                          -   "Substantial effect" Kendall Tau-C cut-point: 0.2
                          -   Minimum number of competencies affected with at least minimum Kendall Tau-C
                              value: 4
45               e   Decision rule on which context variables "matter" for one SOC occupation. Variable
                     included if it
                          -   affects at least 4 competencies with a Kendall value more than 0.1
                                                           20

                           -   affects ANY competency with a Kendall value more than 0.2
   In this embodiment, these current analyses are only conducted on the UCF20 competency model; the
   same or similar analyses may also be run on other competency models. In alternative embodiments,
 5 context variable relevance may be determined using different cut-points - or different methods altogether.
   These procedures may be re-run periodically as more data is added to the job database, as the
   determination of which context variables are most relevant will become increasingly accurate as data is
   accumulated.
10
   Figure 29 shows an illustration of how the relevance of a context variable is determined, in the form of the
   calculation for one SOC occupation. Shaded boxes 2900 indicate a likely relationship between
   competency and context variable (i.e., that the importance of competency varies with the levels of the
   context variable).
15
       .    Occupation-dependent context questions: The set of job context questions that are asked of the
            user (and that form part of the input into the Bayesian estimation procedure) are dependent on
            the occupation code selected by the user for the job. A piece of analysis has been conducted to
            determine, for each occupation code (at each of the four levels), which set of WPS-based context
20          questions are most likely to be informative about the predicted importance of competencies. This
            ensures that the user is less likely to have to respond to context questions that will not make a
            material difference to the estimated competency profile.
       *    Competency task statements: For each of the competencies, a short matched "task statement"
            has been written that illustrates the task/activity context where the competency will tend to be
25          required. For example, for the competency "Deciding and Initiating Action", the matched task
            statement is "The job requires making decisions and taking responsibility for them. Typically it will
            involve making tough choices based on careful consideration of risks, taking responsibility for
            such decisions, or taking action on one's own initiative". The intention of these task statements is
            to illustrate the competencies in task/activity terms, rather than in terms of personal requirements.
30          If users think of the competency constructs in terms of what activities are actually required in the
            job rather than which personal qualities they would like to see in job holders, they are more likely
            to accurately judge the importance of the competency constructs.
       *    Task/activity oriented rating scale: This is related to the previous point. The rating scale on which
            the users are asked to indicate how important each competency is to the job is task/activity
35          oriented. This contrasts with the personal requirements oriented rating scale ("Essential",
            "Relevant", "Less Relevant", "Not Relevant") that tends to be used. The final competency profile
            can still be phrased in personal requirements terms using logic such as "because this
            competency is a defining part of the job, it is essential that job holders are good at this
            competency". The task/activity rating scale is as follows:
40                o   "Not part of the job": These activities are not part of the job.    If a job holder performs
                      these activities poorly, there is no risk that the overall objectives of the job will not be
                      reached."
                  o   "A minor part of the job": These activities are not important to the essence of the job. The
                      job role would remain the same even if these activities were excluded.         If a job holder
45                    performs these activities poorly, there is a small risk that the overall objectives of the job
                      will not be reached."
                                                           21

                 o   "A significant part of the job": These activities are important to the essence of the job. If
                     several of these activities were excluded from the job role, this would be a completely
                     different job. If a job holder performs these activities poorly, these is a substantial risk
                     that the overall objectives of the job will not be reached."
 5               o   "A defining part of the job": These activities are key to the essence of the job. If any of
                     these activities were excluded from the job role, this would be a completely different job.
                     If a job holder performs these activities poorly, it is almost certain that the overall
                     objectives of the job will not be reached."
10 Alternative embodiments may implement some or all of the following features:
       *    Link the predicted competency profile to a large catalogue of assessments, which in turn is linked
            to a meta-analysis database of validation evidence. When combined, this provides the
            functionality to predict the competency requirements are for a job, to recommend which
15          assessments would be optimal to assess individuals in terms of their potential to match the
            requirements of the job, and to predict the level of validity to expect if the recommended
            assessments were used to assess for the job.
       *    Predict probability of (WPS) task items: Using the same Bayesian estimation process used for
            estimating competencies (with the same inputs: occupation code and context variables), instead
20          the probability of WPS task items are estimated (examples of such items are "Scanning written
            information",    "Creating    appealing    presentations",    "Cataloguing  material".   In essence,
            competencies are swapped out for WPS task items as the dependent variable of the estimation.
            This is possible because the jobs in our WPS              job database contain information on both
            competency importance scores as well as ratings of importance of hundreds of specific tasks.
25          There are several possible applications of such estimated task importances:
                 o   Create a first-draft task-based job description: The competency estimation process helps
                     a user specify the competencies required of a person doing a job. Estimating task
                     importances would help the user list the specific, detailed activities the job holder would
                     need to perform.
30               o   Create a first-draft of a job analysis survey: The task items predicted as most likely to be
                     important could be used to construct a job analysis survey where job stakeholders are
                     asked to directly rate the importance of each item for a job. This contrasts with scenarios
                     where such stakeholders would have to rate a larger volume of tasks where many such
                     tasks are unlikely to be relevant for the job.
35               o   Shortened WPS process: The process for conducting a full WPS job analysis process
                     requires an initial phase where the set of WPS task items to be responded to are
                     narrowed down by, first, selecting the appropriate version of WPS for administration, and
                     second, conducting a card-sort to determine which questions within the selected version
                     to respond to. Drawing on a set of items with estimated importances could bypass these
40                   two steps.
       *    Run estimation procedure for client competency models: Functionality can be designed where a
            client competency model is mapped to the models in the estimation system, and predictions can
            be generated and reported directly into the language of the client competency model.
45 The following table shows examples of "user stories", illustrating potential uses of (and further information
   relating to) the described system, to be understood in the format "As a ... I want .so      that ..
                                                           22

Domain     Summary              As a...  I want ...                     so that ...
Candidate  End user meta        User    To get a rank ordered list of   I can make a rapid and
assessme   story                        my candidates in terms of how   reliable hiring decision,
nt                                      likely they are to succeed in   making sure I get the
                                        the job                         right person at the right
                                                                        time in the right role
Registrati User authentication  User    to be able to access job        I do not have to have
on                                      profiling tool via my Central   separate passwords and
                                        login                           user id's
New job    Create job record    User    to be able to create a job      I can easily find the job
profile                                 record including a name and     again
creation                                description
[1]
New job    Select based job     User    to be able to select the 'base' I have to answer as few
profile                                 job that my job profile will be questions as possible to
creation                                based on                        create my
[2]                                                                     recommended job
                                                                        profile
New job    Variable number of   User    to have to answer only          I don't waste time
profile    'context variable            relevant context variable       answering questions
creation   questions'                   questions based on the job      that are irrelevant
                                        that I have selected from the
                                        static list
New job    Descriptions of      Product to show users some additional   users are more likely to
profile    context questions    Owner   information about the context   respond consistently
creation                                variable questions - to put the
                                        context variable questions into
                                        context!
New job    Display predicted    User    to see the predicted            I am able to review them
profile    competency                   competency importance
creation   importance                   ratings (UCF20) for my job
[3]                                     once I have entered my
                                        responses to the context
                                        variables
New job    Display certainty of Product to be able to tell users how    users can understand
profile    predicted            Owner   sure we are in the competency   how comfortable they
creation   importance ratings           importance prediction that we   should feel in making
                                        make                            changes to the
                                                                        predictions
New job    Save changes to      User    to save the importance ratings  I either accept all
profile    predicted                    once I have reviewed them       predictions (having
creation   importance ratings                                           reviewed them) or save
[4]                                                                     the changes that I have
                                                                        made to predictions
Additional Review multiple      User    to be able to see other job     I can make final
Ratings    ratings                      rater views on the competency   decisions on the profile
[5]                                     profile alongside mine          that will be used to
                                             23

                                                                          assess candidates
Report    Printable/saveable  User     to be able to print or save a       I have a physical record
generatio job                          document that shows the job        of the job profile
n         profile/description          profile I have created
          document                     (including some standard
                                       area's for me to enter further
                                       information)
Candidate assessment          User     the job profiling tool to           I do not have to be an
assessme  recommendations              recommend the assessments          expert to use the tool
nt                                     that my candidates should
                                       complete based on the final
                                       job profile
Candidate  Invite candidates  User     be able to enter candidate          my candidates are
assessme                               names and email addresses          assessed
nt
[6]
New job   User job library    User     to be able to browse all jobs I     I can easily access
profile                                have previously created on the     previously created jobs,
creation                               system                             and either edit the job,
[7]                                                                       invite candidates to
                                                                          assess against them, or
                                                                          clone them as a basis
                                                                          for a new job.
New job   Organisation job    User     to be able to access a list of all  I can select a relevant
profile   library                      jobs created in my                 existing job for editing,
creation                               organisation by myself or other    cloning, or assessing
                                       users from my organisation         candidates, or
                                                                          inspect/build
                                                                          relationships between
                                                                          jobs in my organisation
New job   Associate job with  User     to make sure a new job is          we can keep track of
profile   organisation                 automatically associated with      which jobs from the
creation                               the organisation the job owner     same organisation that
                                       belongs to                         have been created on
                                                                          the system
Overall   Create new          Central  to be able to register new         so that the job owner
system    organisation        Administ organisations on the system        users can be associated
                              rator                                       with the organisation
                                                                          they belong to
Overall   Associate user with Central  to be able to associate a job      the organisation context
system    an organisation     Administ owner user with an                 of a user is available
                              rator    organisation                       when the users creates
                                                                          new jobs
                                            24

Design     Extensible          Product  the backend architecture of the    so that I can easily
           architecture        Owner    application to be flexible,        extend the functionality
                                        modular and extensible             the profiling system
                                                                           exposes
Data       Access to job       Product  easy direct query access to all     I can pull out job
Extract    database            Owner    aspects of the SQL database        information to enhance
[8]                                     where job and usage data is        and improve the job
                                        being stored                       database underpinning
                                                                           the application
Registrati Register new        User     to enable the system to            job profiling activities
on         external user                register a new external user on    can be performed on
[9]                                     the profiling system               behalf of the external
                                                                           user
Data       Get list of         Central  to be able to get a list of all     I can review and
Extract    registered external Administ external users from my             manage the users that
           users               rator    integrator user account that       have been registered
                                        have been registered on the
                                        profiling system
Overall    Get list of         Central  to be able to get a list of all    so that I can review and
system     registered external Administ external users from a specified    manage the registered
           users from an       rator    organisation that have been        external users
           organisation                 registered on the profiling
                                        system with my integrator user
                                        account
Data       Get all             Central  to get a list of all organisations so that I can review and
Extract    organisations       Administ that have been registered to       manage the
           registered to       rator    the integrator account on the      organisations my users
           integrator account           profiling system                   are located within and
                                                                           are using on the system
New job    Get list of jobs in User     to get a list of all jobs           I can check whether the
profile    organisation                 registered to my organisation      job I am profiling has
creation                                                                   been profiled before by
                                                                           someone else, or I can
                                                                           find a job that is similar
                                                                           to the job I want to
                                                                           profile, and I can use it
                                                                           as a template
New job    Get jobs that are   User     to be able to get a list of jobs    I can review the job
profile    hierarchical child           that are hierarchical child jobs   content and competency
creation   jobs of a specified          of a specified job (i.e., that     requirements of jobs at
           job                          report to the specified job)       different reporting lines
                                                                           and levels in relation to
                                                                           each other
New job    Set parent job      User     to be able to set the parent job    I can manage the
profile                                 of a specified job                  hierarchical
creation                                                                    relationships between
                                                                           jobs
                                            25

Data       Access to ALL job      Central  to be able to access details of  Assist with customer
Extract    profiles               Administ ALL Job profiles created in the  enquiries etc....
                                  rator    system
Data       Ability to extract job Central  to be able to extract all Job     I can use the information
Extract    profiles from the      Administ profile details at any time from to update the database
           system                 rator    the system                       of job profile information
                                                                            - so that it is kept
                                                                            constantly up to date
Additional option to exclude      User     to be able to exclude certain     I can focus on specific
Ratings    some ratings                    raters importance rating scores  importance ratings that
[10]                                       from the summary page view       are not skewed by any
                                                                            one individual rater
Additional New rater viewing      Invited  contributors will not have        I can add my own
Ratings    job profile being      rater    access to Screen1 and Screen     ratings to each of the
           created                         2, but Job Name and Job          competencies
                                           Description to be displayed in
                                           all Screens (except for Screen
                                           1); and to view the summary
                                           details with predicted
                                           competencies importances
                                           provided by the system but
                                           NOT any ratings submitted by
                                           other invited raters
Additional Submit competency      Invited  Add my competency                The role profile created
Ratings    ratings                rater    importance ratings to the Job    can include feedback
[11]                                       profile being created            from a number of
                                                                            different people involved
                                                                            in the role
Overall    Prevention of          Product  to be able to prevent the        Users cannot abuse the
system     amendment of           Owner    amendment of existing Job        system, simply
           existing job profiles           profiles                         amending existing
                                                                            profiles rather than
                                                                            creating new ones each
                                                                            time
Data       Access to usage        Product  to have access to usage           I can track the success
Extract    details and            Owner    statistics (number of profiles,  of the solution
           statistics                      reports, assessed candidates
                                           etc......)
Overall    Future proofing to     Product  to have the solution future      When the third party /
system     include third party    Owner    proofed to incorporate third     UCF mapping has been
           tests                           party tests and assessments      completed, more tests
                                                                            and assessments can
                                                                            be offered as part of the
                                                                            assessment process
                                                26

Candidate  Use Candidate         Product  to use the existing candidate     there is a consistent
assessme   management            Owner    management functionality          solution offered to
nt         process                        already available to manage       customers
                                          the assessment process
New job    No effect from        Product  to have updates made to the       Role profiles that have
profile    underlying            Owner    underlying database, but not      been created remain
creation   database updates               have these updates affecting      valid and can be
[12]                                      any Role profiles that have       referenced by users at
                                          been created and Saved.           any time after their
                                                                            creation (even if the
                                                                            profile would be likely to
                                                                            change if it were
                                                                            recreated, due to the
                                                                            updates to the
                                                                            database).
Registrati Granting access to    Central  Review the users' application     I can make a decision
on         Central               Administ and access information about      as to whether to grant
                                 rator    the individual                    them access to Central
Registrati Approval of Central   Central  to approve or reject a user's     I can give access or
on         access                Administ application and send              deny them access and
                                 rator    notification email                notify them
                                                                            automatically of the
                                                                            decision and impact
                                                                            thereof
Candidate  Comparison of         User     to be able to compare             I can make a direct
assessme   candidates at                  candidates that have been         comparison of
nt         different times                assessed against the same         candidates over time
[13]                                      role at very different times -    (OR include additional
                                          AND also be able to               candidates at any time
                                          distinguish between different     during the assessment
                                          groups of candidates that have    process)
                                          been assessed against the
                                          same role profile at different
                                          times.
Additional Pre-identification of User     to be able to invite raters -     they can rate the job
Ratings    invited raters                 invite them using an email with   profile I am creating
[14]                                      a unique URL that will take
                                          them straight to the registration
                                          page then contributor's landing
                                          page
                                               27

New job    Option to choose      User to not have to pick from all 4 of the process is a simple
profile    from drop down             the drop down lists - put as a    as possible. One
creation   boxes                      minimum I must select from        selection MUST be
[15]                                  box 1                             made to ensure that the
                                                                        a high level competency
                                                                        selection can be made
Overall    Class leading ease    User once I have selected the Job      the Job Profiler is easy
system     of use - for ALL           Profiler option to view a         to access and simple to
           screens                    simple, easy to understand,       use.
                                      uncluttered landing screen
New job    View competency       User to view ALL the competencies      the competency review
profile    summary                    on one page - All 20 of them.     and amendment
creation                              The predetermined importance      process is as simple as
                                      rating for each one of the        possible
                                      competencies will be pre-filled
                                      and the user must have the
                                      option to click on any one of
                                      the other imp ratings as
                                      required. SCREEN could
Additional Invitations to raters User to have NO restriction on the     I can invite raters
Ratings                               number of people I can invite
[16]                                  to rate the role profile I have
                                      created, have fields available
                                      to input: - Rater name, email
                                      address, relationship to me (by
                                      choosing from a drop down list
                                      of options),
Additional Slider functionality  User Slider functionality for          I can finalise the job
Ratings    on screen 3                Creator/Rater to rate             profile immediately
                                      competencies. It should also
                                      display predictions
Candidate  Generating PJM        User to have the option to generate    I can see more detail for
assessme   reports                    a PJM report for any number       any one of the
nt                                    of the candidates assessed        candidates at any time
[17]
General    Ease of               User to know exactly where I am in     I am clear as to how
screen     understanding the          the Job Profile Creation          many steps there are in
navigation creation process           process - perhaps using a         the process - and how
           and screen flow            STEP process, highlighting at     many of them I have
                                      the top of the web page what      completed
                                      steps there are and which
                                      have been completed.
                                           28

New job    Making             User    to be able to go back and           I can correct any errors I
profile    amendments to role         amend details I have               believe I have made
creation   profiles                   submitted when creating a new      AFTER the event
[18]                                  role profile - BEFORE I have
                                      saved the role profile
Candidate  Track assessment   User    to be able to track progress of     I can see what's going
assessme   progress                   candidates being assessed          on with the assessment
nt
Candidate  Chasing candidates User    to be able to chase candidates      I can control the
assessme                              (if required) that are involved in assessment project
nt                                    the assessment
Individual Candidate          User    Create a job profile and assess     I don't have to ask
Store      assessment against         against that role with pre-        candidates to sit the
[19]       multiple roles             existing test and assessment       same assessments
                                      results - i.e. Be able to assess   numerous times.
                                      ONE candidate against a
                                      number of different roles
                                      (providing the minimum
                                      assessment requirements are
                                      met)
Overall    Data Protection    Product The Data Protection Notice for      I can keep the system
system     Notice content     Owner   ALL users (Role creators and       up to date with the latest
                                      role raters) to include            information captured
                                      permissions that allow for the
                                      data submitted to be used to
                                      update the underlying
                                      database.
New job    Cloning options    User    when cloning a job profile to be    it is easy for me to
profile                               able to view ALL the inputs        create a new role that is
creation                              previously made for the job        very similar to an
                                      profile AND be able to make        existing role on the
                                      amends to any of the inputs I      system
                                      wish to. In addition, I would
                                      want to be able to change the
                                      name of the Job profile (this
                                      information would
Candidate  Report options     User    The 'purpose' of an activity       it is as uncomplicated as
assessme   available                  should be determined once a        possible for untrained
nt                                    User has confirmed that they       users to get what they
                                      wish to assess against a job       want from the system.
                                      profile they have created.
                                           29

Additional  Inclusion of a    Invited to have the option to include      I can let the job creator
Ratings    comments field for rater   comments when I add my            know anything else that
[20]       raters                     ratings for a certain job profile  I feel is relevant to the
                                                                        job profiles being
                                                                        created.
Additional Multiple ratings   Invited to be able to complete ratings    the rating process for
Ratings                       rater   for all the profiles I have been  multiple profiles is as
                                      asked to rate in one go - i.e.    painless as possible.
                                      not have to use the link from
                                      each of the separate emails I
                                      have been sent
Additional Landing page for   Invited to be directed from the email I    I can submit the best
Ratings    invited raters     rater   receive inviting me to rate to a  rating possible.
                                      landing page that offers me
                                      instructions and information on
                                      what is required of me / things
                                      to consider etc..
Additional Resend email       User    to have the option to RESEND      any raters that say that
Ratings    functionality              any rater invites                 have not received the
                                                                        email with the unique
                                                                        link can receive it and
                                                                        then go on and rate the
                                                                        job profile
Candidate  Request additional User    to have the option to order        I can view a more
assessme   reports                    additional (more detailed)        detailed report ONLY for
nt                                    reports by using the links on     those individuals that I
                                      the 'Completion Status' page      need to / want to....
Candidate  Select purpose for User    once I have chosen OR             Once I have chosen the
assessme   candidate                  created a role profile to choose  reason for the
nt         assessment                 an option to assess candidates    assessment it pre
                                      and then be taken to a screen     populates the screen
                                      where I select the purpose of     where I complete all the
                                      the assessment (from              individuals' details
                                      Selection OR Development)
New job    Making             User    to have the ability to make       for example, I can stop
profile    amendments to              amendments to competency          half way through
creation   competency                 estimation input parameters -     creation of a profile and
[21]       estimation input           BEFORE user requests the          come back to it at a later
           parameters -               benchmark (in Screen 3)           time to complete and
           BEFORE user                                                  SAVE the profile
           requests the
           benchmark (in
           Screen 3)
                                           30

New job  Banding rules for   Product to ensure that there are limits  we don't have situations
profile  competencies        Owner   to how many competencies         where too many
creation ensure that there           that can be classified into each competencies are
         are limits to how           importance band                  classified into the higher
         many                                                         importance bands
         competencies can
         be classified into
         each importance
         band
Implemen Developer           Impleme it could be integrated with the
t WSI OD                     nt WSI  front end screens at a later
back-end                     OD      date
                             back
                             end for
                             JPT
System
Testing
UAT
Support
New job  Saving inputs when  User    To be able to submit             ....... should I move
profile  creating or cloning         responses to the additional      away from that page
creation a new job                   (context variable) questions     and come back to it, the
                                     and for those responses to be    responses I gave
                                     saved in the database. This      previously are still
                                     means that I can go between      available for me to view
                                     screens and not lose any of      / amend.
                                     the responses I have input to
                                     either of the screens. In
                                     addition, if I am cloning a job
                                     BUT I choose to change the
                                     original foundation job (new
                                     SOC code) the system will
                                     return the results from the
                                     'supplementary' questions that
                                     are consistent across the two
                                     different roles being
                                     considered. Any previously
                                     submitted responses that are
                                     not relevant to the new job
                                     being created (from the
                                     cloned job) will be deleted so
                                     that they have no impact on
                                     the new job.
                                          31

New job  There is a            User     to be able to input the level of The 'system' can make
profile  requirement to ask             the job I am creating. This      the correct selection of
creation the Job creator to             input will be by choosing the    which Verify level (etc.)
         explicitly state what          appropriate option from a drop   to include as part of the
         level of job they are          down list.                       assessment suite to
         looking to define /                                             create the job score.
         profile.
Overall  System needs to be    User     to be able to use the system in  The service can be used
system   localised rather               a language and more technical    with no issues outside of
         than just translated           terms that are familiar to me.   the UK.
                                        (e.g. US$ referenced and not
                                        UKE). There is also the issue
                                        of payment currency to
                                        address, but this can be picked
                                        up at a later date.
Overall  System Admins         Administ To be able to help users by      Customers that make
system   (working on           rator    having access to everything      mistakes/errors when
         Helpdesk) need to              they can do on their system      using the system have a
         have access to                 and make changes even when       support mechanism that
         make changes to                they are not able to.            they can use - that can
         any user inputs as                                              actually help them.
         required.
New job  Original rater        User     To have my first rating          In future analysis of job
profile  (Creator)                      submission saved, just as it is  creator behaviour can
creation submission is                  for all other raters. Any        be analysed - how
         saved, not just                changes I make when finally      frequently do raters
         overwritten when               confirming the job profile WILL  change their submission
         the FINAL profile is           NOT overwrite my original        based on the responses
         confirmed.                     rating submission, but will be   of other raters for
                                        saved separately.                example.....
                                             32

Data     Offers the user the   User to be able to extract details of existing clients with their
Extract  opportunity to carry       the job I have just created      own systems and are
         out two distinct           using a format that can be       able to use the Job
         tasks: Profile a           used in other systems            profiler and then take
         specific job AND           (primarily xml format that can   the results and use them
         use the   job profile      be uploaded).                    on their own system.
         created to assess
         candidates against
         (and generate a job
         match score).
         There is a need to
         be able to extract
         the full details of
         the job profile
         created from the
         Central system in
         order that it could
         be used elsewhere
         - notably with the
         PJM functionality
         directly.
New job  Need to input         User To be able to input the          The information
profile  additional                 following information:           captured can be
creation information about          Organisation, Department,        included in the Job
         the job being              Location                         matching competency
         created - so that                                           report
         the information is
         available in the Job
         profile report
                                         33

New job  When the             User to be able to see clearly which  I can create a focused
profile  prediction is             competencies I should focus     job profile as efficiently
creation returned back to          my efforts on based on the      as possible,
         the Job creator it        predictions that are least      concentrating my efforts
         should be possible        certain as highlighted to me.   on those areas where
         to highlight those                                        they are most required.
         competencies
         where the system is
         'less certain' about
         the Importance
         ranking prediction
         we have made. All
         details of the
         prediction are
         available from the
         graphical display
         that is accessed by
         clicking on the
         competency name,
         but it should also
         be possible to
         highlight to users
         where the
         prediction is less
         certain (perhaps
         limited to 3
         competencies we
         are LEAST certain
         about)
New job  Require the options  User to VERY easily navigate the      I can save time with my
profile  offered in the 4          job list options to be able to  job selection - improving
creation drop down                 find the best match as simply   the overall process for
         selection boxes to        as possible.                    me.
         be as easy to
         understand and
         navigate as
         possible
                                        34

  New job        Need to be able to      User      to have the option of choosing      I can save time with my
  profile        offer the Creator                 from a list of jobs that are       job selection - improving
  creation       the option of                     chosen by users most often         the overall process for
                 choosing from a                   AS WELL AS being able to           me.
                 summary list of                   choose from the drop down
                 'Most popular' job                lists available to me.
                 titles - to make the
                 job name selection
                 process quicker
                 and more
                 straightforward
  New job        to have a Job
  profile        Hierarchy in the                  to have a Job Hierarchy in the
  creation       Job Profile page        User      Job Profile page
Notes on the above table are as follows:
[1]      1. Create a job table in database
         2. Create a stored procedure to save jobs in database
         3. Create a job controller with methods
         4. Create a job view
[2]      Once this selection has been made and the user clicks NEXT to navigate to the next page
         (Context variable questions) the charge occurs and the user cannot make any change to the
         previous choices - only changes to the subsequent pages.
[3]      1. Call Estimation Engine
         2. Populate UI from Estimation Engine
         3. Allow users to select competency importance
[4]      Saving the ratings you have agreed will mean in effect that you have SAVED the profile as a
         whole. NO changes possible after this point.
[5]      Display ratings from multiple raters (and predictions)
[6]      Using the existing 'Completion Status' page, need the following fields to complete / view:
         Purpose of assessment (Selection OR development)
         Email address
         First name
         Last name
         Title
         (optionally) Language (will determine what language the individual is first offered for assessment)
         Gender
         (optionally) Product
         Job Name
         Status
         PJM score
         NEW (view only)
         OPTION to order additional reports
                                                        35

[7]  Task 1 is the tabular view of jobs with the action options available etc. Task 2 is a tree / org view
     of jobs crated (To be completed in future iteration - TBC)
[8]   Need to be able to gain access to the underlying data in the system AND be able to update it - but
     this should all go through the existing protocols. No special access to the database is expected.
[9]  Access to the Job profiler functionality is 'free' to all Central users, so this requirement is already
     available as part of the general Central functionality.
[10] view 2 - display ratings from multiple raters (+ predictions)
[11] view - creator - view summary; Lock the profile & proceed to job library (to print Job profile);
      Invite raters; ; back button - 0.5 pd
       view2 - rator - view summary; Lock the profile & Submit ratings (it will take them
     to the landing page); back button - 0.5 pd
[12]  Profile created remains fixed, so that there is a constant record of the Job profile created on the
     system. If users wish to take advantage of system updates they have to create a new profile
     which may or may not be different from one created with the same input parameters as before the
     update was carried out.
[13]  No candidate grouping
     Any review of candidates that have been assessed will be carried out using the filters available on
     the system (ie. Sort results by date etc - then individuals can then be compared. No other facility
     is required.
[14] All raters must register before taken to the landing page.
[15]  1. Create tables for occupations with foreign keys, etc.
     2. Create a stored procedure to read the list of occupations
     3. Add new methods to the job controller to retrieve the list of all occupations and save it into the
     cache
     4. Add 4 new drop down lists to the job view to display occupations
     5. On selection change update sub-occupations by querying the cache with LINQ
[16]  Must include details of suggested number of raters etc. in the HELP text on the page - but have
     no system restrictions.
     This is the Invite Rater screen story. Estimates updated to 5 pds.
     Task1 - Sorting and Filtering
     Task2 - Invitation Links
     Task3 - pagination
     Task4 - Add buttons for Invite & Resend for each rater and each job
     Task5 - Customise email link
[17]  no selection drop-down, just additional button on Completion status page
[18] Once a job profile is finally submitted, all screens become read only. If user decided to lock down
     the ratings and generate report, then the contributor who had not completed the ratings will not be
     able to do it and get error.
[19]  Individual store
     Assessments against roles always start with the role and then lead on to the assessment (rather
     than the other way round). Expected that when details are input in the 'invite individuals' section
     that there is recognition if the individual is already 'in the system' - the role new role profile can
     then be assessed against the results that have already been used.
      For the same candidate is assessed for 2 jobs, the scores for job 1 will affect the scores for job 2
[20] Just one free form text field - OPTIONAL for raters to submit any comments
                                                        36

   [21]    Only following 2 things that are allowed to be changed are
           SOC codes
           Context Variable
   The application responds to the growing need for organisations to have real confidence in matching the
   right people to the right jobs, so that they perform to their highest potential. The system provides:
        *   a quick, easy and highly reliable means of measuring the fit, or match of an individual's
 5          competencies and potential, with the specific competency set required for a particular job.
        *   a robust way of creating a competency based job description for a specific job, and then
            assessing the degree of people's competency match with that job, providing an overall view of an
            individuals' fit to a specific role and can be used in both a selection and development context.
        *   a straightforward online step-by-step process, designed for use by line managers at any level in
10          any organisation, not only by trained HR professionals.
        *   the job analysis and specification on over 7,000 jobs.
        *   Four main steps, each one completed online:
                 1.  Define the job to be assessed for either recruitment or development by creating the job
                     description with an easy-to-use, automated job description / competency builder.
15               2.  The job description / competency builder is based on more than 7,000 jobs mapped to
                     the SHL Universal Competency Framework.
                 3.  You then have an option to share the draft job description with other stakeholders,
                     inviting them for their input, which you can then consolidate into one overall job view,
                     making changes to the final job description if you wish before locking it down.
20               4.  Once the job description has been locked down, you then invite individuals to sit a couple
                     of assessments, determined by the solution and tailored to best predict the competencies
                     included in the job description. This results in a score and report showing how closely an
                     individual fits the competency requirements specific to that job.
        *   There is also an optional, more detailed "plus' report, giving you a bespoke interview guide
25          specifically designed to help you explore that individual's stronger or weaker areas of fit to the
            job.
   It will be understood that the invention has been described above purely by way of example, and
   modifications of detail can be made within the scope of the invention. For example, in the case of
30 requesting replacement machine parts, this could be achieved by the method as described earlier,
   mutatis mutandis.      In such a method, the classification parameters of the present invention might for
   example be a description and/or function of the particular desired machine part, and the characterisation
   parameters might be properties of a potential replacement, with the requirements characterisation profile
   describing a potential replacement, constructed by posing suitably crafted questions to the person
35 requesting the replacement machine parts based on the characterisation parameters.
   Each feature disclosed in the description, and (where appropriate) the claims and drawings may be
   provided independently or in any appropriate combination.
40 Reference numerals appearing in the claims are by way of illustration only and shall have no limiting
   effect on the scope of the claims.
                                                           37

   CLAIMS
      1. A method of determining a requirements characterisation profile for an entity, comprising the
          steps of:
 5                  receiving classification parameters defining a requirement for an entity;
                    selecting, in dependence on the classification parameters, a set of entities from a
          database of previously assessed entities;
                    retrieving from the database characterisation parameters of the selected set of entities;
          and
10                  constructing, in dependence on the characterisation parameters, a requirements
          characterisation profile for the entity.
      2.  A method according to claim 1 wherein the classification parameters allow an entity to be
          identified generally.
15
      3.  A method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the classification parameters are in the form of a
          nested list of classes and sub-classes.
      4. A method according to any preceding claim wherein only a subset of characteristic parameters is
20        used to select the set of entities from the database.
      5.  A method according to claim 4 wherein only the most significant characteristic parameters are
          used, the most significant characterisation parameters comprising those deemed to be at least
          one of most relevant and least relevant.
25
      6.  A method according to any preceding            claim wherein the characteristic parameters      are
          competencies.
      7.  A method according to any preceding claim wherein the step of receiving the classification
30        parameters comprises determining the classification parameters from answers to a series of
          questions concerning aspects of potential entities or candidate entities.
      8.  A method according to any preceding claim further comprising the step of receiving a set of
          context parameters or variables.
35
      9.  A method according to claim 8 wherein the context parameters or variables are determined in
          dependence on the classification of the entity.
      10. A method according to claim 8 or 9 wherein the number of context parameters or variables used
40        is in dependence on the classification of the entity.
      11. A method according to any preceding claim further comprising the step of:
                    determining the probability of a randomly selected member of the set of selected entities
          having a characterisation parameter in an importance class.
45
      12. A method according to claim 11 when dependent on any of claims 8 to 10 further comprising:
          determining modifiers with which to adjust the probabilities in dependence on the context
          parameters.
                                                        38

   13. A method according to claim 11 or 12 further comprising determining the probability for each of a
       set of classification parameters for each of a set of importance classes.
 5 14. A method according to any of claims 11 to 13 wherein the context parameters or variables used
       are those which are determined to have potentially greatest effect on the resultant probabilities.
   15. A method according to claim 14 wherein determining whether a context parameter or variable has
       potentially the greatest effect on the resultant probabilities uses Kendall's Tau-C statistic.
10
   16. A method according to any of claims 8 to 15 wherein context parameters or variables are
       determined from previously determined context parameters.
   17. A method according to any of claims 8 to 16 wherein the context parameters or variables are
15     determined from answers to a series of questions concerning aspects of potential entities or
       candidate entities.
   18. A method according to any preceding claim further comprising assigning the classification
       parameters to an importance class.
20
   19. A method according to claim 18 wherein the importance class is one of: essential, desirable,
       relevant, non-relevant.
   20. A method according to claim 18 or 19 further comprising the step of:
25              determining the fraction of members of the selected set of entities with characterisation
       parameters in each of the importance classes.
   21. A method according to claim 12 wherein the probability adjustment comprises a Bayesian
       probability calculation.
30
   22. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the method further comprises determining a
       characterisation profile or model determined from the classification parameters.
   23. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the method further comprises determining a
35     characterisation profile or model determined from a subset of the classification parameters.
   24. A method according to any preceding claim further comprising the step of forwarding a set of
       characterisation requirements or a requirements request to a third party.
40 25. A method according to claim 24 further comprising the step of receiving adjustment inputs from
       the third party.
   26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the adjustment inputs from the third party are
       distinguished by at least one of: a suitable label, a representation of the third party adjustment
45     input with a symbol, icon, identification number, a display of hover-over narrative.
                                                     39

   27. A method according to claim 25 or 26, further comprising the step of generating a revised set of
       characterisation requirements or a requirements request in dependence on the received
       adjustment input.
 5 28. A method according to any preceding claim, further comprising the step of determining a suitable
       assessment method or technique in dependence on the set of characterisation requirements.
   29. A method according to claim 28 further comprising the step of selecting a plurality of assessment
       methods or techniques in dependence on the set of requirements.
10
   30. A method according to claim 29 wherein the plurality of assessment methods or techniques are
       selected in dependence on a plurality of characterisation parameters.
   31. A method according to claim 30 wherein the characterisation parameters are competencies.
15
   32. A method according to claim 30 or 31 further comprising associating a characterisation parameter
       weighting, or an importance class, with each characterisation parameter.
   33. A method according to claim 32 wherein the plurality of assessment methods or techniques is
20     further selected according to the characterisation parameter weighting or importance class.
   34. A method according to claim 32 or 33 wherein only assessment methods or techniques related to
       higher weighted or higher classified characterisation parameters being selected.
25 35. A method according to any of claims 28 to 34 wherein the plurality of selected assessment
       methods or techniques are limited to a maximum number of assessment methods or techniques.
   36. A method according to any of claims 28 to 35 wherein the selected assessment methods or
       techniques are optimised to relate to a maximum number of characterisation parameters.
30
   37. A method according to any of claims 28 to 36 wherein the selected assessment methods or
       techniques are optimised to relate to a maximum number of characterisation parameters in a
       particular importance class.
35 38. A method according to claim 37 wherein the importance class is 'high' importance.
   39. A method according to any of claims 28 to 38 wherein the selected assessment methods or
       techniques are optimised to relate to a maximum            number of combined and weighted
       characterisation parameters.
40
   40. A method according to claim 39 wherein the selected assessment methods or techniques are
       optimised by using characterisation parameter weightings.
   41. A method according to claim 40 respective assessment method weighting is associated with each
45     assessment method and characterisation parameter.
                                                    40

   42. A method according to any preceding claim further comprising the step, prior to receiving the
       classification parameters, of evaluating a plurality of assessment results to generate a plurality of
       characterisation parameter results.
 5 43. A method according to claim 42 wherein the assessment results are individual assessment
       results resulting to a plurality of characterisation parameters.
   44. A method according to claim 42 or 43 wherein a plurality of assessment results are weighted and
       combined to generate a characterisation parameter result.
10
   45. A method according to any preceding claim comprising the step of evaluating a plurality of
       characterisation parameter results in dependence on a weighting input, said weighting input
       preferably being said characterisation parameter weighting or importance class.
15 46. A method according to claim 45 wherein comprising the step of calculating an assessment score
       in dependence on the plurality of assessment results and weighting inputs.
   47. A method according to any preceding claim further comprising at least one of the following
       functions: administration      of candidate entities; submission of invitations to candidates to
20     undertake an assessment; administration of assessment results; collecting, scoring, evaluating
       and/or reporting of assessment results; presentation of assessment results; and/or other
       functions relating to a characterisation profile and potential candidate entities.
   48. A method of determining a job specification, the method comprising the steps of:
25               receiving a job classification;
                 selecting from a database in dependence on the classification a set of matching job
       profiles;
                 extracting for each matching job profile a set of assessed competencies;
                 determining the relative relevance of each of the competencies to the job classification;
30     and
                 generating a job specification based on the determined relevant competencies.
   49. A method according to claim 48 wherein the job classification comprises a standard classification.
35 50. A method according to claim 49 wherein the classification is the Standard Occupational
       Classification SOC code as used by O*NET.
   51. A method according to claim 50 wherein the classification is based on a hybrid of standard
       classifications, wherein the granularity is provided by a first classification, in combination with the
40     set of aggregations of levels provided by a second classification.
   52. A method according to any of claims 48 to 51 wherein the competencies are defined according to
       a competency model of a sufficient number of parameters to allow for compatibility by mapping to
       an externally supplied competency model.
45
   53. A method according to claim 52 wherein the competency model is the Universal competency
       Framework UCF.
                                                       41

   54. A method according to any of claims 48 to 53 wherein the relevant competencies for a particular
       job are be determined from data compiled from assessments of workers employed in the same or
       similar jobs.
 5
   55. A method according to any of claims 48 to 54 wherein the relevance of competencies of a job
       specification are adjusted according to a set of contextual variables determined by answers
       provided by the user to questions relating to particulars of the job.
10 56. A method according to claim 55 wherein the particulars of the job comprise a requirement of the
       job, the job environment or of the job candidate.
   57. A method according to claim 55 or 56 wherein the relevance of competencies of a job
       specification are adjusted by a moderator to which the job specification is referred.
15
   58. A method according to any preceding claim further comprising the step of determining a raw
       profile for the entity in direct dependence on the selection of the set of entities in dependence on
       the classification parameters.
20 59. A method according to claim 58 wherein the requirements characterisation profile is available
       alongside the raw profile.
   60. A method according to claim 58 or 59 wherein the constructed requirements characterisation
       profile can be overridden.
25
   61. A method according to claim 58, 59 or 60 wherein the requirements characterisation profile is
       provided in adjustable slider format and preferably raw profile is available in fixed slider.
   62. A method according to claim 61 wherein both an adjustable slider and a fixed slider are provided
30     in conjunction with each other.
   63. A method of facilitating the recruitment of a job candidate, the method comprising the steps of:
                 receiving job classification information;
                 determining, in dependence on the job classification an initial competency profile.
35
   64. A method of claim 63 further comprising the step of, receiving job context information along with
       the job classification information.
   65. A method according to claim 63 or 64 further comprising the step of refining the competency
40     profile in dependence on the job context information
   66. A method according to any of claims 63 to 65 further comprising the step of receiving and
       incorporating feedback on the competency profile.
45 67. A method according to any of claims 63 to 66 further comprising the step of determining a
       suitable assessment for assessing potential candidate for competencies in accordance with the
       competency profile.
                                                       42

   68. An apparatus for determining a requirements characterisation profile for an entity, the apparatus
       comprising:
                 means for receiving classification parameters defining a requirement for an entity;
 5               means for selecting, in dependence on the classification parameters, a set of entities
       from a database of previously assessed entities;
                 means for retrieving from the database characterisation parameters of the selected set of
       entities; and
                 means   for  constructing,   in dependence       on  the   characterisation   parameters,  a
10     requirements characterisation profile for the entity.
   69. An apparatus according to claim 68 further comprising means for carrying out a method
       according to any of claims 2 to 47.
15 70. An apparatus for determining a job specification, the apparatus comprising:
                 means for receiving a job classification;
                 means for selecting from a database in dependence on the classification a set of
       matching job profiles;
                 means for extracting for each matching job profile a set of assessed competencies;
20               means for determining the relative relevance of each of the competencies to the job
       classification; and
                 means    for  generating   a   job   specification  based    on   the   determined  relevant
       competencies.
25 71. An apparatus according to claim 70 further comprising means for carrying out a method
       according to any of claims 49 to 67.
   72. An apparatus according to any claim of 68 to 71 comprising at least one server, for providing
       access for a client or user either directly or via a computer, to the results of processing.
30
   73. An apparatus according to claim 72 wherein the server provides access via a web interface, to
       the results of processing.
   74. An apparatus according to claim 72 or 73 wherein one or more server functions are combined in
35     a single server.
   75. A method substantially as described herein with reference to the accompanying figures.
   76. An apparatus substantially as described herein with reference to the accompanying figures.
40
                                                      43

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
