                                         ABSTRACT
        A device may communicate with a first server to obtain first information regarding a
plurality of groups of entities. The device may process the first information to generate a
data model relating to attributes of the plurality of groups of entities.   The device may
communicate with a second server to obtain second information regarding a particular group
of entities. The device may process the second information using the data model to identify
a set of recommendations relating to the particular group of entities. The device may select
a particular recommendation, of the set of recommendations, based on a corresponding
score of the set of scores. The device may generate a user interface including the particular
recommendation based on selecting the particular recommendation.            The device may
communicate with a plurality of client devices to cause the particular recommendation to be
provided for display.

                                 1/13
 U)                                     )U
                                      (D D                     " D
             EE
  >0                                  (D
             00
     -o)                                            a)
                   >-C
                                                    (DC
                                                    (D             .
                                 U(D
                                 C-D(
                                                        (Di           C)
   or
   0   3C) (D    C
           0.
                    'CC
              (D           a)          C)
                              C)             CC
        (D                                        "       _-
        C)).            (D
                                 C3-.   z,~U
                                             C/-z                Z   C/) )
YJ~K8!)                          E a                         ,       WC
    U)~       ~U r   0)

                                                1
                   GENERATING A SET OF USER INTERFACES
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     An employee's representative (e.g., a human resources manager, a business
leader, career counselor, or a supervisor) at an organization may periodically evaluate the
employee of the organization, such as on a quarterly basis, a yearly basis, or the like to
understand the achievements and/or potential of the employee. The representative may
review and discuss an employee's self-reflection, feedback for the employee, achievement
of metrics (e.g., sales figures), or the like. The representative may determine whether the
employee has satisfied a set of goals of the role and organization, such as a sales goal, a
client feedback goal, or the like. Based on determining whether the employee has satisfied
the set of goals of the company, the representative may determine whether to promote the
employee, provide a new leadership opportunity, alter a reward scheme for the employee,
or take another employment action.

                                                   2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a device, including one or more
processors that communicate with a first server to obtain first information regarding a plurality
of groups of entities, the first information being stored by a plurality of data structures
associated with the first server, process the first information to generate a data model relating
to attributes of the plurality of groups of entities, communicate with a second server to obtain
second information regarding a particular group of entities, process the second information
using the data model to identify a set of recommendations relating to the particular group of
entities, the set of recommendations relating to attributes of the plurality of groups of entities
and one or more attributes of the particular group of entities, the set of recommendations
being associated with a set of scores, select a particular recommendation, of the set of
recommendations, based on a corresponding score of the set of scores, generate a user
interface including the particular recommendation based on selecting the particular
recommendation, and communicate with a plurality of client devices to cause the particular
recommendation to be provided for display, the plurality of client devices being selected
based on the plurality of client devices being determined to be associated with the particular
group of entities.
[0003]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors, when processing
the first information, process the first information relating to attributes of individual entities,
of the plurality of groups of entities, to determine the attributes of the plurality of groups of
entities; and generate the data model based on processing the first information to determine
the attributes of the plurality of groups of entities. In some possible implementations, the
one or more processors, when processing the first information, are to determine that the
attributes of the plurality of groups of entities are associated with a threshold likelihood of the
plurality of groups of entities satisfying a threshold level of performance; and select the
attributes of the plurality of groups of entities from a set of attributes based on determining
that the attributes of the plurality of groups of entities are associated with the threshold
likelihood of the plurality of groups of entities satisfying the threshold level of performance.

                                                    3
[0004]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors, when processing
the second information, determine the set of scores for the set of recommendations based
on at least one of a likelihood of adoption, a likelihood of performance improvement, a
schedule availability, or a cost.        In some possible implementations, the one or more
processors, when communicating with the first server to obtain the first information, are to
communicate with the first server to obtain priorities information from a first data structure of
the plurality of data structures; communicate with the first server to obtain skills information
from a second data structure of the plurality of data structures; and communicate with the
first server to obtain engagement information from a third data structure of the plurality of
data structures.
[0005]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further determine
an engagement level for the particular group of entities based on the second information.
The second information may identify one or more engagement levels for one or more entities
of the particular group of entities.       In some possible implementations, the one or more
processors, when communicating with the plurality of client devices, are to communicate with
the plurality of client devices to cause information identifying the engagement level to be
provided for display.
[0006]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further determine
a set of skills for the particular group of entities based on the second information. The second
information may identify one or more skills associated with one or more entities of the
particular group of entities. In some possible implementations, the one or more processors,
when communicating with the plurality of client devices, are to communicate with the plurality
of client devices to cause information identifying the set of skills for the particular group of
entities to be provided for display.
[0007]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further determine
to schedule a group discussion relating to the particular group of entities.           The group
discussion may be related to the particular recommendation. The one or more processors
may communicate with the plurality of client devices to cause a calendar entry to be stored
via the plurality of client devices for the group discussion.

                                                 4
[0008]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a method, including receiving,
by a cloud computing device, first employee information for a set of employees of an
organization, generating, by the cloud computing device, an analytical data model based on
the first employee information for the set of employees of the organization, the analytical
data model relating to a set of skills, a set of priorities, and a set of engagement levels that
correspond to performance by a team of employees, receiving, by the cloud computing
device, second employee information for a particular team of employees of the organization,
determining, by the cloud computing device, team information for the particular team based
on the second employee information for the particular team, the team information identifying
a set of team skills, a set of team priorities, and a team engagement level for the particular
team, processing, by the cloud computing device, the team information using the analytical
data model to identify a set of recommendations for the team, generating, by the device, a
user interface based on processing the team                information   to identify the set of
recommendations, the        user interface     including   information   identifying the set of
recommendations, and providing, by the device, the user interface for display via a client
device associated with a particular employee of the particular team.
[0009]     In some possible implementations, the method may include determining, based
on one or more skills of one or more employees of the particular team and based on the set
of team skills, a particular recommendation relating to causing the particular employee to
obtain a particular skill. The particular skill may not be included in the set of team skills. In
some possible implementations, providing the user interface may include providing
information identifying the particular skill.
[0010]     In some possible implementations, the method may include determining, based
on one or more skills of one or more employees of the particular team and based on the set
of team skills, a particular recommendation relating to causing the particular employee to
obtain a particular skill. The particular skill may not be included in the set of team skills. In
some possible implementations, providing the user interface may include providing
information associated with scheduling a coaching session to discuss the particular skill with
the particular employee.      In some possible implementations, the method may include

                                                 5
providing, via another client device, information identifying a set of topics for discussion
during the coaching session for display to another employee in another user interface.
[0011]      In some possible implementations, generating the analytical data model may
include generating a set of similarity scores identifying a similarity of a set of organizations
to the organization based on the first employee information for the set of employees of the
organization and third employee information regarding a plurality of employees of the set of
organizations; selecting a subset of the set of organizations based on the set of similarity
scores; filtering the third employee information to select a subset of the third employee
information relating to the subset of the set of organizations; and processing the subset of
the third employee information to generate the analytical data model.            In some possible
implementations, processing the subset of the third employee information may include
processing the subset of the third employee information using at least one of a natural
language processing technique, a machine learning technique, a pattern recognition
technique, or a regression technique.
[0012]      In some possible implementations, the method may include identifying another
recommendation relating to improvement to employee performance for an employee of the
particular team; and providing, via the user interface, information identifying the other
recommendation relating to improvement to employee performance for the employee.
[0013]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions, the instructions including one or more instructions that,
when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive
employee information for a set of employees of a team, identify, based on a set of skills, a
set of priorities, and a set of engagement levels included in the employee information and
associated with the set of employees of the team, team information for the team, the team
information including a set of attributes of the team, the set of attributes of the team including
a group of team skills, a group of team priorities, and a team engagement level, process the
team information to identify a recommendation relating to improving one or more attributes
of the set of attributes of the team, and provide a user interface based on processing the
team information to identify the recommendation for the team, the user interface including

                                                  6
information identifying the team information, the user interface including information
identifying a portion of the employee information, and the user interface including information
identifying a team action plan relating to the recommendation.
[0014]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by one or more processors, may cause the one or more processors to provide, via the user
interface, a set of communication channels to cause communications relating to the group
of team priorities to be routed to a plurality of employees of the set of employees of the team.
[0015]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, that cause the
one or more processors to identify the recommendation, further cause the one or more
processors to identify a training recommendation relating to a team skill that fails to satisfy a
threshold level of skill; and identify, based on the employee information for the set of
employees, an employee to improve proficiency in a skill corresponding to the team skill.
The one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide the user
interface, may further cause the one or more processors to provide information regarding a
training program associated with causing the employee to improve proficiency in the skill
corresponding to the team skill via the user interface.
[0016]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, that cause the
one or more processors to provide the user interface, further cause the one or more
processors to provide, via the user interface, a set of questionnaires relating to the employee
information; receive, after providing the set of questionnaires, information identifying results
of the set of questionnaires; parse the results of the set of questionnaires to update the
employee information; and update the team information based on updating the employee
information.
[0017]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to determine,
based on other team information relating to one or more other teams, that a group of skills
of a plurality of employees of another team correspond to a threshold level of performance
for the team; and determine, based on the team information, that the employees of the team
are associated with a first subset of the group of skills and are not associated with a second

                                                   7
subset of the group of skills. The one or more instructions, that cause the one or more
processors to process the team information to identify the recommendation, may further
cause the one or more processors to process the team information to identify the
recommendation based on determining that the employees of the team are associated with
the first subset of the group of skills and are not associated with the second subset of the
group of skills, the recommendation relating to the second subset of the group of skills.
[0018]      In some possible implementations, a device may include one or more processors
that communicate with a first server to obtain first information regarding a particular entity.
The first information may be stored by a plurality of data structures associated with the first
server. The one or more processors may communicate with a second server to obtain
second information regarding a plurality of entities; and process the first information and the
second information to generate one or more recommendations for the particular entity. The
one or more recommendations may include a recommendation relating to the particular entity
altering an attribute of the particular entity to match an attribute of one or more of the plurality
of entities. The attribute may be associated with a threshold level of performance for the one
or more of the plurality of entities. The one or more processors may generate a user interface
including the one or more recommendations; and communicate with a client device to cause
the user interface to be provided for display.
[0019]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further select a
training program associated with the attribute; and cause the training program or information
relating to the training program to be provided for display via the client device.
[0020]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further identify
another entity of the plurality of entities based on a set of attributes of the other entity;
schedule a coaching session for the particular entity and the other entity based on identifying
the other entity and to cause the particular entity to adopt the attribute; and provide
information identifying the coaching session for display via the client device.           In some
possible implementations, the one or more processors further determine, based on the first
information, one or more topics for the coaching session; and provide, via the user interface,
information identifying the one or more topics for the coaching session.

                                                8
[0021]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors are further to
determine one or more roles for the particular entity; determine an alteration to the one or
more roles based on the first information; and provide information, via the user interface,
identifying the alteration to the one or more roles.
[0022]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further identify
another entity having a priority relating to a priority of the particular entity based on the first
information and the second information, the priority relating to a career goal for the particular
entity, the other entity being associated with the career goal; and provide information, via the
user interface, identifying the other entity.
[0023]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors provide, via the
user interface, information associated with a team of entities that includes the particular
entity, the information associated with the team of entities including information identifying a
recommendation relating to team performance.
[0024]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors provide, via the
user interface, at least one of a social channel to permit communication between the
particular entity and the one or more of the plurality of entities, or a gamification module to
provide information identifying a progress of the particular entity and another entity toward
achievement of a common priority.         The particular entity and the other entity may be
associated with a common team of entities.
[0025]      In some possible implementations, a method may include receiving, by a cloud
computing device, employee information associated with a set of employees of one or more
organizations. The employee information may include a set of strengths or skills of an
employee and a set of priorities of the employee. The method may include analyzing, by the
cloud computing device, the employee information using an analytical data model of
employee achievement to determine one or more attributes corresponding to a threshold
level of employee achievement. The threshold level of employee achievement may relate to
the set of priorities of the employee, and the one or more attributes may include a strength
or a skill corresponding to the threshold level of employee achievement that is not included
in the set of strengths of the employee. The method may include generating, by the cloud

                                                9
computing device, a user interface for the employee including output information regarding
the employee, the output information including a recommendation relating to the employee
adopting the strength. The method may include providing, by the cloud computing device,
the user interface.
[0026]       In some possible implementations, the method may include determining the
recommendation based on analyzing the employee information, the recommendation
relating to a coaching session for the employee; and providing, via the user interface, a set
of topics for the coaching session for display via a first client device used by the employee
and a second client device used by another employee. The set of topics may relate to the
one or more attributes.
[0027]       In some possible implementations, the method may include determining one or
more organizational expectations of the organization relating to a particular priority of the set
of priorities of the employee; and providing, via the user interface, information identifying the
one or more organizational expectations.
[0028]       In some possible implementations, the method may include searching a network
for a training program relating to the strength or the skill; obtaining information regarding the
training program based on searching the network; and providing the information regarding
the training program via the user interface based on obtaining the information regarding
training program and to cause the employee to adopt the strength or the skill.
[0029]       In some possible implementations, the method may include identifying an award
relating to performance achievement of the employee based on the analytical data model;
and providing information identifying the award.
[0030]       In some possible implementations, the method may include determining an
alteration to a team of employees based on the set of strengths or skills of the employee;
and providing information identifying the alteration to the team via the user interface.
[0031]       In some possible implementations, the method may include providing a set of
questionnaires including a set of questions associated with the set of strengths or the set of
priorities; and causing the set of questionnaires to be provided via the user interface. In

                                                  10
some possible implementations, receiving the employee information associated with the set
of employees may include receiving information identifying a result of a questionnaire of the
set of questionnaires.
[0032]      In some possible implementations, a non-transitory computer-readable medium
may store one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause
the one or more processors to identify a set of skills, a set of priorities, and a set of
engagement levels for a set of employees of an organization. Each skill, of the set of skills,
may be associated with a set of tasks completed by the set of employees. The one or more
instructions, when executed by one or more processors, may further cause the one or more
processors to determine, for the set of employees, a level of performance achievement
relating to completion of the set of tasks or the set of priorities, the level of performance
achievement satisfying a threshold level for a subset of employees; identify, for the subset
of employees, a set of attributes corresponding to the level of performance achievement
satisfying the threshold level, the set of attributes including one or more skills, of the set of
skills, one or more priorities, of the set of priorities, or one or more engagement levels of the
set of engagement levels; generate a recommendation relating to the set of attributes for a
particular employee, the recommendation relating to the particular employee adopting an
attribute of the set of attributes; and provide a user interface including the recommendation
for the particular employee.
[0033]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to provide, via the
user interface, a set of alerts relating to a peer coaching session for the particular employee.
[0034]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to determine,
based on the set of engagement levels, a set of amounts of time for a set of peer coaching
sessions; determine, based on a particular engagement level associated with the particular
employee and the set of amounts of time for periodic peer coaching sessions, a particular
amount of time to elapse for scheduling the peer coaching session for the particular
employee; and determine that the particular amount of time elapsed from a previous peer

                                                 11
coaching session for the particular employee. The one or more instructions, that cause the
one or more processors to provide the set of alerts, may further cause the one or more
processors to provide a particular alert relating to the peer coaching session based on
determining that the particular amount of time elapsed.
[0035]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to determine a set
of scores for a set of recommendations based on generating the set of recommendations.
The set of recommendations may include the recommendation. The set of scores may relate
to at least of one of a cost of the recommendation, a benefit of the recommendation, or a
likelihood of adoption of the recommendation by the particular employee. The set of scores
may be determined based on the set of skills, the set of priorities, and the set of engagement
levels for the set of employees; The one or more instructions, that cause the one or more
processors to provide the set of alerts, may further cause the one or more processors to
select the recommendation from the set of recommendations based on a score, of the set of
scores, for the recommendation. The one or more instructions, that cause the one or more
processors to provide the user interface including the recommendation, may further cause
the one or more processors to provide the user interface based on selecting the
recommendation from the set of recommendations.
[0036]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to provide a set of
questionnaires to determine the set of skills, the set of priorities, and the set of engagement
levels; and provide, after providing the set of questionnaires and for display via a user
interface to a manager of the particular employee, information identifying a completion status
of a particular questionnaire assigned to the particular employee.            The one or more
instructions, that cause the one or more processors to identify the set of skills, the set of
priorities, and the set of engagement levels, may cause the one or more processors to
identify the set of skills, the set of priorities, and the set of engagement levels based on
results of the set of questionnaires.

                                                12
[0037]      In some possible implementations, a device may include one or more processors.
The one or more processors may communicate with a server to obtain information regarding
a group of entities, the information including a set of attributes of the group of entities; and
generate a social intervention recommendation relating to a particular entity or the group of
entities based on the information relating to the group of entities. The social intervention
recommendation may include a set of social channels to cause a communication to be
directed from a first user interface provided via a first client device to a second user interface
provided via a second client device, and may include a gamification module relating to the
particular entity or the group of entities. The one or more processors may cause the social
intervention recommendation to be implemented for the first client device; and cause, after
causing the social intervention recommendation to be implemented for the first client device,
at least one of a set of communications to be directed from the first client device to the second
client device via the set of social channels, or information associated with the gamification
module to be updated for display via the first client device.
[0038]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further detect a
message from the first client device associated with a particular social channel of the set of
social channels; parse the message to determine a subject of the message; and determine,
based on the information regarding the group of entities and the subject of the message, that
the message relates to the second client device. The one or more processors, when causing
the set of communications to be directed from the first client device to the second client
device, may cause the message to be provided for display via the second client device.
[0039]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further receive
information identifying a progress of one or more entities on one or more tasks relating to
the group of entities. The one or more processors, when causing the information associated
with the gamification module to be updated, may cause the gamification module to be
updated to identify the progress of the one or more entities on the one or more tasks.
[0040]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors, when generating
the social intervention recommendation, further generate, for the particular entity of the group
of entities, a set of messages relating to one or more other entities of the group of entities;

                                                     13
provide the set of messages for display via the first user interface of the first client device;
receive a selection of a particular message of the set of messages; and cause the particular
message to be directed toward a particular client device associated with one of the one or
more entities of the group of entities with which the particular message is associated.
[0041]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further determine
that a utilization of the first user interface by the particular entity of the group of entities
satisfies a threshold level of utilization based on the information regarding the group of
entities.    The one or more processors, when generating the social intervention
recommendation, may select a reward for the gamification module associated with
increasing the utilization of the first user interface; and cause information regarding the
reward to be provided for display via the first user interface.
[0042]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors, when causing the
social intervention recommendation to be implemented for the first client device, provide a
set of alerts for display via the first user interface indicating a set of group conversations that
are determined to be of interest to the particular entity, of the group of entities, associated
with using the first client device.
[0043]      In some possible implementations, the one or more processors further detect an
interaction with the first user interface associated with selecting a particular group
conversation of the set of group conversations; and cause one or more messages of the
particular group conversation to be provided for display via the first user interface.
[0044]      In some possible implementations, a method may include receiving, by a cloud
computing device, employee information or team information regarding a set employees of
an organization; determining, by the cloud computing device, a level of utilization of a user
interface or a user interface by a particular employee of the set of employees based on the
employee information or the team information; determining, by the cloud computing device,
that the level of utilization fails to satisfy a threshold; and determining, by the cloud computing
device, one or more social channels associated with increasing the level of utilization based
on the employee information or the team information. The one or more social channels may
relate to communication between the particular employee and one or more other employees

                                                14
of the set of employees, or the one or more social channels may relate to a gamification
module relating to providing rewards for utilization of the user interface. The method may
include causing, by the cloud computing device, the one or more social channels to be
provided in the user interface or the user interface.
[0045]      In some possible implementations, the method may include determining that a
particular priority of the particular employee relates to another employee of the one or more
other employees. In some possible implementations, determining the one or more social
channels may include selecting a particular social channel, of the one or more social
channels, to direct communications between a first client device used by the particular
employee and a second client device used by the other employee.
[0046]      In some possible implementations, the method may include determining that the
particular employee is to adopt a particular attribute determined to have a threshold
association with an improvement to or team achievement; and identifying another employee,
of the one or more other employees, for a peer coaching session based on determining that
the particular employee is to adopt the particular attribute.               In some possible
implementations, determining the one or more social channels may include selecting a
particular social channel, of the one or more social channels, to direct one or more messages
associated with scheduling the peer coaching session between a first client device used by
the particular employee and a second client device used by the other employee.
[0047]      In some possible implementations, the method may include determining, based
on the employee information or the team information, that participation in an organizational
discussion of performance is associated with improving performance of the set of employees
of the organization. In some possible implementations, determining the one or more social
channels may include establishing a social channel, of the one or more social channels, for
the organizational discussion of performance. In some possible implementations, causing
the one or more social channels to be provided may include causing a set of messages of
the social channel to be provided for display via the user interface or the user interface; and
causing an alert to be provided indicating that the set of messages of the social channel are
being provided for display.

                                                   15
[0048]     In some possible implementations, determining the one or more social channels
may include processing the employee information or the team information to determine that
viewing a training video regarding the user interface or the user interface is associated with
increasing the level of utilization. In some possible implementations, determining the one or
more social channels may include determining a social channel associated with causing the
particular employee to view the training video.
[0049]     In some possible implementations, the training video is an interactive training
video. In some possible implementations, the method may include causing the training video
to be provided; monitoring utilization of the user interface or the user interface to detect a
user interaction associated with operating a feature of the user interface or the user interface;
and altering playback of the training video based on detecting the user interaction.
[0050]     In some possible implementations, determining the one or more social channels
may include determining a feature of the user interface or the user interface that is associated
with the level of utilization failing to satisfy the threshold; obtaining, from a frequently asked
questions (FAQ) data structure, one or more FAQs relating to the feature; and establishing
a particular social channel to provide information relating to the one or more FAQs.
[0051]     In some possible implementations, a non-transitory computer-readable medium
may store one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause
the one or more processors to receive employee information regarding an employee of an
organization. The employee information may include a set of priorities, a set of skills, and
an engagement level. The one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more
processors, may cause the one or more processors to receive team information regarding a
team, of the organization, that includes the employee. The team information may include a
set of team priorities, a set of team skills, and a team engagement level. The one or more
instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, may cause the one or more
processors to receive information identifying a set of organizational conversations provided
via a set of social channels; determine, based on the employee information, the team
information, and the information identifying the set of organizational conversations, one or
more organizational conversations relevant to the employee; and provide, via a user

                                                16
interface, access to one or more social channels, of the set of social channels, associated
with the one or more organizational conversations.
[0052]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, that cause the
one or more processors to determine the one or more organizational conversations relevant
to the employee, may further cause the one or more processors to identify, based on the
employee information, a particular skill of the employee that satisfies a threshold level of skill;
and determine, based on the information identifying the set of organizational conversations,
a particular organizational conversation relating to the particular skill of the employee.
[0053]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, may cause the one or more processors to provide, via the
user interface, a gamification module identifying a progress toward a particular team priority.
In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more
processors to determine the one or more organizational conversations relevant to the
employee, further cause the one or more processors to determine a particular organizational
conversation relating to the particular team priority.
[0054]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, may cause the one or more processors to determine, based
on the employee information, that the employee satisfied one or more criteria for a particular
award; cause a badge identifying the particular award to be provided, for display via the user
interface, to the employee; identify another employee, of the set of employees, associated
with the employee, the other employee and the employee being on a common team of
employees; and further cause information identifying the particular award to be provided, for
display via another user interface, to the other employee.
[0055]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, may further cause the one or more processors to detect a
user interaction with the other user interface, the user interaction being associated with
selecting a user interface element to congratulate the employee on the particular award; and
further cause a message to be provided, for display via the user interface, to the employee.

                                                17
The message may be associated with indicating that the other employee congratulated the
employee on the particular award.
[0056]      In some possible implementations, the one or more instructions, when executed
by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to periodically
provide, via the user interface, content associated with training the employee to increase a
level of utilization of the user interface based on determining that the level of utilization fails
to satisfy a threshold.

                                               18
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0057]    Fig. 1 is a diagram of an overview of an example implementation described herein;
[0058]    Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0059]    Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2;
[0060]    Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for providing a user interface to enable
performance achievement for an employee of an organization;
[0061]    Figs. 5A-5C are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the example
process shown in Fig. 4;
[0062]    Fig. 6 is a flow chart of an example process for providing a user interface to enable
performance achievement for a team of employees of an organization;
[0063]    Figs. 7A-7C are diagrams of an example implementation relating to the example
process shown in Fig. 6;
[0064]    Fig. 8 is a flow chart of an example process for providing social channels to assist
in performance achievement for a set of employees of an organization; and
[0065]    Fig. 9 is a diagram of an example implementation relating to the example process
shown in Fig. 8.

                                               19
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0066]     The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0067]     To perform      performance management        for an    employer, an employee's
representative (e.g., a human resources manager, a business leader, a supervisor, a career
counselor, or the like) at an organization may determine a set of goals for a set of employees,
such as a monthly goal, a quarterly goal, a yearly goal, or the like.         For example, the
representative may determine that an employee is to satisfy a goal relating to sales, a goal
relating to customer feedback, a goal relating to hours worked, or the like.                 The
representative may periodically perform a performance review of the employee to determine
whether the employee has satisfied the goal.          For example, the representative may
determine that the employee has satisfied a sales goal, and may recommend the employee
for a reward for the employee, a promotion, or the like.
[0068]      However, backward looking performance evaluation based on goals may result in
employees failing to achieve an improved level of performance (e.g., a threshold level of
performance that is improved relative to a previous level of performance) for the organization.
For example, an employee may be informed at an evaluation that the employee has not
received a threshold level of customer feedback, and may be demoted or fired without the
employee having been made aware that the customer feedback that the employee was
receiving was unsatisfactory.      Moreover, the employee may lack an understanding of
attributes that can be adopted by the employee to achieve a threshold level of performance
desired by the organization.
[0069]      Implementations,    described   herein, provide a forward        looking   individual
achievement user interface to provide information to an employee that can assist the
employee in achieving the improved level (e.g., the threshold level) of performance and/or
achievement of a set of personal career goals. For example, implementations described
herein may result in improved performance metrics (e.g., sales, customer satisfaction,
accuracy), improved delivery metrics (e.g., code written, tasks completed, trouble tickets

                                               20
processed, turnaround time), higher quality, enhanced client relationships, improved
average daily rate (e.g., how much a client can be charged for a task), or the like. Moreover,
based on assisting the employee in achieving the threshold level of performance, the
individual achievement user interface may obviate a need for excessive employee
monitoring, thereby reducing a utilization of computing resources associated with monitoring
employees of an organization. Furthermore, based on improving a level of performance of
the employee, a utilization of computing resources associated with completing a task,
reviewing the task, and/or revising errors in the task may be reduced relative to when an
employee does not achieve the threshold level of performance.
[0070]     An employee may be a member of a team of multiple employees in an
organization, such as a sales team, a client management team, or the like. A team may
have a unique combination of multiple strengths and may require engagement by each
employee of the team to achieve a threshold level of team achievement. Managers may
assess an employee based on individual metrics regarding the employee, such as sales
metrics, customer feedback metrics, production metrics, error metrics, or the like. However,
evaluating an employee based on individual metrics may fail to account for the employee's
complete contribution to the team. For example, although an employee may fail to satisfy a
threshold relating to an individual metric, the employee may enable other employees of the
team to satisfy a threshold relating to a team metric. Moreover, evaluating each individual
employee of the team may fail to account for the interaction of each individual employee with
other employees of the team in causing team success or team failure.           Furthermore, a
manager who is focused on evaluating individual members of a team may fail to provide
recommendations to improve team effectiveness and cause the team to satisfy a threshold
level of performance achievement.
[0071]      Implementations, described herein, provide a team achievement user interface to
analyze information regarding a team of employees of an organization and provide one or
more recommendations to enable achievement of an improved level (e.g., to a threshold
level) of performance for the team of employees of the organization, thereby ensuring growth
of the team of employees.      Moreover, the team achievement user interface may provide
information identifying strengths of individual team members and a contribution of individual

                                               21
strengths to team strengths to ensure that a team can leverage each team member's
individual strengths in order to best assign work and complete tasks. Furthermore, the team
achievement user interface may provide recommendations relating to an action plan to
improve overall team engagement. In this way, team engagement and achievement may be
improved, thereby reducing a utilization of computing resources associated with managing
a team, completing team tasks, and/or revising errors in team projects.
[0072]     Each employee of a team may have different personal goals that each employee
hopes to achieve. For example, a particular employee may have a personal sales goal, a
personal production goal, a personal promotion goal, or the like. Although the team may
work together to attempt to achieve a known team goal, a lack of transparency in individual
goals may result in an employee of the team failing to receive assistance, mentorship, or the
like from other employees of the team in achieving a particular individual goal. This may
result in employees failing to achieve job satisfaction relating to individual goals. Moreover,
a failure to utilize a user interface providing information may reduce an effectiveness of
providing the user interface.
[0073]     Implementations, described herein, identify a personalized social intervention
including providing a set of social channels relating to improving transparency of goals,
communication, and utilization of an individual achievement user interface or a team
achievement user interface. Moreover, based on including gamification techniques with the
personalized social intervention, implementations described herein may increase utilization
of one or more user interfaces and/or an application of recommendations provided via the
one or more user interfaces, thereby increasing an effectiveness of the one or more user
interfaces in improving performance.
[0074]     In this way, employee satisfaction may be improved based on improving employee
performance and achieving career goals, thereby reducing a rate of attrition and reducing an
amount of computing resources that are associated with training and/or identifying
replacement employees. Furthermore, based on improving employee performance, a quality
of projects completed by a team of employees may be improved, thereby reducing a

                                                22
utilization of computing resources associated with completing the project, testing the project,
debugging the project, or the like.
[0075]      Fig. 1 is a diagram of an overview of an example implementation 100 described
herein. As shown in Fig. 1, example implementation 100 may include a set of data structures,
a cloud network, a cloud platform, and a set of client devices.
[0076]      As further shown in Fig. 1, the cloud platform may receive information from the set
of data structures.       For example, the cloud platform may receive strengths or skills
information from a strengths data structure.       Strengths or skills information may include
information identifying a particular strength of an employee, such as a communication
strength, a networking strength, an expertise strength, or the like. For example, the cloud
platform may provide a user interface identifying a questionnaire regarding a set of skills or
strengths that an employee may have, a set of tasks completed by an employee (e.g., from
which the cloud platform may determine skills or strengths that an employee may have), or
the like. In this case, the cloud platform may receive a result of the questionnaire indicating
a task (e.g., from which the cloud platform may determine that the employee may possess a
communication skill or strength), a skill or strength (e.g., a self-identification of a
communication skill, etc.), or the like, and may store the result of the questionnaire via the
strengths data structure, via a skills data structure, or the like.
[0077]      Similarly, the cloud platform may receive priorities information from a priorities data
structure. The priorities information may include information identifying a set of goals of a
particular employee, a set of goals for a team of employees, or the like. For example, when
a team of employees are assigned to a particular task, the cloud platform may identify a set
of goals relating to completion of the particular task and may store information identifying the
set of goals via the priorities data structure. Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform
may receive priorities information identifying a ranking of multiple priorities, such as a ranking
relating to a preference regarding achieving a set of goals or the like. Additionally, or
alternatively, the cloud platform may determine priorities information based on an order with
which a set of tasks are completed, an amount of time that an employee indicates is allocated
to each of the set of tasks, or the like.

                                                    23
[0078]       Similarly, the cloud platform may receive engagement information from an
engagement data structure. The engagement information may refer to a connection of a
team of employees to a particular task, to a particular team, or the like. For example, the
cloud platform may utilize data regarding employees to determine a level of engagement,
which may correspond to an employee attrition rate, an employee satisfaction score, a rate
at which clients are retained, or the like. For example, the cloud platform may determine that
a first team is relatively highly engaged, resulting in a relatively low likelihood of employee
attrition. In some implementations, the cloud platform may determine employee analytics to
determine a metric relating to individual engagement and subsequently determine one or
more recommendations for the employee. In some implementations, the cloud platform may
determine engagement of an employee based on monitoring completion of one or more
tasks.     In some implementations, cloud platform may determine engagement of the
employee based on monitoring utilization of one or more user interfaces, such as utilization
of a chat platform to discuss employee priorities, utilization of a gamification module, or the
like.
[0079]       Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform may receive information from other
data sources.       For example, the cloud platform may receive expectations information
regarding employee expectations from an employee expectations data structure, feedback
information regarding employee feedback from an employee feedback data structure,
employee discussion records regarding employee discussions (e.g., records regarding
counseling discussions, such as peer coaching sessions, supervisor coaching sessions,
supervisee coaching sessions, etc., talent discussions, or the like) from an employee
discussions records data structure, or the like.
[0080]       The cloud platform may process the information received from the set of data
structures.    For example, the cloud platform may process the information to determine
attributes of a set of employees associated with a threshold level of performance
achievement. An attribute may refer to a particular strength, a particular priority, a level of
engagement, or the like. In this case, the cloud platform may identify one or more employees
associated with a first threshold level of performance achievement, and may generate a
recommendation relating to causing the one or more employees to adopt the one or more

                                                 24
attributes to satisfy a second level of performance achievement (e.g., a higher level of
performance achievement). For example, the cloud platform may identify a recommendation
relating to training an employee for a particular strength, a recommendation relating to
realigning one or more priorities of the particular employee, a recommendation relating to
increasing a level of engagement of the particular employee, a recommendation relating to
realigning a work or task assignment of the particular employee (e.g., to ensure that the
employee is working on a task that aligns with short term goals and/or long term goals of
both the employee and the employer), or the like. In this way, the cloud platform may identify
recommendations associated with increasing individual achievement, thereby improving
employee satisfaction, retention, or the like relative to another technique for performance
management.
[0081]      Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform may process the information to
generate a recommendation relating to a peer coaching session or another type of coaching
session (e.g., a supervisor coaching session, a supervisee coaching session, a team
coaching session, a mentor coaching session, a manager coaching session, etc.).             For
example, the cloud platform may recommend that the employee and another employee
engage in a peer coaching session to discuss one or more attributes that can be adopted by
the employee, to discuss one or more priorities of the employee, or the like. In this case, the
cloud platform may automatically perform a set of response actions, such as causing
information to be displayed in the individual achievement user interface identifying a set of
topics for discussion in the peer coaching session, causing a calendar entry to be created
for the peer coaching session, transmitting an alert to another client device used by the other
employee to alert the other employee regarding the peer coaching session, or the like.
[0082]      Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform may process the information to
determine team strength information, team priorities information, and/or team engagement
information   based on strengths or skills information, priorities         information, and/or
engagement information regarding a set of employees. In this case, the cloud platform may
generate a set of recommended actions or activities for a team based on the strengths that
exist for the employees and the set of strengths of the team. Similarly, the cloud platform
may determine a set of priorities for the team based on individual priorities for employees of

                                                 25
the team, collective goals set for the team, or the like. Similarly, the cloud platform may
determine a level of engagement for the team. For example, the cloud platform may analyze
strengths information and/or skills information, as well as other data, such as data (e.g.,
numerical data, questionnaire responses, or the like) regarding employee absenteeism,
employee attrition, employee satisfaction, employee performance, or the like to determine a
collective level of engagement for the team. In this case, the cloud platform may generate a
recommendation relating to improving team engagement, such as a recommendation
relating to training, compensation, team priorities, team coaching, or the like. In this way,
the cloud platform improves team achievement, thereby increasing a likelihood of team
completion of a particular task and reducing a utilization of computing resources associated
with completion of the particular task relative to performing employee management based
only on individual employees.
[0083]      Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform may process the information to
determine a personalized social intervention recommendation for the employee and/or the
team of employees based on an engagement need, a coaching need, or the like.                 For
example, the cloud platform may identify a set of personalized alerts relating to improving
employee engagement or improving a likelihood of employee utilization of a particular user
interface.    Similarly, the cloud platform may determine a set of personalized social
communication channels that are to be provided for display to an employee to improve
communication between the employee and a set of other employees of an organization.
Similarly, the cloud platform may determine a set of personalized gamification modules that
are to be provided for display to the employee. In this way, the cloud platform provides a
personalized aspect of a user interface to improve performance achievement of an individual
employee or a group of employees.
[0084]      As further shown in Fig. 1, the cloud platform may generate a set of user interfaces
based on processing the information.         For example, the cloud platform may provide, for
display via a first client device, an individual achievement user interface. The individual
achievement user interface may include information associated with identifying strengths of
an employee, priorities of the employee, engagement of the employee (or engagement of a
team that includes the employee), or the like. For example, the cloud platform may provide

                                                26
information identifying attributes of employees satisfying a threshold level of performance
achievement (or employees who are determined to be growing and/or improving a level of
performance achievement), and a set of recommendations to cause the employee to adopt
one or more of the attributes. Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform may provide a
set of training recommendations, a set of role recommendations, a set of coaching
recommendations, or the like.
[0085]     As further shown in Fig. 1, the cloud platform may provide, for display via a second
client device, a team achievement user interface. The team achievement user interface may
include information associated with results of a survey or questionnaire of a set of team
members, such as an engagement level of the set of team members, a trend in the
engagement level over time, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud platform may
provide, for display in the team achievement user interface, a team action plan identifying a
set of recommendations relating to team roles, team activities, team coaching, team staffing,
or the like to improve team engagement, and thereby, team achievement. Additionally, or
alternatively, the cloud platform may provide, for display in the team achievement user
interface, recommended actions and/or activities to facilitate a set of team discussions, such
as providing enablement content to support a team strengths discussion.
[0086]     As further shown in Fig. 1, the cloud platform may provide, for display via a third
client device, a social intervention user interface. The social intervention user interface may
include a set of modules that may be included in another user interface to utilize gamification,
communication, and/or social sharing techniques to improve employee performance, team
achievement, organizational transparency, or the like. For example, the cloud platform may
provide a set of user interface elements to permit an employee to share information
identifying a set of personal priorities, and may direct information identifying the set of
personal priorities to a set of other employees determined to be in positions to help the
employee complete a set of tasks relating to the set of personal priorities. As an example,
the cloud platform may receive information indicating that a particular employee desires to
reach a management level position, may identify a set of potential stakeholders (e.g., a
mentor for the employee, a supervisor to recommend a promotion, or a peer to help the
employee improve achievement on a particular task), may provide a set of alerts to the set

                                               27
of potential stakeholders identifying the desire of the particular employee and/or a set of
actions to assist the particular employee (e.g., a mentoring session, a goal-setting session,
or a new work assignment), and may establish a chat module to connect the particular
employee and the set of potential stakeholders. Additionally, or alternatively, the cloud
platform may utilize gamification strategies to encourage monitoring of team progress
between employees of a team and/or between multiple teams to improve performance, to
manage an organizational culture, or the like.
[0087]     In this way, the cloud platform improves employee management for an
organization, thereby increasing employee morale, employee performance, and/or team
achievement. Moreover, based on improving organizational employee management, the
cloud platform improves a quality of employee work product, thereby reducing a utilization of
computing resources associated with error checking, testing, and/or validation for employee
work product.
[0088]     As indicated above, Fig. 1 is provided merely as an example. Other examples are
possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Fig. 1.
[0089]     Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more client device(s) 210, a cloud platform 220, a cloud network 230, a
network 240, one or more server(s) 250, and one or more data structure(s) 260. Devices of
environment 200 may interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a
combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0090]     Client device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, generating,
storing, processing, and/or providing a set of user interfaces relating to performance
achievement.      For example, client device 210 may include a communication and/or
computing device, such as a mobile phone (e.g., a smart phone or a radiotelephone), a
computer (e.g., a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, or a desktop
computer), a wearable communication device (e.g., a smart wristwatch or a pair of smart
eyeglasses), or a similar type of device. In some implementations, client device 210 may

                                               28
receive information from and/or transmit information to another device in environment 200
(e.g., via network 240).
[0091]      Cloud platform 220 includes one or more devices capable of storing, processing,
and/or routing a set of user interfaces relating to performance achievement. For example,
cloud platform 220 may include a server that is associated with assigning resources of cloud
network 230, directing functionalities of cloud network 230, or the like.          In some
implementations, cloud platform 220 may include a communication interface that allows
cloud platform 220 to receive information from and/or transmit information to other devices
in environment 200.      While cloud platform 220 is described as a resource in a cloud
computing network, such as cloud network 230, cloud platform 220 may operate external to
a cloud computing network, in some implementations.
[0092]      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may be hosted by a cloud computing
environment, such as cloud network 230 or the like. The cloud computing environment may
provide computation, software, data access, storage, etc. services that do not require end
user knowledge of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that
host cloud platform 220. As shown, the cloud computing environment may include a group
of computing resources 225 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 225" and
individually as "computing resource 225").
[0093]      Computing resource 225 includes one or more personal computers, workstation
computers, server devices, or another type of computation and/or communication device. In
some implementations, computing resource 225 may host cloud platform 220. The cloud
resources may include compute instances executing in computing resource 225, storage
devices provided in computing resource 225, data transfer devices provided by computing
resource 225, or the like.      In some implementations, computing resource 225 may
communicate with other computing resources 225 via wired connections, wireless
connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0094]      As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 225 includes a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 225-1, one or more virtual machines

                                               29
("VMs") 225-2, one or more virtualized storages ("VSs") 225-3, or one or more hypervisors
("HYPs") 225-4.
[0095]      Application 225-1 includes one or more software applications that may be provided
to or accessed by one or more devices of environment 200. For example, applications 225
1 may include a set of applications associated with a set of user interfaces, such as a team
dashboard user interface, a performance management user interface, a social dashboard
user interface, or the like. Application 225-1 may eliminate a need to install and execute the
software applications on devices of environment 200. For example, application 225-1 may
include software associated with cloud platform 220 and/or any other software capable of
being provided via a cloud computing environment.              In some implementations, one
application 225-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications 225
1, via virtual machine 225-2.
[0096]      Virtual machine 225-2 includes a software implementation of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 225-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 225-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 225-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., associated with one or more devices of environment 200), and may
manage infrastructure of a cloud computing environment, such as data management,
synchronization, or long-duration data transfers.
[0097]      Virtualized storage 225-3 includes one or more storage systems and/or one or
more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 225. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system

                                                30
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0098]        Hypervisor 225-4 may provide hardware virtualization techniques that allow
multiple operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a
host computer, such as computing resource 225. Hypervisor 225-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources.
[0099]       Cloud network 230 includes an environment that delivers computing as a service,
whereby shared resources, services, etc. may be provided by cloud platform 220 to store,
process, and/or route information associated with a set of user interfaces relating to
performance achievement. Cloud network 230 may provide computation, software, data
access, storage, and/or other services that do not require end-user knowledge of a physical
location and configuration of a system and/or a device that delivers the services (e.g., cloud
platform 220). As shown, cloud network 230 may include cloud platform 220 and/or may
communicate with client device 210 via one or more wired or wireless networks (e.g., network
240).
[00100]       Network 240 includes one or more wired and/or wireless networks. For example,
network 240 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term evolution (LTE) network, a 3G
network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network, etc.), a public land mobile network
(PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a personal area network (PAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public
Switched Telephone Network (PSTN)), a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet,
the Internet, a fiber optic-based network, a cloud computing network, a peer-to-peer network,
or the like, and/or a combination of these or other types of networks.
[00101]      Server 250 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, storing,
determining, processing, and/or providing information associated with employee information,

                                               31
team information, or the like. For example, servers 250 may include a first server that
provides first information regarding an employee or a team (e.g., a first entity or a first group
of entities) of an organization, a second server that provides second information regarding
another employee or another team (e.g., of another, similar organization), or the like. In
some implementations, server 260 may communicate with cloud platform 220 to provide
information to cloud platform 220, to permit cloud platform 220 to generate one or more user
interfaces for an employee or a team of employees.
[00102]     Data structure 260 includes one or more data structures capable of receiving,
storing,   and/or providing    information associated with     employee    information, team
information, or the like. For example, data structure 260 may include a set of data structures
of a server 250. In some implementations, data structure 260 may include a data structure
associated with an application programming interface (API). For example, data structure
260 may include a data structure of a social media website, from which data may be obtained
using the API.
[00103]     The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[00104]     Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to client device 210, cloud platform 220, and/or server 250.                 In some
implementations, client device 210, cloud platform 220, and/or server 250 may include one
or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown in Fig. 3,
device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage component
340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a communication interface
370.

                                               32
[00105]     Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among    the
components of device 300.      Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[00106]     Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[00107]     Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator). Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).
[00108]     Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit

                                                33
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[00109]     Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[00110]    Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[00111]    The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.
[00112]     Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 providing a user interface to
enable performance achievement for an employee of an organization.                     In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by cloud platform
220. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by

                                                 34
another device or a group of devices separate from or including cloud platform 220, such as
client device 210 and/or server 250.
[00113]    As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include receiving employee information
associated with an employee (block 410). For example, cloud platform 220 may receive
employee information associated with the employee.               In some implementations, cloud
platform 220 may receive employee information associated with a set of employees (e.g., a
set of entities) of an organization. For example, cloud platform 220 may obtain employee
information regarding the set of employees from a data structure storing employee
information, such as a human resources data structure, a task assignment data structure
(e.g., a role data structure), a compensation data structure, or the like. Additionally, or
alternatively, cloud platform 220 may receive employee information regarding a set of
employees of another organization (e.g., from a database of information regarding other
organizations for which evaluations of employee performance have been performed or for
which other data is available). For example, cloud platform 220 may identify one or more
other organizations with a threshold similarity to the organization (e.g., based on a type of
the organization, a size of the organization, an industry of the organization, a profitability of
the organization, or an organizational structure of the organization), and may obtain
information regarding employees of the one or more other organizations from one or more
data structures. In this case, cloud platform 220 may filter employee information regarding
a set of organizations to obtain a subset of employee information relating to a subset of the
set of organizations (e.g., the one or more organizations with a threshold similarity to the
organization determined based on a similarity score), and may process the subset of the
employee information       to generate an analytical data model relating to individual
achievement, team achievement, or the like.
[00114]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide a user interface
including a set of prompts to obtain employee information. For example, cloud platform 220
may provide a set of questionnaires to a set of employees to obtain information regarding
the set of employees.     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide a user
interface including a set of prompts to a first user (e.g., a first employee) to obtain information
regarding a second user (e.g., a second employee). For example, cloud platform 220 may

                                                35
identify the first employee, such as a supervisor of the second employee, a mentor of the
second employee, a peer of the second employee, or the like based on information included
in a data structure storing information regarding an organization. In this case, cloud platform
220 may communicate with client device 210 to provide a questionnaire for display to the
first employee, may cause the user interface to include a set of prompts regarding the second
employee, and may detect a set of user interactions with the user interface associated with
indicating a response to the set of prompts.
[00115]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may parse a document to obtain the
employee information.       For example, cloud platform 220 may utilize a natural language
processing technique to parse a resume document and obtain information identifying a set
of tasks completed by a particular employee (e.g., a particular entity), a set of roles assigned
to the particular employee, a salary history of the particular employee, or the like.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may parse a performance review, an
employee file (e.g., an image of an employee file using an optical character recognition
(OCR) technique or a digitized employee file), or the like to obtain information identifying the
set of tasks or the like. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may communicate with
a set of remote servers to obtain employee information. For example, cloud platform 220
may communicate with a remote server of a social media website using an application
programming interface (API) to obtain information regarding the employee, such as a
resume, a set of social media acquaintances (e.g., a set of social media friends, connections,
or followers), or the like. In this way, by automatically obtaining employee information, cloud
platform 220 may reduce a utilization of computing resources relative to another technique
where employee information is manually entered via a user interface.
[00116]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may obtain a particular type of
employee information.       For example, cloud platform 220 may obtain skills information
regarding a set of skills of the employee, of another employee, or the like. In this case, cloud
platform 220 may automatically determine a set of skills of the employee based on identifying
a set of roles of the employee (e.g., a set of tasks completed by the employee for the
organization, a set of roles previously held by the employee, or the like), and may analyze
the set of roles using a skills data model to identify skills corresponding to the set of roles

                                                 36
being completed.      Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may obtain priorities
information regarding the employee, another employee, or the like. For example, cloud
platform 220 may provide a user interface, via client device 210, with which to receive
information identifying short-term priorities (e.g., priorities relating to a particular work
assignment), long-term priorities (e.g., priorities relating to an employee's career), or the like.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may determine strengths of an employee
corresponding to an employee's personality, innate talents, or the like (e.g., based on
processing a data structure identifying responses to a set of questionnaire questions, based
on providing questionnaire questions, etc.).
[00117]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may dynamically alter a set of
prompts based on one or more responses to the set of prompts. For example, based on
receiving a particular response indicating a particular strength of an employee, cloud platform
220 may select a group of follow-up prompts based on a data structure linkage indicating a
set of dependencies associated with the set of prompts (e.g., a linked list or a tree) to
determine a level of the particular strength of the employee. In this case, cloud platform 220
may generate the group of follow-up prompts based on processing information identifying
the set of dependencies between prompts of the set of prompts. In this way, cloud platform
220 reduces a utilization of computing resources relative to another technique by not
providing prompts that will not result in receiving desired information.
[00118]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may obtain employee information
relating to performance achievement. For example, cloud platform 220 may obtain employee
information indicating whether an employee satisfied a task or achievement associated with
a priority relating to a particular period of time. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform
220 may obtain employee information indicating a level of performance of an employee, such
as information identifying a set of sales figures, a set of performance evaluations, a set of
client feedback reports, a set of production metrics, or the like.
[00119]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may utilize a machine learning
technique to obtain the employee information indicating the level of performance of the
employee. For example, cloud platform 220 may obtain audio data from a recording of a

                                               37
peer coaching session (e.g., after transmitting a notification that the peer coaching session
is to be recorded to each participant in the peer coaching session), and may apply a speech
recognition technique to generate a transcript document of the peer coaching session. In
this case, cloud platform 220 may apply a type of machine learning technique, such as a
natural language processing technique, a term extraction technique, or the like to the
transcript document to generate a set of priorities discussed during the peer coaching
session, an evaluation of employee performance discussed during the peer coaching
session or the like.
[00120]    As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include analyzing the employee
information using an analytical data model to determine output information regarding the
employee and relating to improving employee performance (block 420). For example, cloud
platform 220 may analyze the employee information using the analytical data model (e.g.,
an analytical data model of employee achievement) to determine the output information
regarding the employee and relating to improving employee performance.               In some
implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate the analytical data model based on the
employee information. For example, cloud platform 220 may identify a set of employees
associated with a threshold level of employee achievement (e.g., a threshold level of sales,
a threshold level of client feedback, or a particular engagement level, such as a numerical
engagement level, a threshold engagement level, such as a high threshold, a middle
threshold, a low threshold, or the like, etc.) or an improving level of performance
achievement, may generate an analytical data model for identifying attributes associated
with the threshold level of employee achievement (e.g., performance achievement). In this
way, cloud platform 220 may identify high engagement levels for employees from which high
team performance may be determined, and/or identify low engagement levels for which
recommendations are more likely to result in improving team performance (e.g., when the
low engagement levels are improved by the recommendations).
[00121]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate the analytical data
model based on employee information relating to employees of another organization. For
example, based on receiving employee information relating to one or more other
organizations associated with a threshold similarity to the organization (e.g., based on

                                                 38
calculating a similarity score), cloud platform 220 may analyze the employee information to
generate attributes corresponding to a threshold level of performance achievement at the
one or more other organizations. In this case, cloud platform 220 may generate the analytical
data model to generate one or more attributes that may be obtained by a particular person
based on a set of current attributes relating to the particular person based on employee
information identifying a change in attributes over time (e.g., information indicating attributes
acquired by other employees based on training programs or tasks assigned to the other
employees).
[00122]    As a particular example, cloud platform 220 may determine a model of a
correlation or a pattern of employee attributes to performance for a first company, may
identify a second company, and may use the model of correlations or patterns to identify
recommendations for employees of the second company to improve employee performance
at the second company. In this way, cloud platform 220 may process millions or billions of
data points relating to hundreds or thousands of factors in employee performance to identify
performance improvements for employees of a company.
[00123]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate the analytical data
model using a machine learning technique, such as a natural language processing technique
(e.g., to obtain data for the analytical data model), a pattern recognition technique, a
regression technique, or the like. For example, based on information regarding performance
of employees at an organization and/or one or more similar organizations, cloud platform
220 may utilize a machine learning technique to generate associations between attributes of
employees (e.g., a strength, a priority, or a level of engagement) that correspond to threshold
levels or improving levels of performance by the employee. In some implementations, cloud
platform 220 may validate the analytical data model. For example, cloud platform 220 may
determine a predicted effect of viewing a training course based on an analytical data model
generated using a portion of information, and may identify, in another portion of information,
an employee who viewed the training course. In this case, cloud platform 220 may validate
that the predicted effect corresponds to an observed effect on the employee.

                                                39
[00124]     Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may generate the analytical data
model based on employee information relating to one or more employees similar to the
employee. For example, cloud platform 220 may identify one or more other employees with
a threshold similarity to the employee (e.g., one or more employees sharing a common role,
a common level of experience, a common set of skills or strengths, or a common
compensation level). In this case, cloud platform 220 may determine one or more attributes
of the one or more other employees that correspond to the one or more other employees
satisfying the threshold level of performance achievement based on the analytical data
model.
[00125]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may obtain the analytical data model
from a data structure. For example, based on generating the analytical data model, cloud
platform 220 may store the analytical data model via a data structure. In this case, cloud
platform 220 may obtain the analytical data model when cloud platform 220 is to analyze the
employee information. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may communicate
with another device, such as another cloud platform 220, client device 210, or the like to
obtain the analytical data model.      For example, a first cloud platform 220 may generate
analytical data model for assessing employees of a first organization and may communicate
with a second cloud platform 220 to provide the analytical data model for assessing
employees of a second organization.
[00126]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may analyze the employee
information to determine a set of alerts. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine,
based on employee information identifying a date of a feedback session regarding
performance of the employee, that a threshold amount of time has elapsed from the date of
the feedback session, and may determine that the employee is to be scheduled for another
feedback session. In this case, cloud platform 220 may select the threshold amount of time
between feedback sessions based on the employee's performance, based on one or more
attributes of the employee, or the like. For example, for an employee who has satisfied a
threshold level of performance achievement for a threshold period of time and who is
determined to be on a trend to satisfy the threshold level of performance achievement, cloud
platform 220 may select a relatively long period of time between feedback sessions.

                                                    40
Similarly, for an employee who is not determined to satisfy the threshold level of performance
achievement, cloud platform 220 may select a relatively short period of time between
feedback sessions, thereby customizing alerts generated to identify a new feedback session
time being scheduled and reducing a likelihood that the employee fails to satisfy the
threshold level of performance achievement as a result of insufficient feedback. In another
example, for an employee associated with a strength relating to self-motivation, cloud
platform 220 may select a relatively long period of time between feedback sessions relative
to another employee associated with a weakness relating to self-motivation.
[00127]      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may analyze the employee
information to generate a set of recommendations. For example, cloud platform 220 may
analyze the employee information using the analytical data model to generate a set of
attributes corresponding to satisfying a threshold level of performance achievement, such as
a set of priorities, a set of skills, or the like, and may select a particular attribute to identify to
the employee and/or assist the employee in achieving based on employee information
regarding the employee.        In this case, cloud platform 220 may select output information
associated with causing the employee to adopt the particular attribute. For example, cloud
platform 220 may determine, based on the analytical data model, that a first group of
employees with a first group of skills satisfy a threshold likelihood of achieving a second
group of skills, which correspond to satisfying a threshold level of performance achievement
(e.g., employees with the second group of skills are associated with a threshold likelihood of
satisfying the threshold level of performance achievement), based on attending a training
program. In this case, cloud platform 220 may provide a recommendation that a particular
employee associated with the first group of skills attend the training program to gain the
second group of skills.
[00128]      Although described herein in terms of using a data model (e.g., an analytical data
model), cloud platform 220 may utilize another technique to analyze information, such as an
artificial intelligence technique, a supervised learning technique, a regression technique, a
machine learning technique, or the like.

                                              41
[00129]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine a set of scores for a
set of recommendations, and may select a particular recommendation based on the set of
scores. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine, based on the analytical data model,
a likelihood of a particular recommendation improving employee performance for a particular
employee, and may determine a score for the particular recommendation based on the
likelihood. Similarly, cloud platform 220 may determine, based on the analytical data model,
a likelihood of the particular recommendation being implemented (e.g., a likelihood of
adoption) by the particular employee based on employee engagement, and may determine
a score for the particular recommendation based on the likelihood. In some implementations,
cloud platform 220 may determine a score for the particular recommendation based on
multiple factors, such as a likelihood of improving employee performance, a likelihood of
implementation by the particular employee, a schedule availability of the particular
employee, a cost to implement the particular recommendation, or the like. In this way, cloud
platform 220 may reduce computing resources by providing a recommendation that is likely
to be used, successful, or the like relative to another technique that may provide multiple
recommendations based on recommendations being rejected, unsuccessful, or the like.
[00130]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may select a particular type of
recommendation based on analyzing the employee information. For example, cloud platform
220 may select a recommendation relating to altering an action plan for an employee, altering
a role for an employee, realigning a set of priorities of an employee, or the like. In some
implementations, cloud platform 220 may select a recommendation relating to identifying
attributes of other employees associated with satisfying a threshold level of performance
achievement. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine one or more priorities that
are associated with other employees and which can be adopted by the employee, and may
provide information identifying the one or more priorities to realign a set of priorities of the
employee to include the one or more priorities. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform
220 may select a recommendation relating to providing a training program.
[00131]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may select a recommendation
relating to employee interaction.        For example, cloud platform 220 may select a
recommendation that includes scheduling a feedback session, scheduling a coaching

                                                 42
session, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may select another
employee for the employee interaction based on skills of the employee and/or the other
employee.       For example, cloud platform 220 may determine that a first employee is
associated with a first set of skills, and may select a second employee associated with a
second set of skills as a coach, a mentor, or the like for the first employee. In this case,
cloud platform 220 may determine that the second employee with the second set of skills is
associated with a threshold likelihood of improving performance for the first employee with
the first set of skills based on the analytical data model.
[00132]     As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing an individual
achievement user interface for the employee including output information regarding the
employee (block 430).         For example, cloud platform 220 may provide the individual
achievement user interface for the employee including the output information regarding the
employee.      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide, via the individual
achievement user interface, information          regarding the employee via the individual
achievement user interface.        For example, cloud platform 220 may provide information
regarding strengths of the employee, priorities of the employee, or the like based on
determining the employee information. In this way, cloud platform 220 ensures transparency
in employee evaluation and future growth opportunities for an organization and the
employee.
[00133]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate a user interface to
provide the individual achievement user interface including the output information regarding
the employee. For example, cloud platform 220 may select the user interface from a set of
user interface templates to correspond to the recommendation. In some implementations,
cloud platform 220 may select a particular set of modules for the user interface, such as a
gamification module, a social sharing module, a strengths or skills information module, a
recommendation module, an alerts module, or the like. In some implementations, cloud
platform 220 may automatically scale one or more modules of the user interface, such as
based on a quantity of information that is to be provided via a module, a quantity of
recommendations, a quantity of strengths, or the like.

                                                 43
[00134]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide, via the individual
achievement user interface, information relating to attributes associated with a threshold
level of performance achievement. For example, cloud platform 220 may provide information
identifying a set of priorities corresponding to the threshold level of performance achievement
(e.g., an employee with a particular priority is determined to have a threshold likelihood of
achieving the threshold level performance achievement). Similarly, cloud platform 220 may
provide information identifying a set of skills or strengths corresponding to the threshold level
of performance achievement. In this way, cloud platform 220 provides information that may
be utilized by an employee to improve employee performance by adopting priorities, adopting
skills, developing strengths, or the like of other employees that achieve a threshold level of
performance achievement.
[00135]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide a subset of available
information via the individual achievement user interface. For example, cloud platform 220
may select a quantity of recommendations to provide, and may provide the quantity of
recommendations to avoid requiring the employee to navigate multiple screens of the
individual achievement user interface.        In this way, cloud platform 220 may reduce a
utilization of computing resources relative to transmitting all available information, requiring
the employee to navigate multiple screens to view all available information, or the like.
[00136]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide, via the user interface,
information generating a recommendation. For example, cloud platform 220 may generate
a recommendation identifying a training program for the employee, a coaching session for
the employee, or the like, and may provide identifying information via the user interface. In
this case, cloud platform 220 may determine another employee sharing a common priority
with the employee (e.g., completing a particular task), and may provide information
identifying the other employee to facilitate a conversation to discuss the common priority. In
some implementations, cloud platform 220 may implement the recommendation, and may
provide output information associated with implementing the recommendation. For example,
cloud platform 220 may detect a user interaction with the user interface (e.g., an interaction
by the employee, by a supervisor, or by a mentor) associated with accepting the
recommendation, and may cause the recommendation to be implemented.                     In some

                                                 44
implementations, cloud platform 220 may automatically implement the recommendation. For
example, cloud platform 220 may automatically generate a calendar event for the employee
and a supervisor, and may communicate with a set of client devices 210 to cause the
calendar event to be provided for display to the employee and the supervisor.
[00137]     Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may automatically cause a
training program to be provided to the employee. For example, cloud platform 220 may
search a data structure of training programs, the Internet, or the like to identify a training
program relating to a particular skill, and may cause the training program to be provided for
playback to the employee to cause the employee to obtain the particular strength.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may identify an in-person training program,
and may automatically communicate with another device (e.g., a registration server) to
register the     employee      for the  training   program, to reserve    transportation   and
accommodation, to provide payment, or the like.
[00138]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may automatically cause a
recommendation relating to employee retention or compensation to be implemented. For
example, based on determining that a first employee is associated with a threshold likelihood
of satisfying a first level of performance achievement, cloud platform 220 may cause a first
level of compensation to be selected for the first employee, and may automatically alter a
compensation data structure to implement the first level of compensation. In this case, cloud
platform 220 may alter the compensation data structure to implement a second level of
compensation for a second employee associated with a second level of performance
achievement.
[00139]     Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[00140]     Figs. 5A-5C are diagrams of an example implementation 500 relating to example
process 400 shown in Fig. 4. Figs. 5A-5C show an example of providing a user interface

                                                   45
(e.g., an individual achievement user interface) to enable performance achievement for an
employee of an organization.
[00141]     As shown in Fig. 5A, cloud platform 220 provides, via a set of client devices 210,
a priorities and self-reflection survey relating to determining priorities of a set of employees.
For example, cloud platform 220 may select, for display via client device 210-1 to a particular
employee, a particular set of prompts regarding priorities of the employee, and may cause
the particular set of prompts to be provided for display via user interface 505 of client device
210-1. Based on detecting a set of user interactions with user interface 505 of client device
210-1, cloud platform 220 may receive a set of responses to the particular set of prompts,
and may process the set of responses to determine a set of priorities of the particular
employee.      Assume that cloud platform 220 stores the set of responses for subsequent
utilization via a data structure (e.g., a priorities database).
[00142]     As shown in Fig. 5B, cloud platform 220 receives employee information from a set
of databases 510, such as receiving engagement information from engagement database
510-1, strengths information from strengths database 510-2, and priorities information from
priorities database 510-3. As shown by reference number 515, cloud platform 220 processes
the employee information using an analytical data model to generate output information to
improve employee performance. As shown by reference number 520, based on generating
the output information, cloud platform 220 causes client device 210-2 (e.g., being utilized by
a supervisor of the employee), to provide an individual achievement user interface 525.
Cloud platform 220 provides, via individual achievement user interface 525, an alert (e.g., a
growth recommendation notification) indicating that a particular set of recommendations are
generated for the employee and a team that includes the employee. Based on determining
an alteration to a team, cloud platform 220 provides, via individual achievement user
interface 525, a set of recommendations to re-align the team that includes the employee
(e.g., to reassign work to ensure that the work is completed), that the employee is to be
provided a training program, that the employee is to be offered an award for achieving a
threshold productivity increase, and that the employee is to be provided a peer coaching
session with another employee (e.g., selected based on one or more strengths of the
employee and/or the other employee).              Assume that cloud platform 220 detects an

                                               46
interaction    with   user  interface   520   associated   with   implementing   the  set   of
recommendations.
[00143]     As further shown in Fig. 5B, and by reference number 530, based on detecting the
interaction with user interface 520, cloud platform provides a user interface 535 for display
to the employee via client device 210-1. User interface 535 includes information identifying
a new role for the employee (e.g., based on cloud platform 220 automatically realigning the
team), the training program, the award, and the coaching session.         User interface 535
includes information identifying a set of attributes of other employees determined to be
important for the employee, such as a set of priorities that can be adopted by the employee,
a set of skills that can be obtained by the employee (e.g., by viewing the training program),
or the like.
[00144]     As shown in Fig. 5C, cloud platform 220 provides, in advance of the peer coaching
session (e.g., or, in another example, another type of coaching session), a user interface
540 including enablement content for the peer coaching session (e.g., to improve an
effectiveness of the peer coaching session). For example, cloud platform 220 provides
information identifying a set of conversation starters for display to the other employee to
identify performance of the employee, such as performance of the employee, priorities of the
employee, attributes to be adopted by the employee, or the like. Cloud platform 220 provides
information identifying promotion criteria for the employee selected based on an employee
priority, organizational expectations for the employee determined based on roles associated
to the employee or the like. Cloud platform 220 provides, via user interface 540, a user
interface element for receiving feedback based on the peer coaching session, which may be
parsed by cloud platform 220 using a natural language processing technique to identify
results of the peer coaching session and update employee information regarding the
employee.
[00145]     As indicated above, Figs. 5A-5C are provided merely as an example.          Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 5A-5C.
[00146]     In this way, cloud platform 220 provides a personalized individual achievement
user interface including information to improve employee performance of an employee.

                                                47
Moreover, cloud platform 220 provides information identifying priorities, skills, strengths,
and/or engagement of the employee to improve employee understanding of personal
performance relative to another technique for employee evaluations. Furthermore, based
on processing priorities information, skills information, engagement information, or the like,
cloud platform 220 provides information identifying attributes of high achieving employees
(e.g., employees satisfying a threshold level of performance achievement), thereby
permitting an employee to implement the attributes for the employee (e.g., the employee
may adopt one or more of the attributes to attempt to improve performance).
[00147]     In this way, cloud platform 220 improves employee performance relative to another
technique for employee management, thereby improving a likelihood of employee retention
and reducing a utilization of computing resources relating to finding and/or training a new
employee.       Moreover, based on improving employee performance, cloud platform 220
reduces a utilization of computing resources (e.g., processing resources and/or memory
resources) associated with completing projects (e.g., software development projects,
analysis projects, or design projects), relative to being required to expend computing
resources to complete and fix projects performed by lower performing employees for whom
a personalized individual achievement user interface is not provided.
[00148]     Fig. 6 is a flow chart of an example process 600 for providing a user interface to
enable performance achievement for a team of employees of an organization.              In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 6 may be performed by cloud platform
220. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 6 may be performed by
another device or a group of devices separate from or including cloud platform 220, such as
client device 210 and/or server 260.
[00149]     As shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include receiving employee information for
a set of employees of a team (block 610). For example, cloud platform 220 may receive
employee information (e.g., individual strengths information, individual priorities information,
and/or individual engagement information) for the set of employees of the team (e.g., a group
of entities, such as a group of employees). In some implementations, cloud platform 220
may obtain the employee information from a data structure.         For example, when cloud

                                              48
platform 220 is to provide a user interface including information regarding an employee,
cloud platform 220 may obtain employee information from an organization data structure,
such as a human resources data structure, a human capital management data structure, a
compensation data structure, a data structure storing results of a set of questionnaires, or
the like.
[00150]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 determine employee information
based on providing a questionnaire.      For example, cloud platform 220 may generate a
questionnaire regarding employee strengths, employee priorities, or employee engagement,
and may provide the questionnaire for display via a user interface.       In this case, cloud
platform 220 may detect an interaction with the user interface associated with indicating a
response to the questionnaire, and may determine the employee information based on the
response to the questionnaire. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may cause
information identifying a status of the questionnaire (e.g., a response rate, a quantity of
missing responses, or a quantity of employees who have responded) to be included in a
team achievement user interface to permit a team manager to ensure that team members
provide up-to-date and accurate information for managing a team.
[00151]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may parse a result of the
questionnaire using a machine learning technique to determine the employee information.
For example, cloud platform 220 may utilize a natural language processing technique to
generate a particular employee priority from a text-based answer to a questionnaire prompt
regarding employee priorities. Similarly, cloud platform 220 may utilize a sentiment analysis
technique to determine a level of employee engagement (or engagement of a team to which
the employee is assigned) based on a set of responses to a set of questions. For example,
cloud platform 220 may provide a question, for display via a user interface, relating to
employee satisfaction and may utilize the sentiment analysis to determine whether an
employee is happy with the employee's job, upset with the employee's job, or the like.
[00152]    In some     implementations,   cloud platform   220 may determine        employee
information based on obtaining information regarding a set of roles of a set of employees.
For example, cloud platform 220 may obtain information identifying a set of roles of a set of

                                                49
employees (e.g., a set of work assignments for a set of projects, such as a particular
employee being assigned to a developer role, a tester role, or a manager role), and may
determine a set of skills for the set of employees based on the set of roles. In this case,
cloud platform 220 may determine a level of skill of a particular employee based on
determining that the employee worked in a particular role associated with requiring the skill
or developing the skill for a threshold period of time, and may calculate a proficiency level of
an employee based on the level of skill.
[00153]     In some implementations, an employee may be categorized (e.g., by cloud
platform 220) into a group based on the employee information. The group may refer to a set
of strengths for which an employee satisfies a threshold level of proficiency. For example,
cloud platform 220 may categorize an employee as having a strength for achievement, belief,
consistency, and/or focus, as having a strength for communication, competition, and/or self
assurance, a strength for adaptability, connectedness, harmony, and/or empathy, a strength
for analytics, future-thinking, learning, and/or strategy, or the like. In another example, cloud
platform 220 may receive a categorization of an employee into a group from another server
that performs categorizations of strengths. In another example, cloud platform 220 may
categorize employees into another type of group or based on another grouping of strengths.
[00154]     In this way, cloud platform 220 may generate a profile for an employee that may
be used to market the employee to a client, to determine a role for the employee, for the
employee to use in negotiating for a promotion, or the like. In this way, cloud platform 220
may account for an interplay between multiple strengths of an employee, and may provide
information that may improve an ability of an organization to obtain work and may improve
employee satisfaction with organizational transparency, relative to information regarding
groups of strengths remaining opaque to the organization or the employee.
[00155]    As shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include determining team information based
on the employee information (block 620). For example, cloud platform 220 may determine
the team information based on the employee information. In some implementations, cloud
platform 220 may determine a particular type of team information based on the employee
information. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine a set of team priorities based

                                                50
on one or more priorities of the set of employees of the team. Additionally, or alternatively,
cloud platform 220 may determine a set of team strengths for a team of employees (e.g., a
team of entities) based one or more strengths of the set of employees of the team, team
engagement based on engagement information of the set of employees of the team, or the
like. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine the team information
based on information obtained from a data structure. For example, cloud platform 220 may
obtain information identifying a set of team priorities that are different from the one or more
priorities of the set of employees of the team.
[00156]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may process the employee
information to determine the team information.         For example, cloud platform 220 may
process information identifying strengths of each employee of the team to determine team
strengths for the team. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine the
team strengths based on an average strength of each employee of the team for a set of
types of strengths. For example, when cloud platform 220 determines that a first employee
of the team is associated with a relatively high level of communication strength (e.g., the first
employee has a communication strength, and relative to other employees with the
communication strength, the first employee is determined to be a better communicator) and
a second employee of the team is associated with a relatively low level of communication
strength (e.g., relative to another person), cloud platform 220 may determine that the team
is, collectively, associated with a relatively medium level of communication strength based
on communication strengths (or a lack thereof) among employees of the team. In this way,
cloud platform 220 accounts for each employee having awareness of where the teams have
greater and/or lesser strengths, so that the teams can determine how to utilize and/or
compensate for the greater and/or lesser strengths.
[00157]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine the team strengths
based on a set of top strengths for each employee of the team. For example, when the first
employee is associated with the relatively high level of communication strength and the
second employee is associated with the relatively low level of communication strength, cloud
platform 220 may determine that the team is associated with the relatively high level of
communication strength. In this way, cloud platform 220 accounts for a member of the team

                                                51
with a highest level of strength for a particular set of strengths and can recommend that
employee being assigned to complete a task requiring the particular set of strengths on
behalf of the team.
[00158]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine the team strengths
based on another technique. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine the team
strengths based on a combination of averaging strengths and determining top strengths.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may determine the team strengths based on
a combination of multiple levels of strength for multiple employees of the team. For example,
when a first employee and a second employee are each associated with a medium level of
communication strength, cloud platform 220 may determine a high level of communication
strength for the team. In this way, cloud platform 220 accounts for an effect of multiple
employees working together on a task requiring a particular strength (e.g., multiple
employees with a medium level of communication strength can perform at a similar level to
a single employee with a high level of communication strength).
[00159]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may categorize a team based on a
group to which an employee of the team is categorized. For example, cloud platform 220
may categorize the team as a strategic thinking team based on one or more employees of
the team being categorized as strategic thinkers.          Similarly, cloud platform 220 may
categorize the team as an influencing team based on one or more employees of the team
being categorized as influencers. In this way, cloud platform 220 identifies a group dynamic
associated with an interplay of multiple strengths of one or more employees.         Moreover,
cloud platform 220 determines information that may be utilized to assign teams to roles,
obtain client work for teams, provide transparency toward team direction to team employees,
or the like.
[00160]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may apply a set of weights to a set
of factors to categorize the team. For example, cloud platform 220 may weight employee
strengths based on a confidence metric relating to an accuracy of a strengths determination,
an amount of time an employee has been working at the organization, a matching metric
associated with an extent to which an employee's skills align with a set of skills required for

                                                52
a task, or the like. In this case, cloud platform 220 may determine that a first skill level of a
first employee in code testing is associated with a first confidence value (e.g., based on data
from which the first skill was determined) and that a second skill level of a second employee
in code testing is associated with a second, lower confidence value, and may weight the first
skill level more highly than the second skill level in determining an overall skill level for the
team that includes the first employee and the second employee.
[00161]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may remove an employee from a
calculation of a categorization of a team based on a weighting factor. For example, when
an employee does not satisfy a threshold value for a factor (e.g., a threshold confidence
metric or a threshold amount of time employed), cloud platform 220 may remove information
regarding the employee from a calculation of a team categorization, thereby reducing a
utilization of computing resources relative to another technique.
[00162]     As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include processing the team
information using analytical data model to generate a set of recommendations for the team
(block 630). For example, cloud platform 220 may process the team information using the
analytical data model (e.g., an analytical data model of team achievement) to generate the
set of recommendations for the team. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may
generate the analytical data model associated with team achievement. For example, cloud
platform 220 may analyze employee information and/or team information relating to a set of
employees of an organization, a set of teams of the organization, or the like, to generate one
or more attributes of teams satisfying a threshold level of performance achievement.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may analyze employee information and/or
team information relating to a set of employees or a set of teams of another organization.
For example, cloud platform 220 may identify a similar organization to the organization (e.g.,
based on an industry, an organization size, an organization profitability, an organization
location, or an organization structure), and may generate the analytical data model based
on attributes that correspond to the threshold level of performance achievement (e.g., one
or more priorities, one or more skills, and/or a level of engagement that corresponds to a
threshold likelihood of a team satisfying a threshold level of performance achievement). In
some implementations, cloud platform 220 may utilize a technique other than or in

                                               53
combination with an analytical data model, such as an artificial intelligence technique, a
machine learning technique, or the like.
[00163]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate the analytical data
model of team achievement using a machine learning technique, such as a natural language
processing technique (e.g., to obtain data for the analytical data model), a pattern recognition
technique, a regression technique, or the like. For example, based on information regarding
performance of teams of employees at an organization and/or one or more similar
organizations, cloud platform 220 may utilize a machine learning technique to generate
associations between attributes of teams of employees (e.g., a team strength, a team priority,
or a level of team engagement) that correspond to threshold levels of performance by the
team.     Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may determine an association
between multiple skills of the team. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine that a
combination of multiple skills, when possessed by a team of employees, result in improved
levels of team performance relative to another combination of multiple skills.          In some
implementations, cloud platform 220 may validate the analytical data model. For example,
cloud platform 220 may determine a predicted effect of viewing a training course based on
an analytical data model generated using a portion of information, and may identify, in
another portion of information, an employee who viewed the training course. In this case,
cloud platform 220 may validate that the predicted effect corresponds to an observed effect
on the employee. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate and/or use
the analytical data model of team achievement in a similar manner to the analytical data
model of individual achievement, described herein with regard to Fig. 4.
[00164]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may process the team information
using the analytical data model to determine a recommendation regarding the team. For
example, based on determining that teams including a first employee categorized as having
a first group of strengths employee and a second employee categorized as having a second
group of strengths tend to perform better relative to other teams, cloud platform 220 may
generate a recommendation relating to reassigning employees to ensure that each team has
employees with the first group of strengths and with the second group of strengths. In this

                                                  54
way, cloud platform 220 generates a recommendation to improve team achievement based
on information relating to dynamics of multiple employees of a team.
[00165]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may process the team information
to determine a recommendation relating to a team coaching session. For example, cloud
platform 220 may determine that a first employee of the team and a second employee of the
team are associated with conflicting priorities, and may schedule a coaching session with a
team supervisor for the first employee and the second employee to cause the conflicting
priorities to be realigned. In this case, cloud platform 220 may automatically generate a
guidance document for the coaching session based on generating a recommendation to
schedule the coaching session.           For example, cloud platform 220 may automatically
generate a document identifying team priorities, employee performance, team achievement,
discussion topics, or the like to assist the supervisor in the coaching session. In this way,
cloud platform 220 generates a recommendation to improve team achievement with an
increased accuracy relative to generating recommendations for a team without accounting
for interpersonal dynamics of the team.
[00166]     Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may determine a recommendation
relating to a group discussion for the team (e.g., to discuss employee aspirations, employee
passions, employee long term goals, or the like, which may result in improved employee
engagement and job satisfaction based on improved transparency).            For example, cloud
platform 220 may determine that team achievement can be improved based on improved
transparency of team priorities and team strengths, and may determine that a group
discussion of team priorities and team strengths is to be scheduled to improve transparency.
In this case, cloud platform 220 may provide information identifying a set of group discussion
topics for display via a team achievement user interface provided to multiple client devices
210 utilized by multiple employees of the team to facilitate the group discussion.
[00167]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may process the team information
to determine a recommendation relating to balancing and/or compensating for gaps in team
strengths. For example, for a team that has a lesser number of employees with a set of
strengths, cloud platform 220 may recommend an action to analyze whether that could be a

                                               55
barrier to the team's performance and may recommend potential mitigation actions (e.g.,
existing employees using their unique combinations of strengths to address the gap, bringing
in a new team member with a set of strengths that complements the team, or the like).
[00168]    As another example, cloud platform 220 may utilize the analytical data model to
determine an effect of a particular set of strengths of the set of employees on team
achievement (e.g., a prediction regarding team achievement), and may provide a
recommendation relating to improving one or more strengths to improve team achievement.
In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine a recommendation relating to
improving a strength for which the team lacks an employee with a threshold level of strength.
For example, cloud platform 220 may determine that a team lacks an employee with a
threshold level of strength in negotiation, and may recommend a training program for an
employee of the team so that the employee may gain the threshold level of strength in
negotiation. In this case, cloud platform 220 may select the employee based on determining
that one or more other strengths of the employee cause the employee to be predicted to be
mostly likely to improve negotiation skills based on viewing the training program. Based on
increasing an accuracy of selection of employees for training sessions relative to another
technique for selecting a training session for an employee, cloud platform 220 reduces a
likelihood of requiring multiple employees to view the training session based on repeated
failures, thereby reducing computing resources relative to multiple employees being
provided the training session and failing to acquire a threshold level of strength in an
associated skill
[00169]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may process the team information
to generate a recommendation relating to providing recognition to an employee of the set of
employees.     For example, cloud platform 220 may determine, using the analytical data
model, that improving a level of engagement of a particular employee of the team (or
engagement of the team that includes the employee) is associated with a threshold increase
to team achievement for the team and/or for one or more other employees of the team. In
this case, cloud platform 220 may provide a recommendation relating to providing public
recognition of the particular employee, such as organizing a party, providing additional
compensation, providing an award, or the like to improve the level of engagement of the

                                                 56
particular employee.       In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may automatically
schedule an event for the public recognition, order food for the event, reserve a location for
the event, transmit a set of invitations for display via a set of client devices, or the like.
[00170]    As further shown in Fig. 6, process 600 may include providing a team achievement
user interface based on processing the team information to generate the set of
recommendations for the team (block 640). For example, cloud platform 220 may generate
the team achievement user interface based on processing the team information to generate
the set of recommendations.       In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide
multiple views of the team achievement user interface for multiple users of the team
achievement user interface. For example, cloud platform 220 may provide a supervisor view
of the team achievement user interface including information relating to an engagement
survey (e.g., information identifying a status of the engagement survey, results of the
engagement survey, or trends of the engagement survey), a set of team strengths (e.g.,
information identifying a status of a strengths assessment survey, a set of individual
strengths, or a set of team strengths), or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform
220 may provide an employee view of the team achievement user interface including
information relating to a coaching session (e.g., scheduling information or preparation
information), information relating to a team action plan (e.g., a set of tasks to be completed
by an employee, a set of training programs to be viewed by the employee, or a set of team
building activities for the employee), or the like.
[00171]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide information identifying
the set of recommendations via the team achievement user interface. For example, cloud
platform 220 may provide information identifying a recommendation relating to training,
team-building, peer coaching, or the like. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may
generate a score, and may provide information identifying a score for a recommendation.
For example, cloud platform 220 may provide information associated with ranking a set of
recommendations based on a priority of the set of recommendations, a feasibility of the set
of recommendations, a cost of the set of recommendations, a time required to implement the
set of recommendations, a predicted benefit of the set of recommendations, or the like. In
this case, cloud platform 220 may select a particular recommendation, of the set of

                                               57
recommendations, based on a corresponding score, of a set of scores for the set of
recommendations, and may provide information identifying the particular recommendation.
[00172]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide a recommendation
relating to team priorities via the team achievement user interface.      For example, cloud
platform 220 may provide information indicating a set of team priorities for the team, such as
one or more priorities of multiple employees of the set of employees, one or more priorities
relating to tasks to be completed by the team, or the like. In some implementations, cloud
platform 220 may provide a recommendation relating to rewards (e.g.., either monetary or
non-monetary rewards, such as recognition, promotion, trophies, announcements, etc.) via
the team achievement user interface. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine that
an employee of the team has a performance impact such that they increase effectiveness of
other employees of the team, and may recommend a reward or recognition scheme for the
employee based on determining that the employee has demonstrated such a performance
impact. In this way, by focusing on contributions of performance to other team members
determined to affect team achievement, cloud platform 220 assesses employees of a team
in a more comprehensive manner relative to another technique that only utilizes sales figures
or performance reviews.
[00173]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide, via the team
achievement user interface, a set of surveys to assess the set of employees in an ongoing
manner and permit cloud platform 220 to provide information via a user interface to permit a
supervisor to understand the set of employees.         For example, cloud platform 220 may
determine a recommendation to reassess a level of engagement of the set of employees of
the team to permit a supervisor to understand the level of engagement, and may generate
an engagement survey. In this case, cloud platform 220 may cause the engagement survey
to be provided for display via the team achievement user interface (e.g., via client device
210), and may store results as updated employee information. Additionally, or alternatively,
cloud platform 220 may provide a strengths survey via the team achievement user interface
to reassess a set of skills or strengths of the set of employees. In this way cloud platform
220 may reduce a utilization of computing resources by ensuring accurate, up-to-date

                                               58
information, relative to another technique that uses out-of-date information to make
subsequent determinations of recommendations for a team.
[00174]    Although Fig. 6 shows example blocks of process 600, in some implementations,
process 600 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 6. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 600 may be performed in parallel.
[00175]    Figs. 7A-7C are diagrams of an example implementation 700 relating to example
process 600 shown in Fig. 6. Figs. 7A-7C show an example of providing a user interface to
enable performance achievement for a team of employees of an organization.
[00176]    As shown in Fig. 7A, cloud platform 220 provides, via a set of client devices 210,
an engagement survey relating to determining engagement levels of a set of employees.
For example, cloud platform 220 may select, for display via client device 210-1 to a particular
employee, a particular set of prompts regarding engagement of the employee, and may
cause the particular set of prompts to be provided for display via user interface 705 of client
device 210-1. Based on detecting a set of user interactions with user interface 705 of client
device 210-1, cloud platform 220 may receive a set of responses to the particular set of
prompts, and may process the set of responses to determine a level of engagement of the
particular employee.    Assume that cloud platform 220 stores the set of responses for
subsequent utilization via a data structure (e.g., an engagement database).
[00177]    As shown in Fig. 7B, and by reference number 710, cloud platform 220 receives
strengths information and priorities from a set of databases 715. For example, cloud platform
220 receives strengths information from strengths database 715-1 and priorities information
from priorities database 715-2 regarding a set of employees of a team.          As shown by
reference number 720, cloud platform 220 determines team information and generates a
team achievement user interface including a set of recommendations relating to improving
team achievement. For example, cloud platform 220 determines a team action plan including
a set of recommendations for the team, a team training recommendation, or the like.

                                               59
[00178]      As further shown in Fig. 7B, and by reference number 725, provides, via the team
achievement user interface, the team action plan for the team. The team action plan includes
a set of recommendations for improving team achievement, such as a recommendation
relating to improving engagement and a recommendation relating to improving transparency.
The recommendation relating to improving engagement (e.g., Volunteer Work) is provided
via the user interface of client device 210-1, and cloud platform 220 provides an indication
of a potential benefit of implementing the recommendation relating to improving engagement
(e.g., improving a turnover rate and an absenteeism rate of the team). In this way, cloud
platform 220 provides information relating to managing a team to reduce a likelihood of
attrition and/or to reduce absenteeism, thereby reducing an amount of time to complete
tasks, an expense associated with training replacement employees, and a utilization of
computing resources associated with completing and/or revising tasks by less skilled and/or
newer employees.
[00179]       As further shown in Fig. 7B, and by reference number 730, cloud platform 220
may provide a training recommendation for a particular employee utilizing client device 210
1 to improve employee engagement and improve performance achievement for the team.
For example, cloud platform 220 recommends that the manager view a training program
regarding utilization of vacation time and well-being initiatives to improve management of the
team.     In another example, cloud platform 220 may recommend additional resources be
provided to an overworked team to improve engagement of the team. As shown by reference
number 735, cloud platform 220 provides information associated with the team, such as
information identifying an engagement score for the team, information identifying levels of
skill for employees of the team, or the like. In this way, cloud platform 220 ensures that a
user of the team achievement user interface is informed regarding strengths of team
members, engagement of the team, or the like, thereby improving management of the team
and reducing a utilization of computing resources associated with completing and/or revising
tasks performed by team members. As shown by reference number 740, cloud platform 220
provides, via the team achievement user interface, one or more user interface elements
associated with providing more information regarding an employee of a team to permit a
manager to obtain detailed information regarding employees of the team.

                                               60
[00180]    As shown in Fig. 7C, cloud platform 220 may provide, via the team achievement
user interface, a workflow and guidance document for a representative of an employee to
have a talent discussion conversation with an employee of the team to discuss the
employee's impact and future growth opportunities. In an example, cloud platform 220 may
identify a set of suggested conversation starters relating to priorities, feedback, impact, or
the like. In this way, cloud platform 220 facilitates regular talent discussion conversations
resulting in personalized talent actions towards ensuring individual performance and team
achievement. As another example, cloud platform 220 may provide a consolidated view of
representative input on talent actions for all employees for a particular business leader.
Cloud platform 220 may provide the business leader the ability to update the personalized
talent actions (e.g., to update a promotion, a new skill to learn, a new task to attempt, an
action plan for an employee's career, etc.) suggested by a representative of the employee
to ensure leadership agreement on how to position each employee for success. As another
example, cloud platform 220 provides information regarding team strengths and a team
action plan to improve transparency for employees of the team, and provides a user interface
element to receive feedback regarding the talent discussion. In this way, cloud platform 220
facilitates group talent     discussions to     improve  individual   employee   performance
achievement, team achievement, or the like.
[00181]    As indicated above, Figs. 7A-7C are provided merely as an example.            Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 7A-7C.
[00182]    Fig. 8 is a flow chart of an example process 800 for providing social channels to
assist in performance achievement for a set of employees of an organization.          In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 8 may be performed by cloud platform
220. In some implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 8 may be performed by
another device or a group of devices separate from or including cloud platform 220, such as
client device 210 and/or server 250.
[00183]    As shown in Fig. 8, process 800 may include receiving employee information
and/or team information (block 810). For example, cloud platform 220 may receive employee
information and/or team information.      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may

                                                  61
receive the employee information and/or the team information based on determining the
employee information and/or the team information. For example, cloud platform 220 may
determine a skill of an employee based on information identifying a role assigned to the
employee and information identifying a set of skills associated with the role, as described
herein. Similarly, cloud platform 220 may determine an area of strength of a team based on
information identifying a set of skills for a set of employees of the team, as described herein.
[00184]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may receive the employee
information and/or the team information based on generating one or more user interfaces
including one or more surveys. For example, cloud platform 220 may generate an individual
achievement user interface including a priorities questionnaire to determine priorities of an
individual, and may detect a user interaction with the individual achievement user interface
(e.g., provided via client device 210) associated with indicating a response to a set of
prompts of the priorities questionnaire. In this case, cloud platform 220 may determine a set
of individual priorities, a set of team priorities, or the like based on the response to the set of
prompts of the priorities questionnaire. Similarly, cloud platform 220 may generate a team
achievement user interface including an engagement survey, and may detect a user
interaction with the team achievement user interface (e.g., provided via client device 210)
associated with indicating a response to a set of prompts of the engagement survey. In this
case, cloud platform 220 may determine a level of engagement of an employee, a level of
engagement of a team, or the like based on the response to the set of prompts of the
engagement survey.
[00185]    As further shown in Fig. 8, process 800 may include determining a personalized
social intervention recommendation based on the employee information and/or the team
information (block 820). For example, cloud platform 220 may determine the personalized
social intervention recommendation based on the employee information and/or the team
information. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine the personalized
social intervention recommendation based on a level of usage of another user interface, such
as an individual achievement user interface, a team achievement user interface, or the like.
For example, cloud platform 220 may determine that a user satisfies a threshold level of
usage of the team achievement user interface, and may determine to provide a personalized

                                                 62
gamification module via the team achievement user interface or another user interface to
cause the user to increase a level of usage of the team achievement user interface. In this
way, cloud platform 220 may increase a likelihood of employees utilizing a user interface,
such as an individual achievement user interface, a team achievement user interface, or the
like. This may improve employee performance and/or team achievement relative to another
technique that does not include a personalized gamification module, thereby reducing a
utilization of computing resources relative to requiring computing resources to be expended
to revise poor employee performance.
[00186]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate a score relating to an
employee, and may determine the personalized social intervention based on the score. For
example, cloud platform 220 may determine a score relating to utilization of an individual
achievement user interface (e.g., an amount of time elapsed during utilization of the
individual achievement user interface).        In this case, when the score fails to satisfy a
threshold associated with a threshold level of utilization, cloud platform 220 may determine
a personalized social intervention recommendation relating to providing one or more social
channels to increase the level of utilization. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220
may determine the score based on a reported user satisfaction with a user interface (e.g.,
the team achievement user interface), a rate of adoption of recommendations provided via
the user interface, a completion percentage of one or more questionnaires provided via the
user interface, a participation in coaching sessions established by cloud platform 220 and
identified via the user interface, or the like. In this case, cloud platform 220 may determine
a personalized social intervention corresponding to a threshold score. For example, for an
employee satisfying a first threshold score, cloud platform 220 may establish a social channel
to permit communication with a second employee satisfying a second threshold score.
Similarly, for an employee satisfying a third threshold score, cloud platform 220 may
establish a social channel associated with improving utilization of the user interface, such as
a social channel determined, based on employee information, to be of interest to the
employee.
[00187]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine a personalized social
intervention recommendation based on employee information identifying a set of priorities of

                                                 63
an employee. For example, cloud platform 220 may process the employee information to
determine that a particular priority of a first employee (e.g., to build a new client relationship)
relates to a second employee (e.g., a client manager), and may provide a social channel for
communicating regarding the particular priority. Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform
220 may determine that a team priority is achievable by a subset of team members, and may
provide a social channel for directing communications of the subset of team members.
[00188]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate a personalized social
intervention recommendation based on employee information identifying a set of skills or
strengths of an employee. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine that a role of first
employee of a team requires a skill associated with a second employee of the team. In this
case, cloud platform 220 may provide social channel for directing communications between
the first employee of the team and the second employee of the team.                Additionally, or
alternatively, cloud platform 220 may determine that a set of skills of a first employee (e.g.,
a skill in building relationships) is associated with a threshold likelihood of increasing an
engagement level of a second employee, and may provide a social channel to facilitate
communication between the first employee and the second employee.                  Additionally, or
alternatively, cloud platform 220 may determine that an employee is associated with a
particular strength, and may generate a social recommendation to join a social channel to
permit the employee to interact with other employees associated with the particular strength.
In this way, the employee may better develop the strength into an asset for personal career
goals, performance at work, or the like relative to failing to be put in social contact with similar
employees with regard strengths.
[00189]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may process employee information
and/or team information       using an artificial intelligence technique to generate the
personalized social intervention recommendation.          For example, cloud platform 220 may
process employee information regarding thousands, hundreds of thousands, or millions of
employees to generate a set of social communication channels, a set of gamification
modules, or the like to improve employee achievement, team achievement or the like. In
this case, cloud platform 220 may utilize the artificial intelligence technique to generate
information regarding social connections, competitions, likelihoods of implementations being

                                                 64
effective at improving performance, or the like. Based on enabling utilization of larger-scale
amounts of data regarding employees, cloud platform 220 increases an accuracy of
generated social connections, likelihoods, or the like, thereby increasing a likelihood that the
personalized social intervention recommendation improves performance. In this way, cloud
platform 220 reduces utilization of computing resources relative to another technique that
generates inaccurate recommendations             and is repeatedly rerun to generate        new
recommendations to replace the inaccurate recommendations.
[00190]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may identify a social group of
employees based on employee information and/or team information. For example, cloud
platform 220 may automatically generate a social group based on a priority (e.g., a group
associated with achieving a team priority, building a new client relationship, or increasing
workplace efficiency), a strength (e.g., a group of motivator employees, a group of influencer
employees, a group of executer employees), a level of engagement (e.g., a group of high
engagement employees to facilitate mentorship or a group of low engagement employees to
receive coaching), or the like.
[00191]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine an organizational
conversation to provide to the employee.         For example, cloud platform 220 may receive
information identifying a set of conversations between groups of employees (e.g., a priorities
discussion, a strengths discussion, a training discussion, or the like), may determine that a
particular conversation is relevant to a particular employee based on employee information
or team information (e.g., indicating that the particular employee is associated with a
particular priority being discussed).      In this case, cloud platform 220 may determine a
personalized social intervention associated with causing a social channel including
messages of the particular conversation to be provided for display via a user interface to the
particular employee, and may provide an alert, via client device 210, indicating that the
particular conversation is occurring and/or being provided for display.
[00192]     Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may provide a set of frequently
asked questions (FAQs) and associated answers relating to a feature of a user interface
(e.g., the individual achievement user interface), based on determining that the set of FAQs

                                                  65
and associated answers are of interest or relevant to the particular employee.           In some
implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine to establish a social channel to discuss
the set of FAQs and associated answers.
[00193]      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine a set of social
intervention recommendations periodically. For example, cloud platform 220 may determine
to provide a tip for utilizing an individual achievement user interface or a team achievement
user interface (e.g., an alert identifying a feature) each day, each week, each month, or the
like. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine a set of social intervention
recommendations relating to media content. For example, based on monitoring utilization of
the individual achievement user interface, cloud platform 220 may determine that a particular
user is failing to utilize a particular module of the individual achievement user interface (e.g.,
viewing strengths, completing a survey, or communicating with colleagues), and may
determine to provide an instructional video for display to instruct the user in utilizing the
particular module.
[00194]      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine to provide access to
a particular campaign to a particular set of employees based on the individual information
and/or the team information. For example, when a supervisor is to perform a question and
answer session via a social channel, cloud platform 220 may determine a group of
employees to whom the question and answer session is likely to be relevant (e.g., based on
employee priorities, team priorities, employee strengths, or team strengths), and may
determine to recommend that the user view the question and answer session via a user
interface.
[00195]      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine to provide a
gamification module to increase utilization of the personal achievement user interface or the
team achievement user interface.          For example, based on determining, based on the
employee information or the team information, that a particular set of rewards (e.g., points
earned based on actions) are associated with a greater utilization of a user interface, cloud
platform 220 may determine a personalized social intervention including a gamification
module with a set of rewards. In this case, cloud platform 220 may determine to provide the

                                                  66
gamification module to a group of employees (e.g., a team) to cause the group of employees
to compete to achieve a greater amount of progress toward an individual priority, a team
priority, a utilization of a user interface, a participation in group events, acquisition of one or
more skills, or the like.
[00196]     In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may determine a personalized social
intervention associated with a training video.            For example, cloud platform 220 may
determine to cause a training video to be provided to a group of employees via a group of
client devices 210, and may provide a social channel to discuss the video.                In some
implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide an interactive video. For example, based
on cloud platform 220 determining that a particular feature (e.g., a priorities identification
feature) of the individual achievement user interface is not associated with a threshold
utilization by a particular employee, cloud platform 220 may provide an interactive video to
permit the particular employee to learn to use the particular feature.         In this case, cloud
platform 220 may monitor utilization of the individual achievement user interface to alter
playback of the video based on a user interaction (e.g., providing a portion of the video
relating to a particular user interface element based on a mouse-over of the particular user
interface element).
[00197]     As further shown in Fig. 8, process 800 may include providing a set of social
channels via a user interface based on determining the personalized social intervention
recommendation (block 830). For example, cloud platform 220 may provide the set of social
channels via the user interface based on determining the personalized social intervention
recommendation. The set of social channels may refer to a set of modules included in the
user interface to implement the personalized social intervention recommendation.                For
example, cloud platform 220 may provide a chat functionality via a user interface to
implement a social intervention recommendation to collaborate with a particular employee.
In this case, cloud platform 220 may cause communications to be directed between multiple
client devices 210 via one or more social channels established by cloud platform 220.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may provide a gamification module to cause
an employee utilizing a user interface to collaborate with one or more other employees.

                                                67
[00198]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide a social channel to
share a gamification achievement. For example, cloud platform 220 may cause one or more
gamification achievements of a first employee to be provided for display via a user interface
(e.g., an individual achievement user interface or a team achievement user interface) to a
second employee.      In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate the user
interface to include one or more user interface elements to permit a user interaction
associated with providing permission to share the one or more gamification achievements.
In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may provide a gamification module in a first
user interface to provide information regarding progress of a set of employees (e.g., of a
team) toward achievement of one or more priorities (e.g., a set of individual priorities or a
team priority).
[00199]    In some      implementations,     cloud platform  220    may    selectively  route
communications associated with the set of social channels. For example, cloud platform 220
may identify a set of recipients for a message input into a first user interface based on a
content of the message, employee information relating to the set of recipients, or the like,
and may cause the message to be provided for display via a second user interface.
Additionally, or alternatively, cloud platform 220 may identify a subject associated with a
message, such as based on a comment, a hashtag, parsing the message using a machine
learning technique, or the like, may determine a recipient of the message based on the
subject of the message and employee information regarding employees of the organization,
and may route the message for display via a particular user interface based on determining
the recipient of the message.       In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may route
communications based on determining a relevancy or an interest level associated with an
employee. For example, based on employee information or team information, cloud platform
220 may determine that an employee is to obtain a particular skill, and may direct
communications associated with the particular skill to a client device 210 utilized by the
employee.
[00200]    In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may periodically update information
provided via a user interface based on the personalized social intervention. For example,
based on information identifying a progress on a task, toward a priority, toward obtaining a

                                                68
skill, or the like, cloud platform 220 may update a gamification module, provide an alert for
display, or the like. In some implementations, cloud platform 220 may generate a set of
messages for a first employee to provide to a second employee. For example, based on
establishing a social channel relating to progress in a gamification module, cloud platform
220 may generate a message of congratulations regarding an achievement of a first
employee and may provide the message for display to a second employee.                Based on
detecting a user interaction with a user interface element of a user interface of client device
210 (e.g., to cause the message of congratulations to be sent), cloud platform 220 may direct
the message of congratulations to another client device 210 for display to the first employee.
In this way, cloud platform 220 may enable social communication between a set of
employees of potentially millions of employees who are determined to have a shared interest,
a shared priority, or the like, thereby reducing a likelihood that communications are routed to
client devices 210 used by employees not interested in the content of the communications.
This reduces a utilization of processing resources and/or network resources, which may be
substantial for a large organization, relative to another technique that does not utilize
machine learning, artificial intelligence techniques, or the like to generate social channels
and include the social channels in user interfaces.
[00201]     Although Fig. 8 shows example blocks of process 800, in some implementations,
process 800 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 8. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 800 may be performed in parallel.
[00202]      Fig. 9 are diagrams of an example implementation 900 relating to example process
800 shown in Fig. 8.        Fig. 9 show an example of providing social channels to assist in
performance achievement for a set of employees of an organization.
[00203]     As shown in Fig. 9, cloud platform 220 provides a set of social channels via a set
of user interfaces. For example, based on identifying customized social interventions for
each employee of a set of employees of a team based on individual information, team
information, or the like, cloud platform 220 generates the set of user interfaces (e.g., based
on a template, based on dynamically rescaling, or the like, as described herein) to include

                                               69
the set of social channels to be provided via user interfaces of a set of client devices 210
(e.g., via a dedicated user interface or via a portion of another user interface, such as an
individual achievement user interface or a team achievement user interface).
[00204]     As further shown in Fig. 9, and by reference number 910, cloud platform 220
includes, in a team achievement user interface 910 provided for display to a first employee
of the team by client device 210-1, a gamification module providing information identifying a
progress on a set of team priorities. Cloud platform 220 provides, via team achievement
user interface 910, information identifying a reward for completing a priority for the team,
completing a peer coaching session with another employee of the team, or the like. Cloud
platform 220 provides, via team achievement user interface 910, information identifying a set
of gamification awards (e.g., an icon or a badge) for the first employee, an alert relating to
the first employee's progress in completing the priority for the team, and a set of social
channel recommendations for the first employee, such as a question and answer session
(e.g., a link to the question and answer session titled: #Q&A) and a motivational seminar
(e.g., a link to the motivational seminar titled: #BeAwesome) that are determined to be of
interest to the first employee.
[00205]     As further shown in Fig. 9, and by reference number 920, cloud platform 220
provides, via a team achievement user interface 920 provided for display to a second
employee of the team by client device 210-1, the gamification module providing information
identifying the progress on the set of team priorities. Cloud platform 220 provides, via team
achievement user interface 920, a user interface element to share information regarding an
alert (e.g., an achievement of the second employee). Based on a user interaction with the
user interface, cloud platform 220 identifies a group of recipients for the information, and
causes the information to be provided for display via a group of user interfaces used by the
group of recipients (e.g., other employees).        Cloud platform 220, provides, via team
achievement user interface 920, information identifying an achievement of a third employee,
and a user interface element to cause a message to be transmitted for display via team
achievement user interface 930 to the third employee.        In this way, cloud platform 220
facilitates social sharing.

                                                70
[00206]     As further shown in Fig. 9, and by reference number 930, cloud platform 220
provides, via team achievement user interface 930 provided for display to the third employee
via client device 210-3, the gamification module providing information identifying the
progress on the set of team priorities. Cloud platform 220 provides, via team achievement
user interface 930, a user interface element identifying an assignment of a mentorship
program activity to improve performance, an alert regarding completion of a priorities survey
(e.g., indicating a particular quantity of gamification points for increasing utilization of an
individual achievement user interface), and a new message for a group to which cloud server
220 assigned the third employee (e.g., a group of influencer-type employees based on the
third employee being associated with an influencer strength).
[00207]      As indicated above, Fig. 9 are provided merely as an example. Other examples
are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Fig. 9.
[00208]     In this way, cloud platform 220 generates an individual achievement user
interface, a team achievement user interface, and/or a set of social channels to improve a
level of performance of employees of a company. Based on providing information regarding
and based on an individual, cloud platform 220 improves an employer or an employee's
knowledge of the employee and of attributes correlated with a threshold performance. Based
on providing information regarding and based on a team, cloud platform 220 improves team
transparency and team performance based on collective contributions of multiple employees
to the team.     Based on providing a set of social channels, cloud platform 220 improves
organizational culture with regard to utilization of the individual and team achievement user
interfaces and/or recommendations associated with improving employee and/or team
achievement. Based on improving employee performance, cloud platform 220 reduces a
utilization of computing resources relative to another technique for employee management
that may result in increased training, reduced accuracy of tasks completed, or the like.
[00209]     The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.

                                               71
[00210]    As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[00211]    Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[00212]    Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.              In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[00213]    It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.
[00214]    Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not

                                                72
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.       Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[00215]     No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[00216]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or steps, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features
or steps.
[00217]     Any reference to prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                  73
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A device, including:
        one or more processors that:
                communicate with a first server to obtain first information regarding a plurality
        of groups of entities,
                        the first information being stored by a plurality of data structures
                associated with the first server;
                process the first information to generate a data model relating to attributes of
        the plurality of groups of entities;
                communicate with a second server to obtain second information regarding a
        particular group of entities;
                process the second information using the data model to identify a set of
        recommendations relating to the particular group of entities,
                        the set of recommendations relating to attributes of the plurality of
                groups of entities and one or more attributes of the particular group of entities,
                        the set of recommendations being associated with a set of scores;
                select a particular recommendation, of the set of recommendations, based on
        a corresponding score of the set of scores;
                generate a user interface including the particular recommendation based on
        selecting the particular recommendation; and
                communicate with a plurality of client devices to cause the particular
        recommendation to be provided for display,
                        the plurality of client devices being selected based on the plurality of
                client devices being determined to be associated with the particular group of
                entities.
2.      A device according to claim 1, where the one or more processors, when processing
the first information:
        process the first information relating to attributes of individual entities, of the plurality
of groups of entities, to determine the attributes of the plurality of groups of entities; and

                                                  74
        generate the data model based on processing the first information to determine the
attributes of the plurality of groups of entities.
3.      A device according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the one or more processors,
when processing the first information:
        determine that the attributes of the plurality of groups of entities are associated with a
threshold likelihood of the plurality of groups of entities satisfying a threshold level of
performance; and
        select the attributes of the plurality of groups of entities from a set of attributes based
on determining that the attributes of the plurality of groups of entities are associated with the
threshold likelihood of the plurality of groups of entities satisfying the threshold level of
performance.
4.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when processing the second information:
        determine the set of scores for the set of recommendations based on at least one of:
               a likelihood of adoption,
               a likelihood of performance improvement,
               a schedule availability, or
               a cost.
5.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors, when communicating with the first server to obtain the first information:
        communicate with the first server to obtain priorities information from a first data
structure of the plurality of data structures;
        communicate with the first server to obtain skills information from a second data
structure of the plurality of data structures; and
        communicate with the first server to obtain engagement information from a third data
structure of the plurality of data structures.
6.      A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:

                                                 75
       determine an engagement level for the particular group of entities based on the
second information,
               the second information identifying one or more engagement levels for one or
        more entities of the particular group of entities; and
       where the one or more processors, when communicating with the plurality of client
devices:
               communicate with the plurality of client devices to cause information identifying
       the engagement level to be provided for display.
7.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
       determine a set of skills for the particular group of entities based on the second
information,
               the second information identifying one or more skills associated with one or
        more entities of the particular group of entities; and
       where the one or more processors, when communicating with the plurality of client
devices:
               communicate with the plurality of client devices to cause information identifying
       the set of skills for the particular group of entities to be provided for display.
8.     A device according to any one of the preceding claims, where the one or more
processors further:
       determine to schedule a group discussion relating to the particular group of entities,
               the group discussion being related to the particular recommendation; and
       communicate with the plurality of client devices to cause a calendar entry to be stored
via the plurality of client devices for the group discussion.
9.     A method, including:
        receiving, by a cloud computing device, first employee information for a set of
employees of an organization;

                                                 76
       generating, by the cloud computing device, an analytical data model based on the first
employee information for the set of employees of the organization,
               the analytical data model relating to a set of skills, a set of priorities, and a set
       of engagement levels that correspond to performance by a team of employees;
       receiving, by the cloud computing device, second employee information for a
particular team of employees of the organization;
       determining, by the cloud computing device, team information for the particular team
based on the second employee information for the particular team,
               the team information identifying a set of team skills, a set of team priorities, and
       a team engagement level for the particular team;
       processing, by the cloud computing device, the team information using the analytical
data model to identify a set of recommendations for the team;
       generating, by the device, a user interface based on processing the team information
to identify the set of recommendations,
               the user interface including information identifying the set of recommendations;
       and
       providing, by the device, the user interface for display via a client device associated
with a particular employee of the particular team.
10.    A method according to claim 9, further including:
       determining, based on one or more skills of one or more employees of the particular
team and based on the set of team skills, a particular recommendation relating to causing
the particular employee to obtain a particular skill,
               the particular skill not being included in the set of team skills; and
       where providing the user interface includes:
                providing information identifying the particular skill.
11.    A method according to either claim 9 or claim 10, further including:
       determining, based on one or more skills of one or more employees of the particular
team and based on the set of team skills, a particular recommendation relating to causing
the particular employee to obtain a particular skill,

                                                 77
               the particular skill not being included in the set of team skills; and
       where providing the user interface includes:
                providing information associated with scheduling a coaching session to discuss
       the particular skill with the particular employee.
12.    A method according to claim 11, further including:
        providing, via another client device, information identifying a set of topics for
discussion during the coaching session for display to another employee in another user
interface.
13.    A method according to any one of claims 9 to 12, where generating the analytical data
model includes:
       generating a set of similarity scores identifying a similarity of a set of organizations to
the organization based on the first employee information for the set of employees of the
organization and third employee information regarding a plurality of employees of the set of
organizations;
       selecting a subset of the set of organizations based on the set of similarity scores;
       filter the third employee information to select a subset of the third employee
information relating to the subset of the set of organizations; and
        process the subset of the third employee information to generate the analytical data
model.
14.    A method according to claim 13, where processing the subset of the third employee
information includes:
        processing the subset of the third employee information using at least one of:
               a natural language processing technique,
               a machine learning technique,
               a pattern recognition technique, or
               a regression technique.

                                                  78
15.     A method according to any one of claims 9 to 14, further including:
        identifying    another   recommendation       relating  to   improvement    to   employee
performance for an employee of the particular team; and
        providing, via the user interface, information identifying the other recommendation
relating to improvement to employee performance for the employee.
16.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
        one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
                receive employee information for a set of employees of a team;
                identify, based on a set of skills, a set of priorities, and a set of engagement
        levels included in the employee information and associated with the set of employees
        of the team, team information for the team,
                        the team information including a set of attributes of the team,
                               the set of attributes of the team including a group of team skills,
                        a group of team priorities, and a team engagement level;
                process the team information to identify a recommendation relating to
        improving one or more attributes of the set of attributes of the team; and
                provide a user interface based on processing the team information to identify
        the recommendation for the team,
                        the user interface including information identifying the team information,
                        the user interface including information identifying a portion of the
                employee information, and
                        the user interface including information identifying a team action plan
                relating to the recommendation.
17.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 16, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:

                                                79
        provide, via the user interface, a set of communication            channels to cause
communications relating to the group of team priorities to be routed to a plurality of
employees of the set of employees of the team.
18.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 16 or claim 17,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to identify the
recommendation, further cause the one or more processors to:
        identify a training recommendation relating to a team skill that fails to satisfy a
threshold level of skill;
        identify, based on the employee information for the set of employees, an employee to
improve proficiency in a skill corresponding to the team skill; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide
the user interface, further cause the one or more processors to:
                provide information regarding a training program associated with causing the
       employee to improve proficiency in the skill corresponding to the team skill via the
        user interface.
19.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 16 to 18,
where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to provide the
user interface, further cause the one or more processors to:
        provide, via the user interface, a set of questionnaires relating to the employee
information;
        receive, after providing the set of questionnaires, information identifying results of the
set of questionnaires; and
        parse the results of the set of questionnaires to update the employee information; and
        update the team information based on updating the employee information.
20.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 16 to 19,
when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors
to:

                                               80
       determine, based on other team information relating to one or more other teams, that
a group of skills of a plurality of employees of another team correspond to a threshold level
of performance for the team;
       determine, based on the team information, that the employees of the team are
associated with a first subset of the group of skills and are not associated with a second
subset of the group of skills; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to process
the team information to identify the recommendation, further cause the one or more
processors to:
              process the team information to identify the recommendation based on
       determining that the employees of the team are associated with the first subset of the
       group of skills and are not associated with the second subset of the group of skills,
                      the recommendation relating to the second subset of the group of skills.

                                                                                          1/13
<removed-date>
                                  r
                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                  <U+276F>
                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                  t
                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                              <U+2761>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                      r
                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                  <U+2761>
                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      t
                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                              <U+261E>
                                  <U+2746>
                                              <U+270E>
                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                  <U+2767>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                  <U+261B>
                                  <U+275E>
                                  <U+261E>
                                  <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                          t
                                                          <U+261E>
                                          r
                          <U+2666>
                                                          <U+2761>
                          t
                                          <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2666>
                                                      t
                                                          <U+2660>
                                          <U+2721>
                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                          <U+2761>
                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                      r
                          <U+2666>
                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2708>
                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                          t
                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                          <U+2761>
                                          <U+2666>
                                                      t
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      t
                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                          t
                                                      <U+275B>
                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                          <U+275D>
                          r
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                      P
                                          <U+2721>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                                      r
                          <U+2666>
                          <U+2762>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                      <U+2721>
                                                          <U+2761>
                          <U+261E>
                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                      <U+275D>
                                          t
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  r
                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                      <U+275B>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                          <U+2721>
                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                          r
                                                      r
                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                          <U+2660>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                          <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2761>
                                                          r
                                                      t
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                          <U+2666>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                      <U+261E>
                                          <U+2761>
                          r
                                                          <U+2762>
                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                          r
                                          <U+270C>
                          P
                                                          <U+2761>
                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                          s                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                                                               s
                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                              s                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2704>           <U+2701>
                  s
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      s
                      <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                  <U+2764>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                                                              <U+2710>
                      <U+2701>                                                                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+271E>                                                                       <U+2706>
                  <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2716>
                                                                                      <U+2704>                                                                       <U+2665>                       <U+2711>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2713>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                      <U+2763>
                  <U+2665>                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                      <U+271E>                                       <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+271D>               <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+271F>
                  <U+2704>
                                                                          <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                                                          <U+2714>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                              <U+2720>
                  <U+2702>
                      <U+271D>
                                                                                      <U+2763>
                                                                          <U+2665>               <U+2706>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                      <U+2706>
                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                          <U+2665>
                  <U+2759>
                                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                      <U+2665>
                                                                                          <U+260E>
                      <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                      <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                   <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+2704>                               <U+2704>                   <U+2704>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2710>
                              s
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2461>                   <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2718>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      s       <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                              <U+2764>
                                                                                  <U+2702>           <U+271E>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271D>                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                              <U+2701>                                   <U+2704>                                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2715>                   <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2712>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2701>               <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2713>
                              <U+2763>                                                                                                                                       <U+271F>                                   <U+2717>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2712>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2714>                   <U+2714>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                                                              <U+2763>                                                       <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2712>
                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2713>
                                                                                                              <U+2712>                                                       <U+275C>
                              <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2713>
                                      <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                              <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+271F>   <U+2711>
                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271D>
              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>                   <U+271E>                                           <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2712>
                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2712>                                                                                                                   s
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2717>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+271F>
                              <U+2704>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2714>                                               <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                      <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                                                   <U+2713>
                                                                              <U+2711>
                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2759>
              <U+2735>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>                   <U+274A>                                           <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2701>                                                               <U+2460>
                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                              <U+2665>                                                       <U+271F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2704>
              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                  <U+2759>
                                                                                  <U+2759>
                              <U+2759>
                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2711>                                                   |
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2716>

                                                                          2/13
<removed-date>                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2768>
                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                              <U+2721>
                      s
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                  <U+272D>
                  <U+2721>
                      <U+272D>
                                                              <U+2761>
                  r                                           r
                                                          <U+275B>
                          <U+2735>                                           <U+2735>
                                                          t
                  <U+2761>
                                                              <U+2709>
                          <U+273A>                                           <U+273B>
                                                              t
                                                          <U+275B>
                  <U+2708>
                                                              <U+275D>
                  r
<removed-apn>
                                                          <U+2749>
                                                              <U+2709>
                  <U+2761>
                                                              r
                                                              t
                  <U+270F>
                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>                       <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+273A>                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2771>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                  <U+2660>                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                              |
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                  r
                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                          <U+2762>
                                  <U+2707>
                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                          t
                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                          <U+275B>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                          <U+275E>                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                      <U+270C>                               <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                  <U+2761>                               <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                      <U+261E>                               <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                  <U+275D>                               <U+275D>
                                                                                      <U+261B>                               <U+261B>
                                                                                      t                               t
                                                                                                  r                               r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                              <U+273A>                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                      <U+2709>                               <U+2709>
                                                                                                  <U+2709>                               <U+2709>
                                                                                      <U+2663>                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                  <U+2666>                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>                               <U+2721>
                                                                                      <U+2660>                               <U+2660>
                                                                                                  <U+2761>                               <U+2761>
                                                                                      <U+2666>                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                      |                               |
                                                                                      <U+2748>                               <U+2748>
                                          s
                                      <U+2721>
                              t
                                          <U+272D>
                              <U+261E>
                                      <U+2761>
                                                      <U+2735>
                              <U+2761>
                                      <U+275D>
                                                      <U+2736>
                              <U+261B>       <U+261B>
                              <U+2767>
                                      <U+2708>
                              <U+2748>
                                      <U+2761>
                                      <U+2749>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>

                                                                  3/13
<removed-date>
                                  t
                                  <U+261E>
                  <U+2761>
                                  <U+2761>
                  <U+270C>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2735>
                  <U+275B>               <U+2666>
                  r
                                              <U+2739>
                                  <U+2663>
                  <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2738>
                  t
                                  <U+2660>
                  <U+270F>
                                  <U+2666>
                                  <U+2748>
<removed-apn>
                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                         <U+2666>
                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                         t
                                                                                 <U+2761>
                                                                         <U+275B>
                                                                                 <U+275D>
                                                                         <U+275D>
                                                                         <U+261B>
                                                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                                         <U+2735>
                                                                                 <U+2762>
                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                         <U+273C>
                                                                                 r
                                                                         <U+2709>
                                                                                         <U+2738>
                                                                                 <U+2761>
                                                                                 t
                                                                         <U+2660>
                                                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                                 <U+270E>
                                                                         <U+2660>
                                                                         <U+2666>
                                                                         <U+2748>
                              <U+2461>
                          r
                          <U+2666>
                                          <U+2735>
                                          <U+2738>
                          <U+2660>
                                          <U+2738>
                          <U+2761>
                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                     t
                                                                                             <U+2733>
                                                                                     <U+261E>
                                                                         t
                                                                                     <U+2761>
                                                                         <U+2709>
                                                                                     <U+261E>
                                                                                             <U+25CF>
                                                                                         <U+2735>
                                                                         <U+2663>
                                                                                     <U+2666>
                                                                                             
                                                                         t
                                                                                         <U+273B>
                                                                                     <U+2663>
                                                                         <U+2709>
                                                                                         <U+2738>
                                                                                             <U+274B>
                                                                                     <U+2660>
                                                                             <U+2756>
                                                                                     <U+2666>
                                                                                     <U+2748>
                      r
                      <U+2666>
                      <U+2721>
                      <U+2721>
                                      <U+2735>
                      <U+2761>
                      <U+275D>
                                      <U+2738>
                      <U+2666>
                      r
                      P
                                                                                 t
                                                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                                 <U+2761>
                                                                         t
                                                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                         <U+2709>               <U+2735>
                                                                                 <U+2666>
                                                                                         <U+273A>
                                                                         <U+2663>
                                                                                 <U+2663>
                                                                         <U+261E>
                                                                                         <U+2738>
                                                                         <U+270E>
                                                                                 <U+2660>
                                                                                 <U+2666>
                                                                                 <U+2748>
                                                      <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2735>
                                                      <U+2709>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2747>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2738>

<removed-date>
                              4/13
<removed-apn>
                               <U+2767>
                                                       <U+2761>
                               <U+2761>
                                                       <U+2761>
                               <U+275E>
                                                           <U+2461>
                      <U+2761>                <U+275E>
                               <U+2666>
                                                       <U+2666>
                                                       <U+2767>
                      <U+2761>                <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+2761>
                          <U+2461>
                               <U+2660>                       <U+2663>
                                       <U+275B>
                                                                       <U+2761>
                      <U+2666>
                      <U+2767>
                               <U+275B>                       <U+2660>
                                       <U+2761>
                                                                           <U+2461>
                               t
                      <U+2663>
                                                       <U+2761>
                                       <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+2666>
                               <U+275B>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                           <U+2461>
                      <U+2660>
                                                       <U+2761>
                               <U+275E>
                                                                       <U+2663>
                                               <U+2761>
                                       <U+2666>
                               <U+2767>       <U+2767>
                      <U+2761>
                                                       <U+270D>
                                               <U+275D>
                                                       t
                                                                       <U+2660>
                               <U+275B>       <U+2663>
                                               <U+261E>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+2761>
                                                       r
                               <U+275D>
                               <U+261B>
                                               <U+275B>
                                       <U+2660>
                      <U+275B>
                                                       <U+2666>
                               t
                                                       <U+2762>               <U+2761>
                                       <U+2761>
                                   <U+2461>
                                               <U+2660>
                      <U+270D>
                               <U+2767>
                                                                       <U+270D>
                      t
                                               r
                                                       <U+2761>
                                                                       t
                      <U+261B>
                                       <U+2761>
                               <U+275B>
                                               <U+2666>
                                                       <U+275D>
                                       <U+270D>
                                               <U+2762>
                               <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                      <U+2707>
                                       t
                                                       <U+275B>
                                               r
                                                       <U+2762>
                               <U+275B>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                                               <U+2761>
                                                       r
                      <U+275E>
                                       <U+270C>
                               <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+275E>
                                               <U+2663>
                      <U+2761>                                <U+2761>
                                       <U+261E>
                                                       t               r
                      t
                                       <U+261B>
                               <U+275B>
                                               <U+2761>
                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+275B>
                      <U+275B>
                                       <U+275E>
                                                       <U+261B>
                      <U+261B>
                                       r
                               <U+270C>
                                               <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                      <U+275D>
                                                       r
                                       <U+275B>
                                                   <U+2461>
                               <U+261E>
                                                                       <U+2761>
                      <U+2666>        <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2761>
                                                                       r
                                       <U+270C>
                                               <U+2666>
                      <U+2721>        <U+2721>
                                               <U+2767>
                                                       <U+2721>
                                       <U+2761>
                      <U+2721>                                                <U+261E>
                               <U+2709>
                                               <U+2663>
                                       r               <U+2709>
                                                                       <U+2666>       <U+2739>
                      <U+275B>
                                                       t
                                                                       <U+261B>
                               <U+261E>
                                               <U+2660>
                                       <U+261E>
                                                                       t
                                                       <U+261E>
                      <U+261E>
                               <U+2666>
                                               <U+2761>
                                       <U+2666>
                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                               <U+2733>
                               <U+261B>
                                       <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2761>
                      <U+2666>        t
                                       t
                      <U+261B>
                                               <U+270C>
                                                                       <U+2660>
                      t
                               <U+275B>
                                       <U+275B>
                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                       r
                                               <U+261E>
                      <U+275B>
                                               <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2761>                       <U+25CF>
                                                                       <U+2666>
                               <U+2660>
                                       <U+2660>
                                               <U+2708>
                                                                       <U+2762>
                               r
                                                       <U+2708>
                                       r                                       
                      <U+2660>
                                               <U+2666>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                      r
                               <U+2666>
                                                       <U+2761>
                                       <U+2666>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                                               r
                               <U+2762>
                                                       <U+261B>
                                       <U+2762>
                      <U+2666>
                                                                       t
                                                                               <U+274B>
                      <U+2762>
                                               <U+2663>
                               <U+261E>
                                                       <U+270D>
                                       <U+261E>
                               <U+261B>
                                       <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+2709>
                      <U+261E>                                <U+275D>
                      <U+261B>
                                               <U+2660>
                                       t
                                                                       <U+2663>
                                               <U+261B>
                               <U+2761>                       <U+275B>
                                                                       t
                                       <U+2709>
                                                       <U+2767>
                      <U+2761>
                               <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+2709>
                                               <U+2666>
                                       <U+2663>
                                   <U+2461>
                      <U+2761>                                <U+275B>
                                               t
                                       t
                                                                       <U+2666>
                          <U+2461>
                               <U+2666>                       <U+2709>
                                       <U+2709>
                               <U+2767>
                                               <U+270C>
                      <U+2666>
                                                                       <U+2761>
                                                       <U+275E>
                      <U+2767>
                                       <U+2666>
                                                       <U+261B>
                               <U+2663>
                                               <U+261E>
                                               <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                       <U+2708>
                      <U+2663>
                                               t
                                                                       t
                                                       <U+261B>
                                       <U+2761>
                               <U+2660>
                                               <U+275B>
                                                       <U+275E>
                                       <U+261E>
                      <U+2660>
                                               <U+2767>
                               <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+270C>
                                       <U+261B>
                                                       <U+261E>
                      <U+2761>
                                               <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                       <U+261B>
                               <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+261B>
                                               r
                                       <U+2660>
                      <U+2761>
                                       r
                                                                       <U+275E>
                               <U+270D>
                                                       <U+261E>
                               t
                      <U+2708>
                                       <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+2709>
                                                       <U+275B>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                       <U+2767>
                                       t
                               <U+2761>
                      <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+275D>
                                       <U+2761>
                                                       <U+2761>
                               <U+2461>
                      <U+275D>
                                                                       <U+261E>
                                       <U+275E>
                                                       <U+275E>               <U+261B>
                                   <U+2461>
                      <U+2761>                                <U+261B>
                               <U+2767>
                                       <U+2666>
                                                       <U+2708>
                               <U+275B>
                          |
                                       t
                                                       <U+2666>
                               <U+261E>
                                                       r
                               <U+2746>
                                                       P
                          <U+2735>                <U+2735>                       <U+2735>
                          <U+2736>                                        <U+2738>
                      <U+2739>                <U+2739>                       <U+2739>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+2735>
              <U+2739>

                                                                                          5/13
<removed-date>
                                                                                          <U+275A>
                  <U+2665>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                  <U+2666>
                  <U+2710>
                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                  t
                                                                                              <U+2747>
                  <U+275D>
                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2744>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                              <U+2605>
                                                                                          <U+276F>
                  <U+2767>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2461>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                              <U+2660>
                          <U+2744>
                  |
                                                                              t
                  <U+2732>
                  <U+2762>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+275B>
                      <U+2461>
                  <U+2767>
                                                  t
                                                                              <U+270D>
                      <U+2761>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                              t
                                                  <U+2761>
                      <U+2708>
                  <U+2759>
                                                  r
                      r
                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                  <U+261B>
                              <U+2461>
                          t
                      <U+2709>
                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2663>
                  <U+275E>
                          <U+261B>                                                           <U+2744>
                                                                              <U+261B>
                          r
                                                  <U+2721>
                  <U+2665>   <U+2759>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                          <U+2666>
                                                  <U+275B>                           t
                  <U+275B>       <U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                          r
                                                  <U+270E>                           <U+270E>
                  s
                          <U+2663>
                                                  <U+273F>                           <U+273F>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                      <U+2721>
                  <U+2710>
                              <U+2736>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                  t
                          <U+2605>
                  <U+2710>
                                                  <U+261E>                           <U+261E>
                  r
                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2666>                           <U+2666>
                                                                                      t
                              <U+2461>
                                                  <U+261B>                           <U+261B>
                  <U+2666>
                                                  t                           t
                  <U+2710>                                                                   <U+270C>
                              <U+25BC>                   <U+2721>                           <U+2721>
                  r
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                  <U+2761>                           <U+2761>
                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                  P
                                                                                      <U+2761>
                              <U+2736>                   <U+2709>                           <U+2709>       r
                                  <U+2733>   <U+2733>                   <U+2733>       <U+2733>                                   <U+2733>       <U+2733>
                                                                                      t
                          <U+25D7>       <U+2746>               <U+25D7>       <U+2746>                   <U+25D7>       <U+2721>               <U+2746>
                                          <U+2747>                           <U+2747>                                           <U+2747>
                                              <U+273A>
                                              <U+2735>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                      t                                                                           t
                                                              <U+2761>                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                              <U+275D>                                                                           <U+275D>
                                                      <U+261E>                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                              <U+261B>                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                      
                                                      <U+2761>                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                              <U+2708>                                                                           <U+2708>       <U+2735>
                                                      <U+261B>                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                      <U+2767>                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2761>                                                                           <U+2761>       <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                      <U+2748>                                                                           <U+2748>
                                                              <U+2749>                                                                           <U+2749>
                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+273A>

                                                                                                                          6/13
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>                   <U+2756>
                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                  <U+2726>               <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>                   <U+2702>
                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                  <U+2665>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>                                                                                                                               <U+274A>
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                  t
                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2771>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2771>
                                  t
                                                              <U+2709>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                  <U+275D>
                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                              <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                  t
                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                  r                                                   <U+2788>
                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                              <U+261E>                                   <U+2761>           <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                  <U+25C6>
                                                              <U+261B>                                               <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                              <U+2660>                                   <U+261B>
                                  <U+2665>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                  t
                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                  <U+2710>                                                                           <U+2708>
                                                              t                                               <U+261B>
                      
                                  t
                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                  <U+2709>           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2761>
                                  <U+275B>
                      <U+276F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2786>                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                      r
                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                  s
                      <U+2666>                                                                                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                  <U+2761>
<removed-apn>
                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                  <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                              r                               <U+276F>
                                                              <U+275B>
                      <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                  <U+275B>                                               <U+275B>
                                  <U+2660>                                                                           <U+2663>
                      <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                      r
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                  <U+2666>                                               <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                      <U+2761>
                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                              <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                  s           <U+261B>
                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                              t
                                                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                      <U+2787>
                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                          t                                                                                                                   r
                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                              r
                      <U+2759>
                                                                                                                                                          |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>                                   <U+2666>                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                  |
                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>                                               <U+2721>
                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                  <U+2660>                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2721>                                           <U+2721>                                                   <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                  <U+2764>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              P                                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                      <U+2766>
                                  t               t                                                           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>                   <U+2721>
                                                  <U+261E>                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                          t                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                  r
                                                  r           <U+2666>
                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                   <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                  <U+25CF>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+261E>                       <U+270C>
                                                  <U+275D>           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                          <U+2761>                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                  <U+278A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>           <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275A>                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                  <U+261E>                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                              <U+270C>
                                  t                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                  <U+2666>                                   <U+275B>                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                  r
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2732>                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2707>                                                                                               <U+2707>
                                                                      <U+2747>                                               <U+2460>
                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>               <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                  <U+2767>                                                               r
                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                   <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>               <U+2666>                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                  <U+2660>       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                          |                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+275A>           P                   <U+2748>
                                  <U+2746>
                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>                       <U+2771>           <U+2768>                       <U+2748>                                                           <U+2771>
                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                  <U+275B>               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                              s                   s               s                       s                                                       s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>                                   <U+2738>                   <U+2739>                       t
                                                              <U+2762>   <U+2746>           |       <U+27B2>           <U+27B2>           <U+27B2>                   <U+27B2>
                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                  t
                                                                                              <U+2761>
                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2735>               <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273A>               <U+273A>
                                          <U+2761>
                          <U+2721>
                                          <U+2721>
                          <U+2761>
                                                          <U+2738>
                          <U+261B>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2732>
                          t
                          <U+261B>
                                              <U+275C>
                          r                               <U+2735>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2736>
                          <U+2666>
                                          t
                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+273A>
                          r
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                          P
                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                          <U+2721>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                          <U+2721>
                          <U+270D>
                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2732>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                                                                           t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                          <U+261E>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                          <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>
                          <U+2761>
                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                          <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                          <U+275B>
                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>                                   r
                          <U+270F>
                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                          t
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                          <U+2761>
                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                          <U+2660>
                                      <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2732>
                          <U+2761>
                                              <U+275C>
                                                          <U+2735>
                          <U+270C>
                                      <U+275B>
                                                          <U+2736>
                                      t
                          <U+275B>
              <U+2735>
                                                          <U+273A>
                                      <U+275B>
                          <U+270C>
              <U+2735>
                                      <U+2749>
                          <U+261E>
              <U+273A>
                              <U+274A>

                                                                  7/13
<removed-date>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                              <U+2756>           <U+2756>
                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+2702>           <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                          s
<removed-apn>
                                                          r
                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+2714>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                                                              <U+2461>
                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  t           <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+2706>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                  <U+271A>
                                          <U+2665>                                       <U+2720>
                                                                  s                           <U+2713>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                          <U+2761>                                       <U+2712>
                                                                  s
                                                      <U+2663>
                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                  <U+2710>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                              |
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+270F>
                  <U+2747>
                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+275D>
                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                  s
                                                                                  t
                  <U+2660>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                                  r
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                          <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                  <U+275B>
                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+2711>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                  <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2707>
                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                  s
                                                                                  <U+271F>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+2719>
                                                                                  <U+2720>
                  <U+2746>
                                                  <U+275B>       r
                                                                                                  t
                                                                  <U+275D>
                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2761>       <U+2761>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                          <U+2763>                                       <U+271E>
                                          r
                      <U+273F>                                                                           <U+2767>
                  r
                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+2762>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2665>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                      s
                                                  <U+2710>
                  <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+271D>
                      r
                                                                      <U+2706>
                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                          <U+2665>
                  <U+2762>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                      <U+2461>               <U+2461>
                      <U+2761>
                                          <U+275D>               <U+275B>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                      <U+2702>
                                  s
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                      r
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2763>
                                                                                                  <U+2718>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                          <U+2660>
                      <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                  <U+2763>                       <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                      <U+2702>                                           <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                      <U+2707>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                  <U+2665>
                                          <U+275E>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                  <U+2710>
                                                          <U+2665>
                      <U+2759>
                                                  r
                                                                  s
                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+25CF>
                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                          <U+2710>                                                   
                                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+275D>
                      <U+2665>                           s
                                                                                                  
                  <U+275D>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                          <U+2762>
                                                                      P
                                                                              <U+2756>           <U+2756>
                                  <U+2665>
                      <U+2666>
                                                          <U+275D>
                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                      <U+2710>                   <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2702>           <U+2702>
                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                  r
                  <U+2666>
                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                          <U+275B>
                      <U+275B>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                  s
                                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                      s
                                          r
                                                  <U+275D>
                                  r
                                                          <U+2761>       s
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                      r
                                                  s
                                          <U+2763>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                          <U+275C>
                      <U+2761>
                                  <U+2762>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+275D>
                                  r
                      <U+2708>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                          <U+275E>
                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+2717>
                                                                  s
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                          t
                                                          <U+2702>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                              <U+271F>
                      <U+2665>
                                                                  <U+2710>       <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                              t
                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                  <U+2665>
                                      <U+2663>
                      <U+2666>
                                          <U+2708>
                                                          s
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                                                      <U+2749>                       <U+270E>
                                          <U+2710>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2702>                                   t
                                                  s
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                  <U+2716>
                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                          <U+275B>
                                      <U+25D7>
                                                                                                      r
                      <U+275E>
                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2720>
                                                                                              <U+2460>
                                                                  s
                      <U+2761>
                                          r       <U+275E>
                                                              <U+2707>
                                  s
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                          <U+271F>
                                      <U+2786>
                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                      s                                           <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                                      <U+2460>
                                  <U+2747>       <U+2747>       <U+2747>       <U+2747>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2761>                                           <U+2709>
                                                                                              <U+2720>
                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2714>
                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                              <U+271F>
                      <U+2763>           <U+2660>       <U+2660>       <U+2660>       <U+2660>       <U+275C>
                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                  <U+2715>
                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                  <U+275B>       <U+275B>       <U+275B>       <U+275B>       r
                      <U+2763>
                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+271F>   t
                                                                                                  <U+2720>
                      <U+2709>           <U+275E>       <U+275E>       <U+275E>       <U+275E>       <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                      <U+2759>           <U+2746>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>       <U+2746>
                                                                                              <U+271D>
                                      <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>
                              <U+2735>
                          <U+2739>
                              <U+273A>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+273A>

<removed-date>
                                          8/13
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                     <U+270C>
                                                                             r
                                                 <U+2666>
                          <U+2761>
                  <U+2660>
                                                                     <U+261E>
                                                 t
                                                                             <U+2666>
                                                                     <U+261B>
                                                                             <U+2762>
                              <U+2461>
                  <U+275B>
                                                 <U+2767>
                                                                     <U+2721>
                          <U+2666>
                  <U+2761>
                                                 <U+2761>
                          <U+2767>                                          <U+2721>       <U+2721>
                  t
                                                 <U+275E>
                                                                     <U+2761>       <U+261E>
                          <U+2663>
                  <U+275B>
                                                 <U+2666>
                                                                     <U+275D>
                                                                             <U+2666>
                                                                             <U+261B>
                          <U+2660>
                  <U+2762>
                                                                     <U+2666>       t
                                                 <U+2660>
                          <U+2761>                                          r
                  <U+2666>
                                                                             <U+275B>
                                                             <U+2660>
                                                                     <U+2663>
                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+275E>
                          <U+2761>
                  <U+2721>
                                                 t
                                                             <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+261E>
                                                                     <U+261E>
                          <U+270D>
                  <U+2761>
                                                 <U+275B>
                                                             <U+2761>
                          t
                                                                             <U+2761>
                                                             t
                                                                     <U+2666>
                  <U+2761>
                                                 <U+275E>
                          <U+261E>
                      <U+2461>
                                                 <U+2767>
                                                                             <U+2660>
                                                             <U+2761>
                                                                     <U+275E>
                          <U+2666>
                  <U+2666>
                                                 <U+275B>
                  <U+2767>
                                                             <U+270D>
                                                                     <U+2761>
                                                                             <U+2660>
                                                             t
                                                 <U+275D>
                                                                     <U+2721>
                  <U+2663>
                          <U+275E>                      <U+261B>
                                                                             <U+2666>
                                                 t
                                                             r
                                                                     <U+275B>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                             <U+275D>
                                                     <U+2461>
                  <U+2660>
                                                             <U+2666>
                                                 <U+2767>
                                                                         <U+275C>
                          <U+2721>
                                                             <U+2762>
                                                                             <U+2761>
                  <U+2761>
                                                 <U+275B>
                          <U+275B>                                                  r
                                                                     <U+2761>
                  <U+2762>                                          <U+2721>
                                                 <U+261E>
                                                                             <U+2762>
                              <U+275C>
                                                                     <U+275D>
                                                             <U+261E>
                  <U+2666>
                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+2666>
                                                                     <U+275B>
                                                             <U+2666>
                  t
                                                                     <U+2762>
                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                             t
                          <U+2660>
                                                 <U+261E>
                                                             t
                                                                     r
                  <U+2761>
                                                                             <U+2761>
                          <U+275B>
                                                 <U+275B>
                  <U+2721>
                                                             <U+275B>
                                                                     <U+2761>
                                      <U+261E>
                                                                             <U+2721>
                          <U+2761>
                                                                     t
                                                             <U+275E>
                          t
                                      <U+2666>
                                                 <U+270C>
                  <U+275B>
                                                                     <U+261E>
                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                     <U+2660>
                                                                             <U+2761>
                                                                     <U+261B>
                                                             <U+261E>
                                      t
                                                 <U+261E>
                          <U+2761>
                  r                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                         <U+273B>
                                                 <U+261B>
                                                                             <U+270D>
                                                             <U+2761>
                                      <U+275B>                              r
                                                                             t
                          <U+270D>
                                                                                     <U+2761>
                  <U+2666>
                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                     <U+2761>
                          t
                  <U+2762>
                                                                                     t
                                                             <U+2660>
                                      <U+2660>
                                                 <U+2709>
                                                                                         <U+2733>
                                                                                 <U+2461>
                                                                     <U+2721>
                          r           r
                                                                             <U+2762>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                                     <U+2761>
                                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                     <U+2709>
                                                             <U+2660>
                                      <U+2666>
                          <U+2666>
                                                 <U+261E>                           t
                  <U+2666>                                                                  <U+270D>
                          <U+2762>           <U+2762>
                                                                     t
                  <U+261B>                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                     t
                                                                             <U+261E>
                                                 <U+2666>
                  t
                                                                                         <U+25CF>
                                      <U+261E>
                                                 <U+261B>
                                                             <U+275D>
                                                                     <U+261E>
                                      <U+261B>
                          <U+261E>
                                                 t
                                                                             <U+2761>
                  <U+275B>
                                                                                         
                                                             <U+2761>
                                                                     <U+2761>
                          <U+2666>                      <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+275E>
                                                             r
                          <U+261B>
                                                                             <U+261B>
                  <U+2660>
                          t
                                                                     <U+2660>
                                                             <U+2762>
                  r
                                                 <U+2660>
                                                                                         <U+274B>
                          <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+2666>
                                                 r
                                                                     <U+2761>
                                                             <U+2666>
                  <U+2666>
                                                                             t
                  <U+2762>
                                                 <U+2666>
                                                                     <U+2708>
                                                             t
                          <U+2660>
                                                 <U+2762>
                  <U+261E>
                                                                             <U+261E>
                          r
                                                                     <U+2761>
                                                             <U+2761>
                  <U+261B>
                                                 <U+261E>                   <U+261B>
                          <U+2666>                      <U+261B>                           <U+2666>
                                                             <U+2721>
                                                                             <U+261B>
                          <U+2762>
                                                                     <U+270D>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                             t
                                                                     <U+275D>
                          <U+261E>
                                                             <U+275B>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                             <U+275B>
                          <U+261B>
                                                 <U+2660>
                                                                     <U+275B>
                      <U+2461>
                                                 <U+275B>
                                                                 <U+2461>
                                                                             <U+2660>
                                                             <U+2762>
                  <U+2666>
                          <U+2660>
                                                 <U+2761>
                                                                             r
                                                             <U+261B>
                  <U+2767>
                                                 t                   <U+2660>
                                                             t
                          <U+275B>
                                                                             <U+2666>
                  <U+2663>
                                                                             <U+2762>
                                                                     <U+275B>
                                                             <U+261E>
                          <U+2761>
                                                 <U+2761>
                          t
                                                                     <U+2761>       <U+261E>
                                                             <U+2761>
                  <U+2660>
                                                                             <U+261B>
                                                 <U+270D>                   t
                                                 t
                                                             <U+275E>
                  <U+2761>
                          <U+2761>
                                                             <U+261B>
                                                                     <U+275B>
                          <U+261E>                      <U+2721>                           <U+2660>
                  <U+2761>
                          <U+261B>
                                                 <U+2721>
                                                                             <U+275B>
                                                                     <U+2761>
                  <U+2708>
                  <U+261B>
                                                 <U+2761>
                          <U+2660>
                                                                             <U+2761>
                                                                     <U+275E>
                                                                     <U+261B>       t
                          r
                  <U+2761>
                                                 <U+275D>
                                                                     <U+2708>
                  <U+275D>
                          <U+2761>
                                                 <U+2666>
                                                                             <U+2761>
                          t
                                                 r                   <U+2666>
                  <U+2761>
                          <U+2761>                                          r       <U+270D>
                                                                             t
                                                 P
                      |
                                                                     P
                          <U+2749>
                      <U+2735>           <U+2735>                      <U+2735>                       <U+2735>
                      <U+2736>                                  <U+2738>                   <U+2739>
                      <U+273B>           <U+273B>                      <U+273B>                       <U+273B>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+273B>

                                                                                              9/13
                                              <U+2744>
                          <U+2744>
<removed-date>
                                                                          <U+275A>
                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                              <U+2747>
                                              <U+2709>
                          <U+2721>
                                              <U+2666>
                          <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+276F>
                          t
                                                  <U+2461>
                      <U+2461>
                                                                          <U+270F>
                          <U+261E>
                      <U+2761>
                                              <U+2761>
                          <U+2666>
                                              r
                      <U+2708>
                      r
                                              <U+275B>
                          <U+2660>
                      <U+2709>
                                              <U+275E>
                          <U+2460>
                          <U+261B>
                      <U+2759>
                                              <U+2761>
                          <U+2721>
                                              <U+261B>
                      t
                                              <U+2762>
                          t
                                              <U+2721>
                      <U+2665>
                                              <U+261B>
                          <U+2721>
                                              t
                      <U+2761>
                          <U+275B>
                          <U+2767>
                                              <U+275B>
                      <U+2660>
                                              <U+2721>
                          <U+2761>
                      <U+2761>
                          <U+270D>
                                              <U+2707>
                      <U+2763>
                          t
                                              <U+2666>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+275B>
                          <U+261E>
                      <U+2763>
                          <U+270E>                   <U+274D>
                          <U+273F>                   <U+273F>
                      <U+2665>
                              <U+2736>
                          <U+261E>                   <U+261E>
                          <U+2666>                   <U+2666>
                          <U+261B>                   <U+261B>
                          t                   t
                          <U+2721>                   <U+2721>
                          <U+2761>                   <U+2761>
                          <U+2709>                   <U+2709>
                                  <U+2733>   <U+2733>               <U+2733>       <U+2733>
                          <U+25D7>       <U+2746>           <U+25D7>       <U+2746>
                                          <U+2747>                       <U+2747>
                  <U+273A>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                               <U+2746>
                                                                                                                               <U+273C>
                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                          t                                                t
                                                                      <U+2761>                                            <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                       <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                               <U+25CF>
                                                                      <U+275D>                                            <U+275D>
                                                          <U+261E>                                                <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                           <U+2732>
                                                                      <U+261B>                                            <U+261B>
                                                                                                                               
                                                          <U+2761>                                                <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                      <U+2708>                                            <U+2708>       <U+2735>
                                                          <U+261B>                                                <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2767>                                                <U+2767>
                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                      <U+2761>                                            <U+2761>       <U+2736>
                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
                                                          <U+2748>                                                <U+2748>
                                                                      <U+2749>                                            <U+2749>
                                                                                                       <U+2660>
                                                                                                   <U+275E>
                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                                   <U+2709>
                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                   <U+2767>
                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                                                                   <U+2748>
                                                                                                       P
                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                          r
                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                          t
                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+273C>

                  <U+2735>
                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                          10/13
<removed-date>
                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2747>
                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273C>
                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                      <U+2732>
                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                      <U+275A>
                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                              t
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                          <U+2773>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                      <U+2666>
                                  <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                      <U+2772>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                      t
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                  <U+2767>                                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+275E>
                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275A>
                                                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                      <U+275E>                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+275B>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                  <U+2721>                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                  s                                                                                                                                                               r
                      <U+2761>
                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274A>
                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2746>
                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                  <U+261B>
                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                  <U+275A>
                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2746>
                      <U+275D>
                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                                              t
                                                  <U+261E>
                      <U+2761>
                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                  <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                  <U+261B>
                          |
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+2766>
                                                  t
                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                  r
                                                  <U+275B>
                      <U+270C>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                  <U+275D>
                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                      <U+261B>
                                                  <U+275B>
                                      <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                      <U+261E>
                                      <U+2787>
                                                      <U+2771>
                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>                   <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                      <U+2788>
                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                  s
                      <U+275B>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                      r
                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                  <U+275B>
                      <U+275A>
                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                      |
                                                  <U+275A>                   <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                          s
                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                          |
                                          <U+2761>
                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                  s
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                          r
                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>                   <U+2736>
                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                          <U+2709>
                                                                          <U+2721>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                          t
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                          <U+2734>
                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                          <U+270D>
                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                          <U+261B>
                              P
                                          <U+270C>                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                  <U+275E>
                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                          t
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+2666>
                              <U+2666>
                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                              <U+261B>
                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                              t
                                                                          <U+2761>
                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                              <U+275D>
                                          r
                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                  s
                                                                                              <U+2461>
                                          <U+2666>
                              <U+2746>
                                                                          <U+2460>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                          t
                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                              <U+2772>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                              <U+2660>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                          r
                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>                                           <U+2709>
                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                              <U+2761>
                                                                                          t                                               <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                      |
                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                          <U+2761>
                                                          t                       <U+2660>                                                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                              <U+275A>
                                          t
                                                                                  r
                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                      <U+2746>                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2460>
                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>
                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                          <U+261B>               <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>                                                               <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                              <U+275C>                           <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                          r                                                                           r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                              <U+2771>           <U+275B>               <U+2749>       P       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                       <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                  t                                   <U+275E>                               r
                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2756>                   <U+270F>                                   <U+2746>                                   <U+274A>
                                                                                                                      <U+275A>                                                                                               <U+2748>
                                          <U+27B2>                               <U+27B2>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                      t
                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      r                                           <U+273C>
                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                      t
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                          t
              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                      t
              <U+273C>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2749>

                                                          11/13
<removed-date>
                                                                   s
                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                   s
                                                                   <U+2709>
                                                           <U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                           <U+2702>
                                                           <U+2710>
                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                   <U+275C>
                                                               <U+2707>
                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                           <U+2665>
                                                                   <U+275D>
<removed-apn>
                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                   <U+275B>
                                                           <U+2660>
                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                   <U+2660>
                                                                   r
                                                           <U+2763>
                                          <U+275E>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                           <U+275B>       <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+271A>
                                                  s
                                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+2665>
                                                                   <U+2762>
                                                  r
                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                   r
                                          <U+275E>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                           <U+271F>
                                  <U+2710>               <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                           <U+2665>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                                  <U+260E>
                                          <U+275E>       <U+2702>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                       <U+2663>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                  <U+275B>
                                          <U+275B>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                  <U+2736>
                                                                           <U+2718>
                                                  <U+275D>
                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                   <U+275E>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2710>
                                          s
                                                                           <U+270D>
                  <U+2660>
                                          <U+2710>
                                                           <U+2665>
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                  <U+2665>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                           <U+2710>
                                          <U+260E>
                  <U+275B>
                                  <U+2702>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                                   <U+275B>
                                                  <U+2709>
                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+2710>                <U+2708>
                                                                           <U+2719>
                  <U+2761>
                                                                           t
                          <U+2665>               <U+2704>
                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                   s
                                  <U+2660>               <U+2660>
                  <U+275A>
                                                           r               <U+270F>
                                          s
                          <U+2761>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                  r
                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                               <U+2663>
                      <U+273F>                                                    <U+2767>
                                                  <U+2660>
                                  r
                                                                   <U+2702>
                                          <U+2665>
                          <U+2660>       <U+2762>
                  <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                   <U+2710>
                      s
                                                  <U+2666>
                                                           <U+2660>
                      r
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+275A>
                          <U+2665>
                                                                   <U+2665>
                  <U+274B>
                                                               
                                          <U+2710>       <U+275D>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                                                       <U+2748>
                      <U+2761>
                                          <U+2702>
                          <U+2763>
                                                                   <U+2709>
                                                           <U+273F>
                      <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+275D>
                          <U+2710>
                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                   <U+2702>
                  <U+2763>
                                          <U+2709>
                          <U+260E>
                      r
                                                                                       <U+273C>
                                                           s
                                                                   r       <U+2718>
                                  <U+275B>
                                                  <U+275B>
                  <U+2665>
                                          <U+275D>
                          <U+275B>
                      <U+275B>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                           s
                  <U+2710>
                                                                   <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                  <U+275C>
                                                                                       <U+2733>
                      <U+2702>
                                          <U+2761>
                          <U+2761>
                                                  r
                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                           <U+2709>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                  <U+275E>
                          r
                      <U+2759>                       <U+2460>
                                                  <U+2763>        <U+275D>
                  <U+275D>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                                                       <U+25CF>
                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2761>
                          s                                s
                                                                           <U+270F>
                                                                                       
                  <U+275B>
                      <U+2665>
                                                           <U+2710>       <U+2666>
                                                                           
                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2762>
                          <U+2761>
                                  <U+2762>               <U+260E>
                  <U+2666>
                                          <U+2710>
                      <U+2666>
                          <U+2710>
                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                                                           <U+270F>
                      <U+2710>
                                                               <U+2749>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                   <U+2763>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2663>
                      <U+2702>
                          <U+2710>
                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                           <U+2756>
                                          <U+2761>
                          r                       <U+2702>                <U+2665>
                                  <U+275B>
                      <U+275B>
                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                          <U+2708>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                   r
                          <U+2666>
                                  <U+2761>
                      s
                                                           <U+275A>
                                                  <U+2709>
                          <U+2710>
                                  r
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                      r
                          r                                        <U+2761>
                                          r
                                                                           <U+261E>
                                  <U+2763>
                      <U+2761>
                                                           <U+2665>
                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                              <U+2663>
                                                                           <U+270E>
                                              <U+2663>
                                                                   <U+2702>
                      <U+2708>
                                                           <U+275B>
                                                                           <U+2717>
                                  <U+275E>
                                                  s        <U+260E>
                                                                   <U+2665>
                      <U+2665>
                                          <U+2660>
                          <U+2660>
                                  <U+2761>
                                          <U+2710>
                                                                           <U+2766>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                   <U+2709>
                                                               P
                      <U+2666>
                                                                   <U+260E>
                                                                           <U+270D>
                          <U+275B>
                                  <U+2708>
                                                  <U+275E>
                                  <U+2710>
                                          <U+275E>
                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                   <U+2666>
                          <U+2761>                                <U+2665>
                                          <U+260E>
                                                  <U+2709>
                          <U+2702>                                                <U+2716>
                                  <U+2761>
                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                   <U+2708>
                                                           <U+2666>
                                                                               <U+2761>
                                          <U+2709>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                           <U+2710>
                                  <U+275D>
                                                                               r
                      <U+275E>
                                                  <U+275D>
                                                           <U+2702>
                          <U+2763>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                                          <U+2666>
                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                                   <U+275E>
                                  <U+2761>
                      <U+2761>
                                                  <U+2665>
                                                           <U+275D>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                      <U+2702>
                          <U+2665>       r
                                          <U+275D>       <U+2710>                            <U+274D>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                          <U+2710>
                                                                               t
                                                                           <U+274B>
                      s
                                                           <U+2746>
                                                                   s
                                                                               <U+2460>
                                  <U+2736>       <U+2736>       <U+2736>
                                                                           <U+271E>
                      <U+2761>
                          <U+2660>
                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                                   <U+275B>
                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                               <U+275A>
                      <U+2763>   <U+2666>
                                                                           <U+261B>
                                  <U+2660>       <U+2660>       <U+2660>        <U+2660>
                                                                   <U+2761>
                                                                               r
                                                                           <U+2715>
                                                                   r
                          <U+275D>
                      <U+2763>
                                  <U+275B>       <U+275B>       <U+275B>        <U+275B>
                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                                           <U+271F>   t
                                                                   <U+275D>
                              <U+2663>
                                                                           <U+2720>
                      <U+2709>
                                  <U+2761>       <U+2761>       <U+2761>        <U+2761>
                                                                               <U+261E>
                                                                   <U+2665>
                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                   <U+274A>
                      <U+2759>       <U+276F>
                                  <U+275A>       <U+275A>       <U+275A>        <U+275A>       <U+2710>
                              <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>       <U+27B2>        <U+27B2>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+273C>

<removed-date>
                          12/13
<removed-apn>
                                                       <U+261E>
                                   <U+261E>
                                                       <U+2666>
                           <U+261E>
                                                       <U+261B>
                                           <U+261E>
                                   <U+2666>
                                                       t
                                   <U+261B>
                           <U+2666>
                                           <U+2666>
                           <U+261B>       t
                                                       <U+275B>
                           t
                                   <U+275B>
                                                       <U+275E>
                                           <U+275E>
                  <U+261E>
                           <U+275B>
                                                       <U+261E>
                                           <U+2761>
                  <U+2666>
                           <U+275E>       <U+2660>
                  <U+261B>
                                   r
                                           <U+2721>
                                                       <U+2761>
                  t
                           <U+261E>
                                   <U+2666>
                                           <U+275B>
                  <U+275B>
                           <U+2761>
                                   <U+2762>
                                                       <U+2660>
                                               <U+275C>
                                   <U+261E>
                  <U+2660>
                                   <U+261B>
                           <U+2660>
                                                       <U+2660>
                  r
                                           <U+2761>
                                                       <U+2666>
                  <U+2666>
                           <U+2660>
                                           <U+275D>
                  <U+2762>
                                   <U+2660>
                                                       <U+275D>
                           <U+2666>
                                           <U+275B>
                  <U+261E>
                                   <U+275B>
                                           <U+2762>
                                                       <U+2761>
                  <U+261B>
                           <U+275D>
                                           r
                                                       r
                                   <U+2761>
                           <U+2761>
                                   t
                                           <U+2761>
                           r
                                                       <U+261E>
                                           t
                  <U+2660>
                                   <U+2761>
                                           <U+261E>
                                                       <U+2666>
                  <U+275B>
                           <U+261E>
                                           <U+261B>           <U+261B>
                                   <U+270D>
                                                       t
                  <U+2761>
                           <U+2666>       t
                                           r
                  t
                           <U+261B>
                                                       <U+261E>
                           t
                                   r
                                           <U+2761>
                  r
                                                       <U+2761>
                           <U+261E>
                                           <U+2721>
                                   <U+2666>
                  <U+2666>
                                                       <U+2708>
                                   <U+2734>
                           <U+2761>
                  <U+2734>
                                           <U+2709>           r
                                   <U+275E>
                           <U+2708>
                  <U+275E>
                                                       <U+2761>
                           r
                                   <U+261E>
                                           <U+275B>
                                                       t
                  <U+261E>
                           <U+2761>
                                                       <U+261E>
                                   <U+275B>
                           t
                  <U+275B>
                                                       <U+261B>
                                           <U+275B>
                                           <U+261B>
                           <U+261E>
                                                       <U+2767>
                                   <U+261E>
                           <U+261B>
                  <U+261E>
                                           <U+2708>
                                                       <U+275B>
                                                           <U+273D>
                                   <U+2666>
                           <U+2767>
                                                       <U+261B>
                  <U+2666>
                                   <U+261B>
                                           <U+2721>
                  <U+261B>
                                   t
                                           <U+2767>           <U+275D>
                           <U+275B>
                  t
                           <U+261B>
                                                           <U+2733>
                                   <U+275B>
                                           <U+2761>
                                                       <U+2666>
                  <U+275B>
                           <U+275D>
                                                       <U+2721>
                                           <U+261E>
                           <U+2666>       <U+2660>
                  <U+2660>
                                   r
                                           <U+261E>
                           <U+2721>
                  r
                                                       <U+275E>
                                                           <U+25CF>
                                   <U+2666>
                                           <U+275B>
                  <U+2666>
                                   <U+2762>
                                                       <U+2761>
                                                           
                  <U+2762>        <U+275E>
                                           <U+270D>
                                                       <U+2461>
                                   <U+261E>
                  <U+261E>        <U+2761>
                                                       <U+261B>
                                   <U+261B>
                                           <U+275D>
                                                       <U+2767>
                  <U+261B>
                           <U+2461>
                                   <U+2767>
                                                           <U+274B>
                                           <U+2767>
                           <U+261B>
                                                       <U+275B>
                           <U+2767>
                  <U+2761>
                                   <U+275B>
                                           <U+275B>
                                                       <U+261E>
                                           <U+261B>
                           <U+275B>
                  <U+2761>
                                   <U+2709>
                                           <U+275D>
                                                       <U+2666>
                           <U+261E>
                      <U+2461>
                                   <U+275E>
                                                       <U+2721>
                                   <U+261B>       <U+2666>
                           <U+2666>
                  <U+2666>
                                                       r
                  <U+2767>
                                           <U+2721>
                                   <U+2708>
                           <U+2721>
                                   <U+261B>
                                                       <U+2761>
                           r
                  <U+2663>
                                           <U+2762>
                                   <U+275E>
                                                       <U+2663>
                           <U+2761>
                                           <U+2666>
                                   <U+261E>
                  <U+2660>
                                   <U+261B>
                           <U+2663>
                                           t
                                                       <U+2761>
                  <U+2761>
                                           <U+2761>
                                                       <U+270D>
                                   <U+2761>
                           <U+275B>
                                                       t
                  <U+2761>                        <U+2721>
                                   <U+270D>
                  <U+2708>                t
                           <U+2761>
                                                       <U+270C>
                  <U+261B>
                                           <U+275B>
                           <U+261E>
                                                       <U+261E>
                  <U+2761>
                                   <U+261E>
                           <U+261B>
                                                       <U+261B>
                                           <U+2761>
                  <U+275D>
                                   <U+2666>
                                                       <U+261E>
                           <U+2660>
                                           <U+275E>
                                                       <U+261B>
                  <U+2761>
                                           <U+261B>
                           r
                                   <U+275E>
                                           <U+2708>
                           <U+2761>
                      |
                                                       <U+2660>
                                   <U+2761>
                           t
                                                       r
                                           <U+2666>
                                   <U+2721>
                                           r
                           <U+2761>
                                                       <U+2761>
                                                       t
                                   <U+275B>
                                           P
                           <U+2749>
                                                       <U+2761>
                                       <U+275C>
                                                       <U+275E>
                      <U+2735>        <U+2735>                   <U+2735>
                      <U+2736>                            <U+2738>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13/13
                                                                                                  <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+272A>
                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2726>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                              r                                                                                                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                              <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                               <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                              <U+2666>                                       <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                      <U+275C>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2663>
                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                      <U+2701>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274A>
                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                  <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>
                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
                      <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                              <U+261B>                                                               <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275D>
                                                                                  <U+2666>                                                       <U+2747>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2710>
                                                  P                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                                                                                              r                                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                      <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>                                   <U+275D>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2746>                                                                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2707>                                                   s
                                                                  <U+2708>                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                  <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                      <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                      s                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                  <U+2660>               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2764>
                                                                                              <U+275B>
                                                                                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                                           <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2665>                                                   r
                                                                                                                                      <U+2746>
                      <U+2746>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2461>
                                                  <U+275B>               <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25BC>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>                                                                           <U+2710>
                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                                   <U+2461>                                       <U+2665>
                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2709>
                                                                                              <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+272B>
                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+2786>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2710>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t
                                  s                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                      <U+2756>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+270C>
                                                                  <U+2746>                                                   <U+2461>
                                                  <U+275A>                                           <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+25D7>                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  r
                                  <U+2710>                                                                                                                                       <U+2768>                                                                                   <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                  <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2706>
                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>                                                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                      s
                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+273F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+273F>
                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                  <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2605>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2721>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2721>
                                                                                      t                                               <U+273F>                                       t                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                                  <U+2663>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                      r                                                                                       r                                                                               r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2461>
                                                                                              <U+275E>                   <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                      <U+2761>                           <U+261B>                                                           <U+2761>                                   <U+2666>                                           <U+2761>
                                                                                      <U+2767>                                                   <U+2761>                                   <U+2767>                                                                               <U+2767>
                                  r
                                                                                              <U+261E>                                                                                                   <U+2762>                                                                               <U+2665>
                                                                                                                  r                                                                                               r
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+275A>                                                   <U+2702>                                                   <U+2759>                                   <U+2702>                                                                               <U+2702>                   <U+2666>
                                                                                              <U+275B>                   <U+2663>                                                                               <U+2666>               <U+2663>
                                                                                          <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>
                                      <U+272A>                       <U+272A>           <U+272A>                                                                                                       <U+272A>                           <U+272A>                   <U+272A>                                                                                                           <U+272A>                       <U+272A>               <U+272A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2733>                                                                                                                       <U+2733>
                                                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>
                                          <U+2736>                   <U+2739>               <U+273C>                                                                                                       <U+2736>                       <U+2739>                       <U+273C>                                                                                                           <U+2736>                   <U+2739>                   <U+273C>
                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                              <U+273A>                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                          t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                               t
                                          <U+273A>                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                                              <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2733>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2733>                                                                                                                               <U+2733>
                                                                                                      <U+2660>                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                               <U+2660>                                       <U+2666>                                                                                               <U+2660>                       <U+2666>
                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                              <U+2461>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2461>                                                                                                                               <U+2461>
                                                                                                      <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                                                                                                                          t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>                                                                                                                                               <U+271F>
                                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                          <U+261B>           <U+2761>                                                                                                                                               <U+261B>           <U+2761>                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>   <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          r                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2761>                                                                                                                       <U+2761>
                                                                                                                          <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                          <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>                                                                                                                                               <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          r                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                                                               r
                                                                                                      <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                          <U+261E>                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                      r                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                          <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2663>                                                                                                                               <U+2663>
                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270C>                                                                                                                                                       <U+270C>                                                                                                                       <U+270C>
                          <U+261E>                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>
                                                                                                      <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2762>                                                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                              <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>                                                                                                                               <U+2736>
                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                      <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                                                                       <U+2761>
                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                                                                                                                          <U+25D7>                                                                                                                                                           <U+25D7>                                                                                                                               <U+25D7>
                                                                                                      <U+270D>                                                                                                                                                           <U+270D>                                                                                                                                       <U+270D>
                          <U+2763>                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2763>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>                                                                                                                                                       <U+275D>                                                                                                                       <U+275D>
                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                       <U+275B>                                                                                                                       <U+275B>
                          <U+271F>                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>                                                                                                                                                           <U+271F>
                                                                                                      <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                          <U+2708>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2708>                                                                                                                               <U+2708>
                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2720>
                                                                                                      t                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                               t                                       <U+2666>                                                                                               t                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>                                                                                                                                                       <U+275D>                                                                                                                       <U+275D>
                                                                                                                          <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                               <U+261B>
                          <U+2721>                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>
                                                                                                      <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2721>                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                                          <U+270D>                       r                                                                                                                                   <U+270D>                   r                                                                                                           <U+270D>           r
                                                                                                      <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2709>                                                                                                                                       <U+2709>
                                                                                                                          <U+275D>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275D>                                                                                                                               <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                      <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2762>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2762>                                                                                                                       <U+2762>
                          <U+2711>                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                                                                          <U+275B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275B>                                                                                                                               <U+275B>
                                                                                                      <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2721>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2721>                                                                                                                       <U+2721>
                                                                                                          <U+275C>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>                                                                                                                                       <U+275C>
                                                                                                                          <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                                               <U+2666>
                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                               t
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2709>                                                                                                                       <U+2709>
                                                                                                      t                                                                                                                                                           t                                                                                                                                       t
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                                          r                                                                                                                                                           r                                                                                                                               r
                          <U+275A>                                                                                                                                           <U+275A>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275A>
                                                                                                      <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261E>                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2719>                                                                                                                                               <U+2719>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                           <U+261B>                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                          <U+261E>                                                                                                                                               <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                                                                      <U+2666>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2666>                                                                                                                                       <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+275C>                                                                                                                                                       <U+275C>                                                                                                                       <U+275C>
                                                                                                                              <U+275C>                                                                                                                                                           <U+275C>                                                                                                                               <U+275C>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+273E>
                                              <U+2717>                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2717>
                                                                                                      <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2663>                                                                                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                          <U+271E>                                                                                                                                               <U+271E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                  t                                                                                                                                                       t                                                                                                                       t
                                                          <U+2767>                                                                                                                                               <U+2767>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2767>
                                                                                                                          <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2660>                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261E>                                                                                                                       <U+261E>
                                                          <U+2720>                                                                                                                                               <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2733>
                                              <U+2711>                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2711>
                                                                      <U+274B>                                                                                                                                                       <U+274B>                                                                                                                                                   <U+274B>
                                                                                                          <U+2735>                                       <U+261B>                                                                                                                   <U+2735>                                   <U+261B>                                                                                                   <U+2735>                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2761>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2761>                                                                                                                               <U+2761>
                                                          <U+270E>                                                                                                                                               <U+270E>                                                                                                                                                       <U+270E>
                                              <U+270E>                       <U+270D>                                                                           <U+2666>                                       <U+270E>                                   <U+270D>                                                                           <U+2666>                                           <U+270E>                           <U+270D>                                               <U+2666>
                                                                                                          <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2736>                                                                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                                      <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>                                                                                                                                                   <U+261B>
                                                                                                                          <U+2660>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2660>                                                                                                                               <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2663>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2663>                                                                                                                       <U+2663>
                                                          <U+2764>                                                                                                                                               <U+2764>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2764>
                                              <U+2714>                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2714>
                                                                      <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                       <U+2720>                                                                                                                                                   <U+2720>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                              <U+2746>           <U+2712>           <U+274A>                                                                                                                   <U+2746>               <U+2712>                   <U+274A>                                                                                                                       <U+2746>           <U+2712>               <U+274A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
              <U+2735>                                                                                                                                           <U+2735>                                                                                                                                                           <U+2735>
              <U+2736>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                  <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                              <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2732>
                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2708>
                                                                                                              <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+261B>
                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2749>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2660>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2762>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+275B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          P
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2766>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+275E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2709>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2707>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2666>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              t
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2767>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2748>
                                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+25C6>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+2735>

