H:\kmh\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\KMH\16949752_. dox-[l1/05/20l8
                                                                        ABSTRACT
One              embodiment                          is         directed       to      a     system            for     scanning
electromagnetic                                      imaging            radiation,          comprising:               a      drive
electronics                         system configured                        to   generate         at     least      one pixel
modulation                        signal;                     at    least     one     electromagnetic                radiation
source                 configured                        to      modulate      light      from       the       at   least        one
electromagnetic                                 radiation               source     based       on     the      at   least        one
pixel               modulation                          signal;          a  first      waveguide             configured            to
produce a                       first projected field                            area;     and a second waveguide
configured to produce a second projected field area. Each                                                                          of
the           first             waveguide                      and   the   second      waveguide            is    operatively
coupled                      to        the              at       least      one      electromagnetic                 radiation
source.                      The          drive                 electronics          system         is      configured             to
luminance                       modulate                     at   least     one     of   the      first         waveguide          or
second                 waveguide                      concurrent           with      the    first        projected           field
area             sharing                 an        overlapping             area      with      the      second       projected
field area.
 [Figure 1]

     1/19
2
  4          6
    Figure 1

                ULTRA-HIGH  RESOLUTION  SCANNING  FIBER DISPLAY
                        RELATED APPLICATION   DATA
      The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119
to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.   61/752,972 filed January
15, 2013. The foregoing application is hereby incorporated by
reference into the present application in its entirety.
                            FIELD OF THE  INVENTION
      The present invention relates generally to compact imaging
systems for use in capturing and/or projecting images, and more
particularly to configurations involving image processing via a
plurality of fiber cores.
                                  BACKGROUND
      For the military, as well as civilian, pilot, situational
awareness is of primary importance. For example, Controlled
Flight Into Terrain    (CFIT) incidents result from a lack of
information con-cerning an impending catastrophic collision with
the environment. The through-the-cockpit view of the pilot may
be impeded by visibility conditions      (dark of night, inclement
weather),   or because of a need to intentionally obscure the view
via curtains or electronic darkening of the canopy to protect
against directed energy threats.
                                      1

     Information concerning the status of aircraft systems,
flight path, altitude, air speed, attitude, and numerous other
flight parameters are also critical to total situational
awareness. Additionally, there is a wealth of data now available
to the pilot via off-board or on-board databases, as in the Real
Time Information In the Cockpit   (RTIC) concept, including but
not limited to weather info, location of hostile forces, air-to
air and surface-to-air threats, mission information, and terrain
detail.  Another source of information comes from high
resolution on-board sensors, e.g. Forward Looking Infrared
(FLIR) and night vision sensors. This tremendous influx of
available data may be presented to the crew either through Head
Down Displays  (HDDs), Head Up Displays  (HUDs), or some
combination of both. HDDs have the obvious disadvantage that the
pilot's head is down, rather than engaged and focused on the
scene out the cockpit. HUDs are disadvantaged in that the
information is only viewable through the eyebox which is
typically fixed on the aircraft's bore sight.
     Head Mounted Displays  (HMDs), which optically relay the
output from one or more helmet-mounted microdisplays to display
images within the pilot's field-of-view   (FOV), allow the pilot
to remain focused outside the cockpit, while presenting
pertinent situational data as visual cues or symbology overlaid
on top of the visual scene, or even as fully artificial
rendering of the terrain and scene outside of the cockpit in the
case of impaired visibility. Because the display system moves
with the pilots head, he/she can keep the displayed information
within their field of view  (FOV) at all times.
      To fully utilize the extensive capabilities of the human
visual system, an HMD should provide a large horizontal and
vertical FOV, high spatial resolution, and a large color depth.
                                 2

In addition, luminance is very important, as a see-through
display must be bright enough to be able to clearly display
information against a high-glare background. Aircraft airspeeds,
nearby fast moving objects and information, and rapid head
movements by the pilot mean that a high frame rate is necessary
as well.
     The FOV of the HMD may be determined by the microdisplay
image size together with the viewing optics. The human visual
system has a total FOV of about 2000  horizontal by 1300 hori
zontal, but most HMDs provide on the order of 40   FOV. For
synthetic vision applications, where a plethora of operational
data is available, a much larger field of view approaching that
of human visual capabilities will enable the presence of
peripheral visual cues that reduce head-scanning by the pilot
and increases their sense of self-stabilization. An angular
resolution of about 50-60 arc-seconds is a threshold for 20/20
visual acuity performance, and it is determined by the pixel
density of the microdisplay. To best match the capabilities of
the average human visual system, an HMD should provide 20/20
visual acuity over a 40  by 40   FOV, so at an angular resolution
of 50 arc-seconds this equates to about 8 megapixels   (Mpx). To
increase this to a desired 1200 by 800  FOV would require nearly
50 Mpx.
     Because there are several HMD systems in service today,
many of which are standardized around a 12 mm diagonal image
source with relay and viewing optics designed for this display
size, it is useful to fit new display technologies within this
envelope and be essentially swappable with the microdisplays
already in place in order to be of the greatest utility.
     In order to fit 8 Mpx in this 12 mm format, the pixel size
may be 3 microns or smaller. Current state of the art in HMD
                                3

microdisplay technology does not offer sufficient resolution and
FOV at the high frame rates needed to provide the minimum
desired  (20/20 acuity) visual requirements for future pilot
HMDs. The pixel density of currently deployed image sources,
such as AMOLED, AM-LCD, and LCOS is constrained by the minimum
achievable pixel size. For each of these technologies, color
display requires 3 side-by-side elements, further constraining
effective pixel pitch and resultant angular resolution, so new
enabling technologies must be pursued.
     There is a need for improved compact imaging systems which
may be utilized in various applications such as HMD
applications.   Various embodiments are presented herein to
address this challenge.
                                 4

                                     1.d-ex-11/05/20
   H-\k h~lnerwvenNR~nbl\CC\MH1695421_         18
                                                         SUMMARY
          In one example embodiment there is provided a system                         for
scanning electromagnetic imaging radiation, comprising:                             a drive
electronics                 system configured to generate at             least one pixel
modulation signal;                          at least one electromagnetic radiation source
configured to modulate light from the at                             least one electromagnetic
radiation             source based on the at                 least one pixel modulation
signal;           a first waveguide                  configured to produce  a first projected
field area;                 and a second waveguide configured to produce a second
projected field area, wherein each of the first waveguide and the
second waveguide                        is    operatively coupled to the at   least one
electromagnetic radiation source,                             and wherein the drive
electronics                 system is configured to luminance modulate at             least
one of         the first waveguide                    or second waveguide concurrent with the
first projected field area sharing an overlapping area with the
second projected field area.
                                                            4A

     One embodiment is directed to a compact system for scanning
electromagnetic imaging radiation, comprising a first waveguide
and a second waveguide, each of which is operatively coupled to
at least one electromagnetic radiation source and configured
such that output from the first and second waveguides is
luminance modulated and scanned along one or more axes to form
at least a portion of an image.    At least of the one of the
first or second waveguides may comprise an optical fiber.     The
optical fiber may comprise a cladding and at least one core.
The optical fiber may comprise two or more cores occupying the
same cladding.   The optical fiber may be a single-mode optical
fiber.   The optical fiber may be a multi-mode optical fiber.
The optical fiber may be a step-index optical fiber.    The
optical fiber may be a graded-index optical fiber.    The optical
fiber may be a photonic crystal optical fiber.    The least one
electromagnetic radiation source may be configured to produce
electromagnetic radiation having a wavelength in the ultraviolet
to infrared range.   The at least one electromagnetic radiation
source may be configured to produce visible light
electromagnetic radiation.   Both the first and second waveguides
may be co-located within the same host medium.    The first and
second waveguides may be co-located within separate host
mediums.   The system further may comprise a scanning actuator
operatively coupled to at least one of the first and second
waveguides and configured to physically displace said at least
one of the first and second waveguides.    The scanning actuator
may comprise a piezoelectric actuation element.    The scanning
actuator may be coupled to both of the first and second
waveguides and configured to physically displace them together.
                                 5

A first scanning actuator may be coupled to the first waveguide,
and a second scanning actuator may be coupled to the second
waveguide, such that the first and second waveguides may be
actuated independently.  The system further may comprise a first
scanning actuator operatively coupled to and configured to
physically displace the first waveguide along with at least one
other intercoupled waveguide, and a second scanning actuator
operatively coupled to and configured to physically displace the
second waveguide along with at least one other intercoupled
waveguide. The first waveguide and at least one other
intercoupled waveguide may comprise a single multicore fiber.
The output from the first and second waveguides may be passed to
a scanning element configured to scan said output along the one
or more axes.  The scanning element may be selected from the
group consisting of:  a MEMS mirror scanner, a deformable
membrane mirror, a scanning prism, and a scanning lens.    The at
least one electromagnetic radiation source may comprise two
independent electromagnetic radiation sources, a first
electromagnetic radiation source operatively coupled to the
first waveguide, and a second electromagnetic radiation source
operatively coupled to the second waveguide.  The at least one
electromagnetic radiation source may comprise a composite source
configured to inject a plurality of wavelengths of radiation
into at least one of the first or second waveguides.   The
composite source may be configured to inject red, green, and
blue visible light radiation wavelengths.  The composite source
may comprise a plurality of individual sources operatively
coupled together with a combiner.  The combiner may comprise a
wavelength division multiplexer.  The at least one
electromagnetic radiation source may comprise a directly
modulatable emitter.  The directly-modulatable emitter may
                                6

comprise a diode laser. The directly-modulatable emitter may
comprise a light-emitting diode. The at least one
electromagnetic radiation source may comprise an emitter
operatively coupled to a modulator. The modulator may comprise
an interferometric modulator. The modulator may comprise a
Mach-Zehnder  interferometric modulator. The modulator may
comprise an acousto-optical modulator. The modulator may
comprise a shutter. The output from the first and second
waveguides may be scanned in a spiral  scan pattern. The image
at an image plane may have a diameter that  is larger than a
combined cross sectional geometric measurement of the first and
second waveguides. The system further may comprise a plurality
of additional waveguides, the first,  second, and plurality of
additional waveguides being arranged in a hexagonally-packed
array configuration. Image  field areas associated with the
outputs of each of the first, second, and plurality of
additional waveguides may be overlapped by a minimum amount
determined by a common intersection of three equal circles. In
a configuration featuring more than one core   (i.e., a socalled
"multicore" configuration),  the cores may be arranged in a
hexagonally-packed array configuration. The system further may
comprise first and second lenses  coupled to the first and
second waveguides such that  imaging radiation transmitted
through the first  and second waveguides is passed through the
first and second lenses before being output to form the portion
of the image. The first and second lenses may comprise gradient
index lenses.  The first and second lenses may comprise
refractive lenses.
     In another example embodiment, there is provided a compact
system for scanning electromagnetic imaging radiation,
comprising:  a drive electronics system configured to generate
at least one pixel modulation signal;  at least one
electromagnetic radiation source configured to modulate light
                                7

from the at least one electromagnetic radiation source based on
the at least one pixel modulation signal;   a first waveguide
configured to follow a first scan pattern and produce a first
projected field area;  a second waveguide configured to follow a
second scan pattern and produce a second projected field area;
and a first  scanning actuator operatively coupled to and
configured to physically displace the first waveguide along
with at least one other intercoupled waveguide, and a second
scanning actuator operatively coupled to and configured to
physically displace the second waveguide along with at least
one other intercoupled waveguide, wherein each of the first and
the second waveguide is   operatively coupled to the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source,   and wherein the drive
electronics is configured to luminance modulate at least one of
the first waveguide or second waveguide concurrent with the
first projected field area overlapping with the second
projected field area.
     In another example embodiment, there is provided a system
for scanning electromagnetic imaging radiation, comprising:    a
drive electronics system configured to generate at least one
pixel modulation  signal;  at least one electromagnetic radiation
source configured to modulate light from the at   least one
electromagnetic radiation source based on the at least one
pixel modulation  signal;  a first waveguide configured to follow
a first  scan pattern and produce a first projected field area;
a second waveguide configured to follow a second scan pattern
and produce a second projected field area;   and a scanning
actuator operatively coupled to and configured to physically
displace the first and second waveguide along with at least one
other intercoupled waveguide, wherein each of the first
waveguide and the second waveguide is   operatively coupled to
the at  least one electromagnetic radiation source, and wherein
the drive electronics system is configured to luminance
                                 7A

modulate at least one of the first waveguide or second
waveguide concurrent with the first projected field area
overlapping with the second projected field area.
     In another example embodiment, there is provided a system
for scanning electromagnetic imaging radiation, comprising:  a
drive electronics system configured to generate at least one
pixel modulation signal; at least one electromagnetic radiation
source configured to modulate light from the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source based on the at least one
pixel modulation signal; a first waveguide configured to follow
a first scan pattern and produce a first projected field area;
a second waveguide configured to follow a second scan pattern
and produce a second projected field area; and a first scanning
actuator operatively coupled to and configured to physically
displace the first waveguide, and a second scanning actuator
operatively coupled to and configured to physically displace
the second waveguide, the second waveguide being intercoupled
with the first waveguide, wherein each of the first waveguide
and the second waveguide is operatively coupled to the at least
one electromagnetic radiation source, and wherein the drive
electronics system is configured to luminance modulate at least
one of the first waveguide or second waveguide concurrent with
the first projected field area overlapping with the second
projected field area.
                               7B

                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     Figure 1 illustrates a fiber scanning display being
supported by a hand of an operator.
     Figure 2 illustrates a fiber scanning display relative to a
coin to demonstrate size of a particular embodiment.
     Figure 3 illustrates one embodiment of a system
configuration in accordance with the present invention.
     Figure 4 illustrates an overlapping configuration.
     Figure 5 illustrates a projected display area in accordance
with one embodiment.
     Figures 6A and 6B illustrate a configuration wherein
multiple fiber scanning displays are coupled together in an
array or matrix.
     Figures 7A and 7B illustrate conventional multicore fiber
configurations.
     Figure 8 illustrates an embodiment wherein two waveguides
are collocated within one host medium.
     Figure 9 illustrates an embodiment wherein two waveguides
are collocated within two host mediums.
                                 8

     Figure 10 illustrates movement of a configuration such as
that illustrated in Figure 8.
     Figure 11 illustrates movement of a configuration featuring
two host medium / waveguide configurations similar to those
depicted in Figure 9, wherein the two host mediums are
intercoupled to move together.
     Figure 12 illustrates movement of a configuration featuring
two host medium / waveguide configurations similar to those
depicted in Figure 9, wherein the two host mediums are
configured to move independently.
     Figure 13 illustrates movement of a configuration featuring
two host medium / waveguide configurations similar to those
depicted in Figure 8, wherein the two host mediums are
configured to move independently.
     Figure 14 illustrates a hexagonal packed multicore
waveguide configuration.
     Figures 15A and 15B illustrate multicore waveguide
configurations wherein individual cores are hexagonal packed
within the multicore construct.
     Figure 16A illustrates a configuration similar to that of
Figure 12, with emissions being output from the distal ends of
the waveguides.
                                9

     Figure 16B illustrates a configuration similar to that of
Figure 16A, with the exception that emissions being output from
the distal ends of the waveguides are passed through
intercoupled lenses.
                                10

                           DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     In order to address the abovedescribed challenge, two
general configurations for producing a color, ultra-high
definition micro-display (CUDM) using a Fiber Scanned Display
(FSD) technology, such as those described in U.S. Patents
6,046,720;  7,555,333;   7,784,697;   and U.S. Patent Application
Serial Numbers 11/573,118 and 12/468,832, are presented herein.
Each of these five references is incorporated by reference
herein in its entirety.   These two general configurations are
characterized by their ability to satisfy the minimum desired
requirements for the CUDM, the cost and complexity of
implementation, and for their ability to meet or exceed the
maximum desired requirements. Figure 1 illustates an FSD
configuration  (4) being held by the hand (2) of an operator
while an image  (6) is projected upon a nearby surface.
     As described in the aforementioned references, in one
embodiment, a FSD operates by vibrating the tip of an optical
fiber using a piezoelectric actuator while modulating the
intensity of the light transmitted down its core to form an
image. Because the singlemode core retains the coherence of the
transmitted light it acts as a point source and can be imaged to
a diffraction-limited spot, the size of which is determined by
the scan lens. By imaging the scan to a plane just in front of
the scan lens, a spot size smaller than 3 microns can be
generated.  One embodiment of the FSD is capable of displaying
an effective 500 x 500 lines of resolution    (in actuality a tight
spiral of 250 cycles producing a circular display area, such as
in the embodiment of Figure 1, element 6).    Pixel spacing along
this spiral is a function of the pixel modulation rate, and is
20 MHz under typical operating conditions of one embodiment.
                                 11

With a mechanical scan frequency of 11.5 kHz,    this results in a
frame rate of 30 Hz, with about 2000 pixels per spiral cycle of
the scan if the pixel modulation is kept constant, producing
about 250,000 pixels. Scan rates as high as 24 kHz have been
achieved in the lab, which would allow the same resolution to be
produced at about a 60 Hz frame rate. A 72 Hz frame rate can be
achieved by driving the fiber at about 28 kHz.    The frame rate,
resolution, and scan angle are dynamically adjustable by
increasing or decreasing the scan frequency and scan amplitude,
with frame rates between 15 Hz and 60 Hz typically achieved at
varying resolutions, and scan angles as high as 1200.    The FSD's
extremely small size   (such as in the range of 1 mm diameter x 7
mm long, as shown in the embodiment of Figure 2, wherein an FSD
4 is shown relative to the size of a U.S. 10 cent coin 8) lends
itself well in applications where size and weight are a concern,
and because the drive electronics, light sources, and power can
all be located remotely from the scanner head itself, it is
particularly well suited for use in HMDs.     A system
configuration is illustrated in Figure 3, along with an
associated piezo drive signal plot and spiral scan pattern
diagram.  Referring to Figure 3, an exemplary embodiment of an
FSD is illustrated. Radiation sources, such as a red laser 28,
green laser 30,  and blue laser 32 are combined into a single
waveguide  (e.g., RGB combiner 34).   The waveguide, such as
singlemode optical fiber 20,   relays light to the tip of the
waveguide  (e.g., a cantilevered fiber tip 12),   where it is
emitted and passes through optional lens assembly 10, which
preferably brings the emitted light to focus at an image plane
(e.g., a spiral scanned image 14).    The waveguide tip 12 is
scanned along one or more axes by an actuator, such as a
piezoelectric tube actuator 17,    such that the light emitted at
                                  12

the tip of the waveguide is preferably scanned in an area
filling scan pattern at an image plane, such as a spiral scanned
image 14. Actuator 17 may be affixed to an enclosure with an
attachment collar 16. A drive electronics system 22 may generate
a drive signal 24 for a piezoelectric actuator 17,    to control
the actuation of said actuator 17.   The drive electronics 22 may
also generate a pixel modulation signal 26 to modulate the
luminance of the radiation sources 28,   30,  and 32, such that
pixels are formed at the image plane 14.    In one embodiment, the
actuator drive signal 24 is modulated in accordance with the
exemplary pattern shown in orthogonal   (x) axis plot 40,  such
that the signal constitutes a sinusoidal drive signal that is
amplitude modulated over time. In one embodiment, the drive
signal 24 comprises a sinusoidal signal portion that drives one
scan axis of actuator 17, as well as a second sinusoidal signal
portion that drives a second scan axis, with the second
sinusoidal drive signal being phase-shifted relative to the
first drive signal portion such that the waveguide tip 12 sweeps
through a circular scan pattern.   In one embodiment, a sinusoidal
drive signal 24 is amplitude modulated over time to dilate and
contract this circular scan pattern to form an area-filling
spiral scan pattern 38.
     To produce a larger display with greater total lines of
resolution, while maintaining frame rate and pixel density,
multiple FSDs may be assembled into a two-dimensional array.       If
the focusing optics are such that the projected field area is
slightly larger than the physical diameter of the projector, or
about 1.2 mm in diameter at the focal distance of the optics
(e.g., for a FSD module diameter of approximately 1 mm),     these
field areas can be overlapped a minimum amount determined by the
common intersection of three equal circles    (as shown, for
                                13

example, in Figure 4, element 42;        the common intersection of
the circles is at element 43;      element 45 illustrates an
overlapping region;    element 47 illustrates a nonoverlapping
region),  thus producing a fully filled rectangular display area.
The array may then be scaled to any vertical and horizontal
dimension desired. To achieve a desired 8 Mpx display in a 12 mm
diagonal format   (at least 3840 x 2048 lines of resolution),         we
can create, e.g.,   an 11 x 7 hexagonal lattice of tiled FSDs,
producing an approximately 4375 x 2300 line        (or 10Mpx) display;
a suitable projected display area       (44) embodiment is depicted in
Figure 5.
      Tiling in this way produces more lines of resolution than
are natively available in an individual display. An advantage to
tiling slightly magnified images projected with FSDs is that no
additional optical blending is required to conceal the boundary
of the display hardware.      Figure   6A illustrates an exemplary
tiled display configuration wherein an array of 11x7 FSDs           (46)
are coupled to the same housing or platform        (48) such that they
may be moved in unison if such movement is desired in a
particular embodiment;     in other embodiments, individual
actuation, such as by an FSD mechanism as shown         (4),  may be
utilized to uniquely and independently actuate each of the FSDs.
Figure  6B illustrates a projected display area        (44)  at a
particular image plane that may result from such a configuration
wherein a matrix of FSDs are utilized together from a common
platform or coupling    (48).
      To produce a seamless image that appears to the viewer as a
single, high-resolution, monolithic display, there are several
important challenges, including geometric registration, and
photometric seamlessness.
                                    14

     Geometric registration refers to the physical alignment of
each projector module with its neighbors. For the scans to
overlap in a predictable way, each FSD should be precisely
located with respect to adjacent FSDs. For standard table-top or
ceiling mounted projectors this can prove to be a complicated
and difficult process, but for the FSDs it is a relatively
simple matter of high-quality, precision machining of the
individual scanner housings and the main assembly housing.
     Several factors contribute to the uniformity of the image
as perceived by the viewer. Intra-projector luminance and
chrominance refers to the variation of brightness and color
within an individual projector, but because the FSD scans only a
single pixel using single light sources for each color channel,
luminance and chrominance should be entirely uniform for each
projector.
     Inter-projector luminance and chrominance refers to the
variation between individual projectors. Chrominance variations
are typically small, but luminance differences can be
significant between projectors. For the FSDs, the intensity of
the output from the laser diodes may be adjusted to bring the
projectors into agreement with one another.
     Because the FSDs scan a single pixel, the neighboring
scanners' pixels do not physically overlap. However,
perceptually, the luminance in these regions may nearly double
because the human visual system cannot temporally distinguish
between the projected spots. Methods of equalizing the
brightness between tiled conventional projectors may be employed
to equalize brightness in these overlapped scanned regions.
     A few technology providers, such as Corning and Nufern,
offer single mode, visible wavelength optical fibers with core
sizes as small 2.1 - 3.5 microns. However, even with a core size
                                15

of 2.5 microns, the Gaussian mode field diameter is about 3.5
microns. The design of high quality focusing optics of the FSDs
is useful to achieve a diffraction limited spot size for the
scanned pixel that falls under a 3 micron pixel size required to
achieve a desired resolution of the display.
     Additionally, each FSD produces a curved scan field at the
fiber tip, and the optical design should be optimized to
sufficiently flatten this field while minimizing distortion and
other aberrations.
     In this tiled approach, the overall scan angle has been
reduced to minimize overlap, maximize pixel density, and
minimize the overall extent of the display. However, this
results optically in a narrower eyebox      (the term "eyebox"
representing the volume through which an operator can move their
eye and still visualize the image;     generally it is desirable to
have a large eyebox) at the viewer's end. To overcome this, in
one embodiment the use of a lens,     e.g.,  a graded-index rod
lenses  ("GRIN" lenses),  to produce a larger numerical aperture
(NA) at the output of the tip of the scanning fiber display may
be employed (Figure 16B).
     Providers such as Asahi-Kasei and Mitsubishi of Japan offer
multi-core optical fibers or fused-tapered multi-core fibers.
Because these materials would facilitate the possibility of
scanning multiple pixels at once     (as opposed to the single pixel
presently scanned),   the total resolution of at the image plane
can be increased for a given scan frequency, and the effective
frame rate may be increased while maintaining or even increasing
the spatial resolution of the display.       Figures 7A and 7B
illustrate embodiments of available multi-core optical fiber
configurations  (Figure 7A illustrates a cross-sectional view 50
                                  16

of a multi-core configuration;   Figure 7B illustrates a side
view 52 of a tapered multi-core configuration).
     The abovedescribed technologies facilitate an ultra-high
resolution display that supports a large FOV in a head-mounted
or other near-to-eye display configuration.
     With regard to tiling, the images produced by the fiber
scanned display modules can be seamlessly tiled to form a
continuous composite image. When the scanned images from each
individual FSD in the tiled array images are partially
overlapped, the intersection of the scan fields will result in
regions of increased luminance, i.e.,  the composite image will
contain luminance non-uniformities. To provide greater luminance
uniformity in the composite image, a number of methods may be
employed, including blanking overlapping pixels and/or
modulating the luminance level of the FSDs in these regions
(e.g., reducing the luminance of each scanner at a given pixel
by 50%, when two scanners are addressing the same image area, so
the luminance sums to 100%  of the desired luminance level).
      In a multiple FSD configuration, the multiple FSDs
preferably are positioned in a tiled array using precision
fabrication techniques. For seamless integration, the separation
distance between the fiber centerlines is tightly controlled, as
is the orientation of the actuation axes on the piezoelectric
actuator tubes.
     Very small variations within the mechanical tolerances of
the optical fiber  (diameter, core/cladding concentricity, core
size, circularity of the fiber cross-section) may result in
variations in the mechanical behavior between fiber scanners.   In
a preferred embodiment, the drive signal to each actuator is
customized to compensate for such mechanical variations between
optical fibers in the array.
                                17

      In one embodiment, the FSDs in an array may be synchronized
to reduce any perceivable temporal or spatio-temporal artifacts
such as flicker or image tearing for moving images.
      With regard to scan optics, the preferred embodiments of
the FSD produce a curved scan field at the tip of fiber, so the
optical system that relays the image to the eye preferably
performs a field-flattening function    (by, e.g., the inclusion of
a negative lens in the optical train),    in addition to
magnification. The fiber optics and subsequent scan optics also
preferably maximize the object-side numerical aperture      (NA) to
support a large eye box to a viewer. Increasing the NA also
reduces the spot size at the image plane, enabling more pixels
to be densely packed within a small region of the image plane.
Standard fiber can provide a starting mode field diameter of 3-4
microns for visible light. By adding a lens to the tip of the
fiber  (e.g., a conventional curved lens or a graded-index GRIN
lens)  as illustrated in Figure 16B, the NA from the fiber is
increased   (and thereby the spot size or "mode field diameter at
the tip is reduced).   By adding a strong lens at the tip, a mode
field diameter of 0.6 microns can be provided near the tip of
the fiber.   In comparison, alternative display technologies such
as liquid crystal on silicon and LED are currently limited to a
pixel pitch of about 4-5 microns. GRIN lenses can be fabricated
separately and fused directly to the fiber tip.
      In one embodiment employing multi-core fiber, the multiple
cores may be scanned to produce a well-filled image plane the
image quality of which is not degraded by noticeable gaps in the
image. The quantity of, and spacing between, fiber cores
interacts with the density of the scan pattern. A larger number
of cores can be scanned in a sparser scan pattern     (i.e.,  a large
distance between scan lines) while maintaining a well-filled
                                 18

image. Conversely, a smaller number of cores is preferably
scanned with a denser scan pattern   (i.e.,  a smaller distance
between scan lines) to provide a well-filled image.    In one
embodiment, the cores of the multi-core fiber are tiled in a
hexagonal packing, providing the advantage of minimizing the
distance between a large number of cores    (e.g., Figures 7A, 15A,
and 15B).
      In two waveguides that are very close together, for
instance adjacent cores in multi-core optical fiber, light
transmitted through one core can partially cross-couple to the
adjacent mode through an evanescent mode. Such evanescent mode
behavior can generate crosstalk between the image content being
carried by adjacent cores, if they are positioned very close
together. In a preferred embodiment, the cores are separated by
a minimum distance to minimize crosstalk between fiber cores to
a level not easily detectable by a human observer, to maintain
high image quality. Alternatively or additionally, opaque
material can be incorporated into the cladding between fiber
cores, to reduce crosstalk for more closely spaced fibers.
      It is important to emphasize that though the foregoing
describes two approaches in relative isolation, an array of
multiple scanned fibers and a single scanned multi-core fiber
(containing an array of fiber cores),   these approaches represent
points on a design continuum. In another preferred embodiment,
the approaches are combined, with an array of multiple multi
core fibers being scanned to form a composite high-resolution
image  (e.g., Figure 13). By collecting sets of cores together
within multi-core fibers, the number of moving parts can be
minimized and manufacturing complexity can be reduced.
      In one embodiment, the image relay in the HMD or other
wearable display is a transparent element, superimposing imagery
                                 19

over the direct view of the real world. Compatible HMD viewing
optics include, but are not limited to, refractive systems,
reflective, diffractive, substrate guided optics.
     The technologies described herein facilitate high
resolution, lightweight and unobtrusive HMDs and enable virtual
and augmented reality visual systems for everything from gaming
and personal entertainment systems to workspace collaboration
and real world navigation and information systems and high
performance avionics displays. Preferably, an HMD should be
comfortable, attractive, and virtually indistinguishable from
normal eyewear.
     Referring to Figure 8, an embodiment is depicted wherein
two or more waveguides      (54, 56)   are coupled to, or co-located
within, the same host medium       (58).   Figure  9 illustrates an
embodiment wherein each of two waveguides         (54,  56)  are coupled
to their own independent host medium        (58,  60).   Referring to
Figure 10, when a configuration such as that illustrated in
Figure 8 is controllably moved        (illustrated as a dashed
counterposition 62),     such as by a piezoelectric actuation
element as described above in reference to FSD systems, both
waveguides    (54,  56) move, or scan, together.       Referring to
Figure 11, when two configurations such as that depicted in
Figure 9 are operatively coupled to each other, such as by a
common housing or coupling member, they move, or scan, together
(movement illustrated as dashed counterpositions           62, 64).
Alternatively, referring to Figure 12,        independently actuated
(such as by piezoelectric actuation elements) host medium
platforms    (58, 60) may independently move their intercoupled
waveguides    (54,  56), as shown in Figure 12 with the waveguides
moving  (62,   64)  in opposite directions at the time of the
illustration.      Figure 13 illustrates a configuration analogous
                                     20

to that of Figure 12,   with the exception that each of the
independently actuated host medium / waveguide constructs of
Figure 13 contains more than one waveguides per medium          (e.g., a
multi-core optical fiber) such that different waveguides within
a given host medium   (58, for example) move together, while they
may move completely independently relative to the waveguides
coupled to the other host medium     (60).
      Referring to Figure 14,   a hexagonal-packed (84)
configuration of multicore waveguides      (70, 72,   74,  76,  78,  80,
82) is illustrated.    As described above hexagonal packing may be
preferred for high cross sectional density.       Referring to
Figures 15A and 15B, the individual cores      (86, 88,    90,  92,   94,
96,  98) within a multicore fiber configuration       (70) may also be
hexagonally packed   (78).   The configuration of Figure 15A shows
a group of seven individual cores packed in a hexagonal           (84)
configuration;   the configuration illustrates that any number of
individual cores, such as the depicted plurality         (100),  may be
hexagonally packed   (84) for desired cross sectional density.
      Referring to Figure 16A, a configuration similar to that of
Figure 12 is depicted with emissions      (106, 108)   coming out of
the output ends   (102, 104)  of the waveguides     (54, 56) with
relatively low emission numerical aperture configurations.             To
optimize possible display resolution and/or increase the size of
an eyebox provided to a viewer, the numerical apertures may be
increased by using lenses;     in one embodiment, as illustrated in
Figure 16B, lenses   (114, 116),  such as GRIN lenses       (as described
above),  may be utilized to increase numerical apertures of the
output emissions   (110, 112).
      Various exemplary embodiments of the invention are
described herein. Reference is made to these examples in a non
limiting sense. They are provided to illustrate more broadly
                                  21

applicable aspects of the invention. Various changes may be made
to the invention described and equivalents may be substituted
without departing from the true spirit and scope of the
invention. In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt
a particular situation, material, composition of matter,
process, process act(s) or step(s) to the objective(s),  spirit
or scope of the present invention. Further, as will be
appreciated by those with skill in the art that each of the
individual variations described and illustrated herein has
discrete components and features which may be readily separated
from or combined with the features of any of the other several
embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the
present inventions. All such modifications are intended to be
within the scope of claims associated with this disclosure.
     The invention includes methods that may be performed using
the subject devices. The methods may comprise the act of
providing such a suitable device. Such provision may be
performed by the end user. In other words, the "providing" act
merely requires the end user obtain, access, approach, position,
set-up, activate, power-up or otherwise act to provide the
requisite device in the subject method. Methods recited herein
may be carried out in any order of the recited events which is
logically possible, as well as in the recited order of events.
     Exemplary aspects of the invention, together with details
regarding material selection and manufacture have been set forth
above. As for other details of the present invention, these may
be appreciated in connection with the above-referenced patents
and publications as well as generally known or appreciated by
those with skill in the art. The same may hold true with respect
to method-based aspects of the invention in terms of additional
acts as commonly or logically employed.
                                22

     In addition, though the invention has been described in
reference to several examples optionally incorporating various
features,  the invention is not to be limited to that which is
described or indicated as contemplated with respect to each
variation of the invention. Various changes may be made to the
invention described and equivalents   (whether recited herein or
not included for the sake of some brevity) may be substituted
without departing from the true spirit and scope of the
invention.  In addition, where a range of values is provided, it
is understood that every intervening value, between the upper
and lower limit of that range and any other stated or
intervening value in that stated range, is encompassed within
the invention.
     Also, it is contemplated that any optional feature of the
inventive variations described may be set forth and claimed
independently, or in combination with any one or more of the
features described herein. Reference to a singular item,
includes the possibility that there are plural of the same items
present. More specifically, as used herein and in claims
associated hereto, the singular forms   "a," "an," "said," and
"the" include plural referents unless the specifically stated
otherwise.  In other words, use of the articles allow for  "at
least one" of the subject item in the description above as well
as claims associated with this disclosure. It is further noted
that such claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element.
As such, this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis
for use of such exclusive terminology as "solely,"   "only" and
the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements, or
use of a "negative" limitation.
     Without the use of such exclusive terminology, the term
"comprising" in claims associated with this disclosure shall
                                23

allow for the inclusion of any additional element--irrespective
of whether a given number of elements are enumerated in such
claims,  or the addition of a feature could be regarded as
transforming the nature of an element set forth in such claims.
Except as specifically defined herein, all technical     and
scientific terms used herein are to be given as broad a
commonly understood meaning as possible while maintaining claim
validity.
     The breadth of the present     invention is not to be limited
to the examples provided and/or the subject     specification, but
rather only by the scope of claim language associated with
this disclosure.
     The invention described herein may be manufactured and
used by or for the United States Government for United States
Government purposes without payment of royalties thereon or
therefore.
     The reference in this   specification to any prior
publication   (or information derived from it),   or to any matter
which is  known, is  not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that
prior publication   (or information derived from it)   or known
matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the     field
of endeavour to which this   specification relates.
     Throughout this specification and the claims which
follow, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", and variations such as     "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not
the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
                                 24

The claims defining the present     invention are as follows:
1. A system for scanning electromagnetic imaging radiation,
   comprising:
      a drive electronics system configured to generate at
         least one pixel modulation    signal;
      at  least one electromagnetic radiation source configured
   to modulate light from the at least one electromagnetic
   radiation source based on the at least one pixel modulation
   signal;
      a first waveguide configured to produce a first projected
         field area;  and
      a second waveguide configured to produce a second
         projected field area,
      wherein each of the first waveguide and the second
   waveguide is   operatively coupled to the at least one
   electromagnetic radiation source,     and
      wherein the drive electronics system is configured to
   luminance modulate at least one of the first waveguide or
   second waveguide concurrent with the first projected field
   area sharing an overlapping area with the second projected
   field area.
2.    The system of claim 1, wherein the luminance in the
overlapping area is equal to a luminance of the first or
second projected field area outside the overlapping area.
3.    The system of either claim 1, wherein at least of the one
of the first   or second waveguides comprises an optical fiber.
4.    The system of claim 2, wherein the optical fiber
comprises a cladding and at least one core.
                                 25

5.   The system of claim 3, wherein the optical fiber
comprises two or more cores  occupying the same cladding.
6.   The system of claim 2, wherein the optical fiber is a
single-mode optical fiber.
7.   The system of claim 2, wherein the optical fiber is a
multi-mode optical  fiber.
8.   The system of claim 2, wherein the optical fiber is a
step-index optical fiber.
9.   The system of claim 2, wherein the optical  fiber is a
graded-index optical fiber.
10.  The system of claim 2, wherein the optical  fiber is a
photonic crystal optical fiber.
11.  The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source produces electromagnetic
radiation having a wavelength in the ultraviolet to infrared
range.
12.  The system of claim 11,  wherein the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source produces visible light
electromagnetic radiation.
13.    The system of claim 1, wherein both the first and second
waveguides are co-located within the same host medium.
14.  The system of claim 1,  further comprising a scanning
actuator operatively coupled to at  least one of the first  and
second waveguides and configured to physically displace   said
at least one of the first and second waveguides.
                                26

15.   The system of claim 14,  wherein the scanning actuator
comprises a piezoelectric actuation element.
16.   The system of claim 14,  wherein the scanning actuator is
coupled to both of the first and second waveguides and
configured to physically displace them together.
17.   The system of claim 14,  wherein a first scanning actuator
is  coupled to the first waveguide, and wherein a second
scanning actuator is coupled to the second waveguide, such
that the first and second waveguides may be actuated
independently.
18.   The system of claim 1,  further comprising a first
scanning actuator operatively coupled to and configured to
physically displace the first waveguide along with at least
one other intercoupled waveguide, and a second scanning
actuator operatively coupled to and configured to physically
displace the second waveguide, the second waveguide being
intercoupled with the  first.
19.   The system of claim 18,  wherein the first waveguide and
at least one other intercoupled waveguide comprise a single
multicore fiber.
20.   The system of claim 1, wherein the output from the first
and second waveguides is passed to a scanning element
configured to scan said output along the one or more axes.
21.   The system of claim 20,  wherein the scanning element is
selected from the group consisting of:   a MEMS mirror scanner,
a deformable membrane mirror, a scanning prism, and a scanning
lens.
                                 27

22.  The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source comprises two independent
electromagnetic radiation sources, a first electromagnetic
radiation source operatively coupled to the first waveguide,
and a second electromagnetic radiation source operatively
coupled to the second waveguide.
23.  The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source comprises a composite source
configured to inject a plurality of wavelengths of radiation
into at least one of the first or second waveguides.
24.  The system of claim 23, wherein the composite source is
configured to inject red, green, and blue visible light
radiation wavelengths.
25.  The system of claim 23, wherein the composite source
comprises a plurality of individual sources  operatively
coupled together with a combiner.
26.  The system of claim 25, wherein the combiner comprises a
wavelength division multiplexer.
27.  The system of claim 1, wherein the at  least one
electromagnetic radiation source comprises a directly
modulatable emitter.
28.  The system of claim 27, wherein the directly-modulatable
emitter is a diode laser.
29.  The system of claim 27, wherein the directly-modulatable
emitter is a light-emitting diode.
                               28

30.  The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one
electromagnetic radiation source comprises an emitter
operatively coupled to a modulator.
31.  The system of claim 30,  wherein the modulator is  an
interferometric modulator.
32.  The system of claim 31,  wherein the interferometric
modulator is a Mach-Zehnder  interferometric modulator.
33.  The system of claim 30,  wherein the modulator is  an
acousto-optical modulator.
34.  The system of claim 30,  wherein the modulator is  a
shutter.
35.  The system of claim 1, wherein the output from the first
and second waveguides is scanned in a spiral scan pattern.
36.  The system of claim 1, wherein the image at   an image
plane has a diameter that is  larger than the combined first
and second projected field areas   of the first and second
waveguides.
37.  The system of claim 1,  further comprising a plurality of
additional waveguides, the first,   second, and plurality of
additional waveguides being arranged in a hexagonally-packed
array configuration.
38.  The system of claim 37, wherein projected field areas
associated with the outputs of each of the first, second, and
plurality of additional waveguides are overlapped by a minimum
amount determined by a common intersection of three equal
circles.
                                29

39.  The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one core
comprises two or more cores,  and wherein the two or more cores
are arranged in a hexagonally-packed array configuration.
40.  The system of claim 3,  further comprising first and
second lenses coupled to the first and second waveguides such
that imaging radiation transmitted through the first  and
second waveguides is passed through the first and second
lenses before being output to generate the portion of the
image.
41.  The system of claim 40,  wherein the first and second
lenses are gradient index lenses.
42.  The system of claim 40,  wherein the first and second
lenses are refractive lenses.
                               30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
