ABSTRACT
A lockout device for locking a valve in a closed position. The device is intended for use
with a valve of the type having a valve body configured to be mounted inline in a pipe; a
sealing element rotatable through 90 degrees to selectively allow or prevent fluid to
pass through the valve body; a valve shaft projecting from the sealing element and
passing through an external wall of the valve body; and a user operable handle,
comprising an elongated lever or T-shaped member, secured to the valve shaft and
projecting laterally from the shaft, the handle being rotatable between an open position
in which the lever or T-shaped member extends along the pipe, and a closed position in
which the lever or T-shaped member extends laterally to the pipe. The lockout device
comprises first and second housing components which are configured to be secured
together and at least partially surround the valve body. The first and/or second housing
component includes an opening which is shaped, sized and positioned to allow the
handle of the valve to pass through the opening when the handle is in the closed
position and prevent the handle being rotated when the first and second housing
components are secured together.

                                               1
                                VALVE LOCKOUT DEVICE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to a lockout device for locking a valve in
a closed position. The lockout device is particularly suitable for use in locking ball
valves of the type used for supplying gas to residential or commercial premises,
and it will be convenient to describe the invention in relation to that example
application. It should be understood however that the lockout device is capable
of broader application and use.
[0002]       Like all utility service providers, gas distribution companies occasional
experience difficulty obtaining payment from customers. If payment remains
outstanding for an unacceptable period after the due date, the distribution
company may disconnect the gas supply to the premises. This process involves
a physical separation of the main gas supply pipe to the gas meter located at the
premises. The supply pipe is then sealed with a bung to prevent gas flow.
[0003]       Reconnection of the gas supply to the premises then requires the bung
to be removed and the mains gas supply pipe to be securely reconnected to the
gas meter. Given the dangers involved in this type of activity, only qualified gas
fitters are allowed to make such reconnections, thus leading to possible delays in
reconnection if a qualified gas fitter is not immediately available.
[0004]       Gas meters are also often installed in awkward positions, potentially in
a garden bed adjacent a building, making access to the gas meter and supply
pipe difficult for the gas fitter.
[0005]      With these issues in mind, it would be desirable to provide a quicker
and simpler way to "disconnect" and "reconnect" a mains gas supply to a
premises.

                                            2
[0006]       Gas meters are typically connected to the mains supply line via
isolation valves. Such valves are installed so that, in the event the gas meter
needs to be replaced or there is a gas leak within the premises, the gas supply
can be quickly turned off. The isolation valve is typically a quarter-turn ball valve
having a user operable handle in the form of an elongated lever or T-shaped
member.
[0007]       Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings shows a typical gas meter 1
(shown on a test bench rather than installed at a premises) having an isolation
valve in the form of a ball valve 2 installed in a vertical pipe 6 on the inlet side of
the gas meter. The ball valve 2 has a user operable handle in the form of a lever
3. For illustration purposes, the meter 1 also includes a second isolation valve in
the form of a ball valve 4 installed in a second pipe on the outlet side of the meter.
This ball valve 4 has a user operable handle in the form of a T-shaped member 5.
[0008]       In both valves 2, 4 the handle serves to rotate a sealing element (not
shown) within the valve body 7, through an angle of 90 degrees, to selectively
allow or prevent fluid (in this instance gas) to pass through the valve body 7.
Both valves 2, 4 are shown in Figure 1 in their closed position, wherein the lever 3
or T-shaped member 5 extends laterally to the pipe 6 in which the valve is
installed. The valves are moved to an open position by rotating the lever 3 or T
shaped handle member 5 so as to align with and extend along the pipe 6 (that is,
vertically in this installation).
[0009]       It should be noted that the two valves 2, 4 are mounted to the same
meter 1 merely for convenience to demonstrate the types of isolation valves to
which the lockout device of the present invention may be applied. In a typical
installation, a single isolation valve would be installed on the inlet side of the gas
meter and no isolation valve would be provided on the outlet side. As such, the
two valves 2, 4 shown in Figure 1 merely illustrate the two most common
alternative valves used for gas isolation.

                                           3
[0010]      Figure 2 also shows a close up view of the ball valve 2 shown in Figure
1, having a user operable handle in the form of an elongated lever 3, and Figure 3
shows a close up view of the ball valve 4 shown in Figure 1, having a user
operable handle in the form of a T-shaped member 5.
[0011]      Isolation valves of the types described above are installed for
convenience and safety during maintenance operations but do not enable the gas
distribution company to "disconnect" the gas supply from the premises. The
customer could simply turn the valve back on to "reconnect" the gas supply. The
problem is preventing this unauthorised operation of the isolation valve by the
customer, and any other unauthorised person. The present invention is directed
to addressing this problem.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]      With the foregoing problem in mind, the present invention provides a
lockout device for locking a valve in a closed position, the valve being of a type
having:
            a valve body configured to be mounted inline in a pipe;
            a sealing element rotatable through 90 degrees to selectively allow or
prevent fluid to pass through the valve body;
            a valve shaft projecting from the sealing element and passing through
an external wall of the valve body; and
            a user operable handle, comprising an elongated lever or T-shaped
member, secured to the valve shaft and projecting laterally from the shaft, the
handle being rotatable between an open position in which the lever or T-shaped
member extends along the pipe, and a closed position in which the lever or T
shaped member extends laterally to the pipe,
            the lockout device comprising first and second housing components
which are configured to be secured together and at least partially surround the
valve body, the first and/or second housing component including an opening
which is shaped, sized and positioned to allow the handle of the valve to pass
through the opening when the handle is in the closed position and prevent the

                                            4
handle being rotated when the first and second housing components are secured
together.
[0013]     In one embodiment, the first and second housing components include:
           a tongue and slit arrangement, located on one side of the valve body,
to enable the housing components to be joined together; and
           at least one pair of apertures, located on the other side of the valve
body, with one aperture of the pair being provided in each housing component,
and the pair of apertures being positioned to enable a shackle of a padlock to
pass through the pair of apertures and thereby lock the housing components
together.
[0014]     Preferably, a plurality of pairs of apertures is provided to enable the
shackle of the padlock to be positioned such that the housing of the lockout
device is held securely around the valve body.
[0015]     In one embodiment, the first and second housing components form a
substantially rectangular housing having a front wall corresponding to the wall of
the valve body from which the valve shaft projects, and two opposing side walls
extending rearward from the front wall. In this embodiment the tongue and slit
arrangement is preferably located adjacent the front wall and the pair of apertures
for the padlock shackle is located at a rear portion of opposing side walls.
[0016]     In one embodiment, the first and second housing components
comprise sheet metal material which has been bent to shape. Preferably, the first
housing component forms the front and one side wall and the second housing
component forms the second side wall. In this embodiment, the first housing
component includes at least one slit in the front wall and the second housing
component includes at least one corresponding tongue extending outwardly from
the side wall. These tongue(s) and slit(s) may then be interconnected to join the
housing components together.

                                            5
[0017]       In one embodiment, the opening for the handle is provided in the form
of a slot in the front wall of the housing. The handle, whether it is an elongated
lever or a T-shaped member, is then captured within the slot. Preferably, the slot
is sized according to the size of handle so that the handle cannot be rotated to
cause gas to flow through the valve.
[0018]       Preferably, the opening for the handle is in the form of a slot which
extends across the front wall and into each side wall such that a handle in the
form of a T-shaped member is captured within the slot in the front and side walls.
[0019]       More preferably, the opening for the handle is in the form of a stepped
slot, the slot being wider at one end, corresponding to a width of a lever handle,
compared to the other end, corresponding to a width of a T-shaped handle
member. Using this stepped-slot form of opening, the same lockout device may
be suitable for use with either handle type.
[0020]       In one embodiment, the lockout device includes a pair of spacers on
an internal surface of the front wall of the housing, and the spacers are preferably
configured to support the housing of the lockout device relative to the valve body.
[0021]       Preferably, the spacers are provided in the form of tabs which project
inwardly from the front wall of the housing towards the valve body, with one tab
being located above the valve body and the other tab being located below the
valve body when the valve is mounted in a pipe with a vertical orientation. In this
arrangement the housing may be retained at a fixed vertical position, as well as a
fixed horizontal position, with respect to the valve body.
[0022]       To assist the further understanding of the invention, reference will now
be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred embodiment
of the valve lockout device. It is to be appreciated that this embodiment is given
by way of illustration only and the invention is not to be limited by this illustration.

                                          6
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0023]     Figure 1 shows a typical prior art gas meter to which two commonly
available gas isolation valves are connected;
[0024]     Figure 2 shows a typical isolation valve in the form of a ball valve
having a lever handle;
[0025]     Figure 3 shows a typical isolation valve in the form of a ball valve
having a handle in the form of a T-shaped member;
[0026]     Figure 4 shows a valve lockout device in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention used on a ball valve having a lever handle;
[0027]     Figure 5 shows the valve lockout device shown in Figure 4 but now
used on a ball valve having a T-shaped handle;
[0028]     Figure 6 shows a front right perspective view of the valve lockout
device shown in Figures 4 and 5;
[0029]     Figure 7 shows a front left perspective view of the valve lockout device
shown in Figure 6;
[0030]     Figure 8 shows a rear perspective view of housing components of the
valve lockout device shown in Figures 4 to 7;
[0031]     Figure 9 shows the housing components of the lockout device shown
in Figure 8 partially assembled;
[0032]     Figure 10 shows a rear right perspective view of the assembled
housing components of the valve lockout device;

                                             7
[0033]      Figure 11 shows a rear left perspective view of the assembled valve
lockout device shown in Figure 10;
[0034]      Figures 12 and 13 show a valve lockout device according to an
embodiment of the invention installed on a lever type ball valve together with a
padlock to secure the lockout device on the valve.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0035]      Referring initially to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, there is
shown a prior art gas meter 1 of the type used in domestic installations. The gas
meter 1 has an isolation valve 2 mounted inline, in a pipe 6, leading to the inlet
side of the gas meter 1. In the photograph of Figure 1 the gas meter 1 is merely
sitting on a bench but, in use, it would be installed adjacent a building, and a gas
inlet pipe would be connected to the lower end of the isolation valve 2. This
would be a typical arrangement, with the valve body 7 mounted in a vertical pipe
6 leading from the gas main distribution system, below ground, to the gas meter.
[0036]      In the embodiment shown, the isolation valve 2 has a valve body 7
which is coupled to the pipe 6 by means of threaded couplings 8. Inside the valve
2 is a sealing element (not shown) which is rotatable through 90 degrees to
selectively allow or prevent gas flow through the valve body 2. A valve shaft 9
projects from the sealing element and passes through an external wall of the
valve body 7. A user operable handle, in this embodiment being an elongated
lever 3, is secured to the valve shaft 9 and projects laterally from the shaft 9. The
handle in Figure 1 is shown in the closed position but it is rotatable between an
open position, in which the lever 3 would extend along the pipe 6, and the closed
position, in which the lever extends laterally to the pipe 6, as shown.
[0037]      Figure 1 also shows, on the outlet side of the gas meter 1, an
alternative isolation valve 4 which includes a user operable handle in the form of
a T-shaped member 5. All other components of the valve 4 are the same or

                                           8
similar to corresponding components of the valve 2, and the same reference
numerals have been used to denote equivalent components.
[0038]      Turning now to Figures 4 and 5, there is shown a valve lockout device
10 in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the invention. Figure 4 shows
the device 10 secured to the ball valve 2 of Figure 1 having a lever type handle 3
whereas Figure 5 shows the device 10 secured to the ball valve 4 of Figure 1
having a T-shaped handle 5. The device 10 is the same in Figures 4 and 5 as
this particular embodiment of the device is structured to cooperate with either
type of ball valve.
[0039]      Figures 6 to 11 of the drawings show the valve lockout device 10
separately from the valves 2, 4 so that various components and structure of the
lockout device can be more easily seen.
[0040]      Overall, the lockout device 10 comprises a first housing component 11
and a second housing component 12. Each housing component 11, 12 is made
of galvanised sheet metal with a thickness of about 2 mm. However, other
materials, and other thicknesses of material, could instead be used.
[0041]      As can be best seen by inspecting the succession of Figures 8 to 11,
the first housing component 11 and second housing component 12 are configured
to be secured together to at least partially surround the valve body, as shown in
Figures 4 and 5 in an in-use condition. For this purpose, the first housing
component includes two slits 13,14 positioned to cooperate with two
corresponding tongues 15,16 projecting outwardly from a forward end region of
the second housing component 12 (see especially Figure 8). More particularly,
the tongues 15, 16 are inserted into the slots 13, 14 by positioning the second
housing component 12 at an angle with respect to the first housing component
11, as shown in Figure 9. Once inserted, the second housing component 12 can
be pivoted about the slits in the first housing component 11 until the second
housing component 12 is in its final position as shown in Figures 10 and 11.

                                           9
[0042]      It should be noted that the length of the tongues 15, 16 shown in the
figures is actually greater than the minimum required and they can be, and
preferably are, made slightly shorter, as in the slightly modified embodiment of
the lockout device shown in Figures 12 and 13.
[0043]      As can also be seen in the various figures, the first and second
housing components 11, 12 form a substantially rectangular housing having a
front wall 17 and two side walls 18,19. In this embodiment, the first housing
component 11 is made of sheet metal which is bent at 90 degrees so as to form
the front wall 17 and first side wall 18. The second housing component is also
made of sheet metal and forms the second side wall 19.
[0044]      To hold the two side walls together, at least one pair of apertures 20,
20' are provided to enable the shackle of a padlock, or similar lockable device, to
pass through the pair of apertures 20, 20' and thereby lock the housing
components 11, 12 together. This arrangement is shown in Figures 12 and 13.
Although a single pair of apertures may be sufficient, a series of apertures are
preferably provided in the side walls 18, 19 of the first and second housing
components 11, 12 so that the padlock may be placed through the most
appropriate pair of apertures to enable the housing of the device to be securely
and rigidly positioned relative to the valve body 7.
[0045]      Referring again to Figures 4 and 5, it can be seen that the first housing
component 11 includes an opening 21 in its front wall 17 to enable the lever
handle 3 (Figure 4) or T-shaped handle 5 (Figure 5) to project through the
opening. The opening 21 is shaped, sized and positioned to allow the handle 3, 5
to pass through the opening when the handle is in the closed position. The
opening is also shaped and sized to prevent the handle 3, 5 being rotated when
the first and second housing components 11,12 are secured together (note that
the padlock of Figures 11 and 12 is not actually shown in Figures 4 and 5 but
would be in an actual installation).

                                            10
[0046]       More specific details of the opening 21 can be seen in Figures 6 to 11
of the drawings. More specifically, it can be seen that the opening 21 is generally
in the form of an elongated slot in the front wall 17 of the housing. In this
embodiment, the slot extends across the width of the front wall 17 and into each
side wall 18, 19 (best seen in Figures 6 and 8). To enable the lockout device to
be used with valves having a lever type handle or a T-shaped handle, the
aperture 21 is formed as a stepped slot, being wider at one end than at the other.
The dimensions of the respective portions of the stepped slot are selected to
correspond with the width of the lever 3 of valve 2 and the thickness of the T
shaped handle 5 of the valve 4. Ideally, the opening would provide a snug fit
around the handle 3, 5 so that, once the lockout device 10 is installed, it would be
impossible to move either handle 3, 5 to any sufficient degree which might allow
gas to flow through the valve. Valves typically in use for gas isolation purposes
generally conform to the two types shown in Figure 1 so the dimensions should
be selected to correspond to these two valve types. It should be understood,
however, that any alternative dimensions could be used according to the
particular types of valves used in a specific country or geographical region of a
country.
[0047]       Referring specifically to Figure 8, it can be seen that the opening 21 is
in part formed by a stepped slot 22 in the first housing component 11, and in part
formed by a notch 23 in the second housing component 12. The stepped slot 22
in the first housing component includes a wider portion 24, having a width of
about 18mm, and a narrower portion 25, having a width of about 8mm. The
narrower portion 25 extends from the front wall 17 of the first housing component
 11 around to the side wall 18 (also see Figure 6). This stepped shape enables
the housing of the lockout device to work with either handle type.
[0048]       To enable the housing of the lockout device to be correctly positioned
with respect to the valve body 7, a pair of spacers 26, 26' is provided on an
internal surface of the front wall 17 of the first housing component 11. In the
embodiment shown, the spacers are provided in the form of metal tabs which are
welded to the metal surface of the front wall 17 and project inwardly towards the

                                             11
valve body 7. The spacers are preferably positioned and sized to engage the
upper and lower ends of the valve body 7, adjacent the couplings 8, to thereby
prevent movement of the housing with respect to the valve 2, 4 and pipe 6 in
which it is installed.
[0049]       It will be appreciated that the valve lockout device of the present
invention provides significant advantages because it enables gas supply to a
premises to be "disconnected" without physically disconnecting the gas supply
pipe from the isolation valve or gas meter. Instead, the isolation valve is turned to
the closed position and then locked in that position by placing the lockout device
around the valve body and securely fixing it in place with a padlock. When the
gas is to be reconnected, a suitably authorised person, having a key to the
padlock, can "reconnect" the gas supply by removing the lockout device and
returning the valve handle to the open position. It is of course possible that a
customer might cut the padlock so as to resume their gas supply but doing this
would be readily apparent and the customer could then be charged for any
additional gas used.
[0050]      The lockout device of the present invention enables a quick and
convenient gas "connection" and "disconnection" service to be provided without
requiring a licensed gas fitter to physically disconnect and reconnect the gas
mains pipe. This process is therefore far safer, quicker and more convenient than
the present process.
[0051]      Although a preferred embodiment of the invention has been described
herein in detail, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that variations may
be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention or the scope of
the appended claims.

                                           12
CLAIMS:
1.      A lockout device for locking a valve in a closed position, the valve being of
a type having:
        a valve body configured to be mounted inline in a pipe;
        a sealing element rotatable through 90 degrees to selectively allow or
prevent fluid to pass through the valve body;
        a valve shaft projecting from the sealing element and passing through an
external wall of the valve body; and
        a user operable handle, comprising an elongated lever or T-shaped
member, secured to the valve shaft and projecting laterally from the shaft, the
handle being rotatable between an open position in which the lever or T-shaped
member extends along the pipe, and a closed position in which the lever or T
shaped member extends laterally to the pipe,
        the lockout device comprising first and second housing components which
are configured to be secured together and at least partially surround the valve
body,
        the first and/or second housing component including an opening which is
shaped, sized and positioned to allow the handle of the valve to pass through the
opening when the handle is in the closed position and prevent the handle being
rotated when the first and second housing components are secured together.
2.      The lockout device of claim 1 wherein the first and second housing
components include:
        a tongue and slit arrangement, located on one side of the valve body, to
enable the housing components to be joined together; and
        at least one pair of apertures, located on the other side of the valve body,
with one aperture of the pair being provided in each housing component, and the
pair of apertures being positioned to enable a shackle of a padlock to pass
through the pair of apertures and thereby lock the housing components together.
3.      The lockout device of claim 2 wherein the first and second housing
components form a substantially rectangular housing having a front wall

                                             13
corresponding to the wall of the valve body from which the valve shaft projects,
and two opposing side walls extending rearward from the front wall, and wherein
the tongue and slit arrangement is located adjacent the front wall and the pair of
apertures for the padlock shackle is located at a rear portion of opposing side
walls.
4.      The lockout device of claim 3 wherein the first and second housing
components comprise sheet metal material which has been bent to shape, with
the first housing component forming the front and one side wall and the second
housing component forming the second side wall, and wherein the first housing
component includes at least on slit in the front wall and the second housing
component includes at least one corresponding tongue extending outwardly from
the side wall, whereby interconnecting the tongue(s) and slit(s) joins the housing
components together.
5.      The lockout device of claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the opening for the handle
is in the form of a slot in the front wall of the housing and the handle, in the form
of either an elongated lever or T-shaped member, is captured within the slot.
6.      The lockout device of claim 5 wherein the opening for the handle is in the
form of a slot which extends across the front wall and into each side wall such
that a handle in the form of a T-shaped member is captured within the slot in the
front and side walls.
7.      The lockout device of claim 6 wherein the opening for the handle is in the
form of a stepped slot, the slot being wider at one end, corresponding to a width
of a lever handle, compared to the other end, corresponding to a width of a T
shaped handle member, such that the lockout device is suitable for use with
either handle type.

                                          14
8.     The lockout device of any one of claims 3 to 7 wherein a pair of spacers is
provided on an internal surface of the front wall of the housing, the spacers being
configured to support the housing of the lockout device relative to the valve body.
9.     The lockout device of claim 8 wherein the spacers are provided in the form
of tabs which project inwardly from the front wall of the housing towards the valve
body, with one tab being located above the valve body and the other tab being
located below the valve body when the valve is mounted in a pipe with a vertical
orientation, such that the housing is retained at a fixed vertical position with
respect to the valve body.
                 SKILLTECH CONSULTING SERVICES PTY LTD
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P42442AUP1

                           <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                  6
                                  5
    8
                                  8
                       7
        7                         4
                                                        1/13
                                      5
1
            Figure 1

           <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
           3
               2
                        8         6
                                          2/13
Figure 2

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                              3/13
Figure 3
                                   6
           5   4         8

                                     4/13
<removed-date>
                              6
<removed-apn>
                              12    8
                         19
              13
                   15
                    21
                         16
                   3                               18
                                   14
                                              11
                       10
                                        17
                                   Figure 4

                                5/13
<removed-date>
                                         6
<removed-apn>
                   12                    8
                                             11
                   19                         18
              15    13
                                                   10
                    21
                                              5
                   16
                         14
                               17
                              Figure 5

                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                19                     20'
                                       12
                                                   20
15
      13
                                                                 6/13
16
                     24     22               11
                                 25
     14
           17
                                       18
                 Figure 6

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                            7/13
12
                      11
     19
                 17
      Figure 7

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13
                                          21
25              24
     22         13
                13              14   12
                                                                     8/13
                                                       20'
          26'    16
                 23
          11          15
                     Figure 8

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           9/13
26'
           12
      11
Figure 9

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      12
26
                                                 10/13
     11
          Figure 10

                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       26
    20
                                              15
                                                           11/13
1
                                       16
              20'
         12
                    Figure 11

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       12/13
Figure 12

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       13/13
Figure 13

