                                          ABSTRACT
            A method and device for gaming, in which a primary game
 5  (21) is played toward a winning outcome, and in which a
   secondary game          (30) is played concurrently with the primary game
    (21),    using outcomes on the primary game           (21) to determine the
   outcome of the secondary game             (30).  The secondary game         (30) is
   entirely     different       from the primary game      (21),  and play
10 continues on the            secondary game    (30)  through   successive
   primary games          (21).  The player may increase the chances of
   winning the secondary game            (30) by either increasing the wager,
   which increases the total number of outcomes that apply to the
   secondary game          (30),   or by choosing a variation of the secondary
15 game     (30) that has more winning outcomes possible
                                                                     9642720_1(GHMattes) P88225.AU.3

                                    1
                       Gaming Device and Method
   Technical Field
         The following invention is generally related to
   instrumentalities and methodologies in gaming devices. More
 5 specifically, the instant invention is directed to a gaming
   device having a primary game and a secondary game, with the play
   of the secondary game dependent on the outcome of the primary
   game.  Play of the secondary game continues  over successive
   gaming sessions of the primary game until the player wins or
10 until the player chooses a different version of the secondary
   game. The primary game contains indicia of various types that
   affect the secondary game differently. Most specifically, the
   instant invention is directed to a gaming device in which the
   chances of achieving a desired outcome, with respect to the
15 secondary game, may be maximized by a player. This is
   accomplished by either choosing a secondary game with greater
   chances of winning, and/or by increasing the wager, which puts
   more indicia into play on the primary game.
   Background Art
20       The primary purpose of playing any game is to win the
   game. While a player may initially find enjoyment in trying to
   win a particular game, tedium sets in if no further stimulus is
   offered to entertain the player. Accordingly, several games
   have 20 been developed that offer a "bonus" game for
25 attaining a particular outcome, allowing the player the
   prospect of engaging in a different gaming proposition.
   Generally, such bonus games are enabled by a "triggering"
   outcome. When the triggering outcome appears, a secondary game
   screen appears, and the secondary game is played independently
30 of the primary game. When the secondary game ends, the player
   returns to the primary game, with no further incentive to
   continue play, except for the prospect of another chance at the
   bonus game. Secondary games are usually not triggered very
   often;  even if the player enjoys playing the secondary game,
                                                       9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                    2
   there are not many chances to do so. Additionally, most
   games,   whether primary  or secondary, do not allow a player                to
   control any aspects of the game, except in the case of enabling
   several paylines by making additional wagers. These factors,
 5 embodying much passivity,   combine to produce stagnation,              in
   which the player succumbs to a short attention span, and ends
   the gaming session.
   Summary of the Invention
          According to a first aspect of the invention, there is
10 provided a gaming machine comprising a game controller
   arranged to:
         allow a player to stake a wager on a game outcome in
   which the gaming machine randomly selects a plurality of
   symbols from a predefined set of symbols;
15       allow a player to selectively enable at least one first
   special symbol in the set of symbols;    and
          use the first special symbol in a second game only if:
   the first special symbol forms part of the plurality of
   symbols that are randomly selected from the predefined set of
20 symbols; and the first special symbol was enabled by the
   player.
          According to a second aspect of the invention, there is
   provided a method for use with a gaming machine, the method
   comprising the steps of:
25        allowing a player to stake a wager on a game outcome in
   which the gaming machine randomly selects a plurality of
   symbols from a predefined set of symbols;
          allowing a player to selectively enable at least one
   first special symbol in the set of symbols;    and
30        using the first special symbol in a second game only if:
   the first special symbol forms part of the plurality of
   symbols that are randomly selected from the predefined set of
                                                        9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                     3
   symbols; and the first special symbol was enabled by the
   player.
          Further aspects of the invention and embodiments of the
   aspects described in the preceding paragraphs will be
 5 apparent from the following description and/or from the
   accompanying drawings.
         The present invention relates to a new and novel device
   and method for gaming, in which a player has the opportunity
   to play a secondary game.
10        In addition, a device and method is also described,
   which provides a player with the prospect of engaging in
   different types of gaming propositions concurrently in one
   gaming session.
          In addition, a device and method is described, in which
15 play of a secondary game     spans several successive sessions of
   the primary game.
         In addition, a device and method is described, which
   offers   a player the opportunity to increase the chance of
   winning by allowing the player to choose which secondary game is
20 played.
         In addition, a device and method is described to allow the
   player to increase   the chance of winning by placing additional
   wagers, which affect the total number of favourable     outcomes in
   the secondary game.
25       In addition, a device   for gaming is described, comprising,
   in combination a display, a wagering means, and a processor
   operatively coupled to said display and activated by said
   wagering means, said display when enabled including a plurality
   of indicia having means   for bestowing credits,  said indicia
30 categorized into classes, each said class having differing said
   credit-bestowing means associated with said class.
          In addition, a method for gaming is described, the steps
   including receiving a wager, enabling a display upon receipt of
   the wager, providing a plurality of indicia,    categorizing the
                                                         9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                      4
   indicia as a function of   classes, and bestowing on the classes
   different attributes leading to credits, whereupon during play
   the classes affect  outcome.
   Brief Description Of The Drawings
 5       Figure 1 is a flowchart of the methodology according to
   the present  invention.
         Figure 2 is a depiction of the apparatus associated
   therewith.
         Figure 3 is a depiction of the display of Figure 2,
10 depicting a primary row and column      (RXC) matrix located above a
   plurality of randomly-numbered positions in a secondary row and
   column  (RXC) matrix.
   Best Mode(s) for Carrying Out the Invention
         Considering the drawings, wherein like reference numerals
15 denote like parts throughout the various drawing figures,
   reference numeral  10 as shown in FIG. 2 is directed to the
   device according to the present    invention.
          In its essence,  the device   10 includes a housing 16 which
   supports a visual display 2, preferably a video monitor,
20 therewithin. The display 2 may include a window      8 for special
   messages or for incrementing counting of credits accumulated by
   the player.
          The device also includes an LED or other readout 4 for
   prompting the player and can provide      similar verbiage as the
25 window 8 or in lieu thereof, to stimulate the player.
         The device includes an inlet     6 for the reception therein
   for coins, currency or the like to auger in the inception of
   play. A plurality of decision-making buttons        12 are located
   on the face of the apparatus 10,       preferable below the display
30 2, and a pull handle 14 can be used to initiate play as an
   alternative to supplement the decision-making buttons 12. A
   coin hopper 18 or other payment methods, i.e.,        ticket
   printers, may be included to effectuate an output of an award
                                                           9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                     5
   due the player. The device 10 may have a top portion 32 with
   a display thereon having a motif correlative with the game to
   be played and can include a paytable. A plurality of speakers
   34 may be included on the device for aural interaction with
 5 the player. The apparatus also includes a processor P
   coordinating all functions and a random number generator G
   operatively coupled thereto for generating outcomes.             A card
   9, having a read/write instrumentality 17 thereon, can be
   read via input 7 as a substitute for or supplement to credit
10 transfers as well as player identification.
        More specifically, and with reference to FIG. 3, greater
   details with respect to the video display 2 can be explored.
   The display 2 features a plurality of symbols 20 arranged in
   a primary row and column    (RXC) matrix 21,  corresponding to a
15 primary game. Paylines 22 correspond to areas on the primary
   matrix 21 in which winning combinations may be located. The
   primary game is preferably a reel-type game, well known in
   the art, with multiple paylines, displaying three rows on
   five reels  (a 3X5 matrix).   Winning on the primary game
20 involves aligning symbols on a payline 22 recognized in a
   paytable  (e.g. three cherries).    Below the primary matrix 21,
   the display 2 features a plurality of randomly-numbered
   positions 33 in a secondary row and column     (RXC) matrix 30.
   Numbers for play by the device are randomly generated for
25 play on the matrix 30. Preferably, the matrix defines a 5X5
   array, correlative of BINGO, and above row one depicts the
   letters  "BINGO," defining with positions 33 an alphanumeric
   display. Also located on the display 2, preferably in a lower
   corner, a BINGO game-type indicator 35 displays the variation
30 of BINGO currently in play.
        Referring to FIG. 1, the flow chart associated with the
   apparatus of FIGS. 2 and 3 can be explored. Initially, the
   display is as shown in FIG. 2, with a primary game matrix 21
   positioned above a secondary game matrix 30.     Initially, a
35 player makes a wager to initialize the game. If the previous
   secondary game ended because of a winning outcome, or if the
                                                        9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                   6
   player so desires, a BINGO game with a different winning
   outcome is chosen at this time. Choosing a variation with a
   lower probability of success may result in a larger award to
   the player. Preferably, the variations of the secondary game
 5 include, but are not limited to, BINGO outcomes such as five
   in-a-row any way, any vertical row, any horizontal row, four
   corners, any postage stamp (block of four),    any kite
    (diagonal five with block of four at one corner),     small or
   large diamonds, small or large picture frames, a plus sign,
10 letter  T, letter X,  letter L, letter N,  and covering the
   entire card.
         In addition to indicia that produce winning outcomes on
   the primary game matrix 21, the primary game also contains
   secondary indicia 24 that only relate to the secondary game.
15 The secondary game is played on the secondary game matrix 30.
   Each secondary indicium may reveal a value correlative of a
   possible value on the secondary game matrix 30.    Initially,
   however, BINGO ball indicia 24 need to be "enabled" prior to
   exposing their face value   (i.e. 124).  Indicia that are
20 "enabled" animate after appearing on the primary game matrix
   21,  spinning 1800 to reveal a numeric or alphanumeric value.
   For example, secondary indicia 24 shown in FIG. 3 reveals B1,
   125, N37 and G59. Only G59 matches a corresponding value on
   matrix 30.  If indicia appear that are not "enabled,"          a
25 message appears, instructing the player to deposit additional
   wagers to enable more indicia, and play continues. In the
   preferred embodiment, the secondary indicia are of two types,
   "red" and "blue" BINGO balls.    The  "red" secondary indicia
   are always enabled, that is, they always display values for
30 possible matching on the secondary game matrix 30. The "blue"
   secondary indicia are only enabled, or will only display such
   values, if a supplemental   (maximum) wager is employed. A
   subset of "blue"   (or other color) indicia may also be enabled
   for intermediate-level wagers.
35       If the value displayed on the "enabled" secondary
   indicium matches a position 33 on the secondary game matrix
                                                       9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                  7
   30, the indicium, or ball, travels from the primary game
   matrix 21 to the corresponding position 33 on the secondary
   game matrix 30,  and that corresponding position 33 appears
   marked, or "covered,"  preferably in green. Additionally, the
 5 indicium, or ball, takes on a green "halo" to indicate that
   its value has already been matched on the secondary game
   matrix 30. As mentioned, the player engages in a gaming
   proposition on the primary game matrix 21 for which rewards
   are given for specific outcomes according to a paytable. As
10 the player continues play on the primary game, e.g.,          by
   making additional wagers, any values on enabled secondary
   game indicia that appear are applied to the same secondary
   game. Play of the particular secondary game continues in this
   manner until a winning outcome appears on the secondary game
15 matrix 30 or until the player chooses to play a different
   variation of the secondary game. Alternatively, a particular
   secondary game may be of fixed duration, e.g.,   lasting for a
   predetermined number of primary game sessions or until the
   occurrence of a specified event. Whenever the player chooses
20 to play a different variation of the secondary game, the
   current secondary game matrix is cleared, and new randomly
   generated positions 33 appear on the secondary game matrix
   30. Additionally, if five specially colored   (e.g. "blue")
   secondary indicia 24 appear simultaneously on the primary
25 game matrix 21, the player wins.  In this circumstance, the
   player wins whether or not a maximum wager was employed, and
   whether or not any of the values displayed on the indicia
   match positions displayed on the secondary game matrix 30.
         If a winning outcome is attained on the secondary game
30 matrix 30, an animated award screen appears, in which five
   BINGO balls animate, one  for each letter of BINGO. The player
   is allowed to choose a BINGO ball. The chosen ball displays a
   value, which is the award credited to the player. The value
   is prominently displayed, accompanied by fanfare and
35 celebratory animation, such as fireworks.
                                                      9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                 8
       Moreover, having thus described the invention, it should
  be apparent that numerous structural modifications and
  adaptations may be resorted to without departing from the
  scope and fair meaning of the instant invention as set forth
5 hereinabove and as described hereinbelow by the claims.
                                                   9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                       9
   Claims:
   1.      A method for use with a gaming machine, the method
   comprising the steps of:
           allowing a player to stake   a wager on a game outcome in
 5 which the gaming machine randomly selects a plurality of symbols
   from a predefined set of     symbols;
           allowing a player to selectively enable at least          one first
   special    symbol in the set  of symbols;   and
           using the first special symbol in a second game only if:
10 the first    special symbol forms part   of the plurality of          symbols
   that are randomly    selected from the predefined set of symbols;
   and the    first special symbol was enabled by the player.
   2.      The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of
15 allowing the player to enable the first       special symbol comprises
   allowing the player to make a further wager in addition to the
   wager, wherein the further wager causes the first        special symbol
   to be enabled.
20 3.      The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
   set of symbols comprises at least      one second special symbol, and
   wherein the method further comprises the step of using the
   second special symbol in the second game:       independently of
   whether the second special symbol has been enabled by the
25 player;    and only if the second special symbol forms part of the
   plurality of    symbols that are randomly selected from the
   predefined set of    symbols.
   4.      The method as claimed in any one of claims     1 to 3, wherein
30 allowing the player to selectively enable the first         special
   symbol occurs subsequent to the game      outcome being generated.
                                                             9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                     10
    5.    The method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
    the method further comprises the step of allowing the player to
    select at least  one of a plurality of variations of the          second
    game.
  5 6.    A gaming machine comprising a game   controller arranged to:
          allow a player to  stake a wager on a game outcome in which
    the gaming machine randomly   selects a plurality of symbols from
    a predefined set of symbols;
          allow a player to selectively enable at least one first
10  special symbol in the set of symbols;     and
          use the first special symbol in a second game only if:
    the first special symbol forms part of the plurality of
    symbols that are randomly selected from the predefined set of
    symbols; and the first special symbol was enabled by the
15  player.
    7.    The gaming machine as claimed in claim 6, wherein
    allowing the player to enable the first special symbol
    comprises allowing the player to make a further wager in
20  addition to the wager, wherein the further wager causes the
    first special symbol to be enabled.
    8.    The gaming machine as claimed in claim 6 or 7, wherein
    the set of symbols comprises at least one second special
    symbol, and wherein the game controller is further arranged
25  to use the second special symbol in the second game:
    independently of whether the second special symbol has been
    enabled by the player;   and only if the second special symbol
    forms part of the plurality of symbols that are randomly
    selected from the predefined set of symbols.
30
    9.    The gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
    8, wherein allowing the player to selectively enable the
                                                          9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

                                 11
  first special symbol occurs subsequent to the game outcome
  being generated.
  10.  The gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
  9, wherein the game controller is further arranged to allow
5 the player to select at least one of a plurality of
  variations of the second game.
                                                   9642720_1 (GHMatters) P88225.AU.3

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
