PARAMETRIC CHASSIS SYSTEM FOR VEHICLES, COMPRISING
FOUR SUSPENSION ELEMENTS, INCORPORATING A LATERAL
TORSION BAR AND CO-AXIAL DAMPER UNIT, IN A BOX-MODULE,
THAT ALLOWS CENTRAL LOCATION OF HEAVY ITEMS, SUCH AS
BATTERIES.
ABSTRACT
       A chamber cluster including one or more chambers for a co-axial damper unit of a
suspension module, each chamber of the chamber cluster comprising a damping wing, enclosed
in a flexible component, in contact with an inner surface of the chamber cluster, wherein the
wing is rotatable in a volume space, formed in a portion of the chamber, that is filled with a
viscous fluid, a pressure of the viscous fluid being controlled by a pressure control valve,
wherein the wing is driven by motion of a torsion bar of a suspension module that rotates about
an axis, the torsion bar being rigidly attached to a first drive gear, which drives the wing via a
coupling of an idle gear, and a second drive gear, connected to the wing, wherein the wing is
within the volume space, that is sealed by outer seals, and inner seals, sealing the torsion bar, the
chamber cluster, a bulkhead and an assembly cover, wherein an outer gear locator bracket, and
an inner gear locator bracket orient orienting the axes of rotation of the idle gear and the drive
gear, wherein the motion of the wing in the volume space provides damping for the torsion bar
the damping being variable, by changing a viscosity of the viscous fluid with an electromagnetic
device attached to the chamber, wherein the flexible component has a W-shaped cross-section,
with a closed top section and an open lower section, that allows the enclosure of the wing into
the flexible component, and allows the partial sealing of the volume space, during rotation of the
wing, thus achieving damping.

                                                   1
PARAMETRIC CHASSIS SYSTEM FOR VEHICLES, COMPRISING
FOUR SUSPENSION ELEMENTS, INCORPORATING A LATERAL
TORSION BAR AND CO-AXIAL DAMPER UNIT, IN A BOX-MODULE,
THAT ALLOWS CENTRAL LOCATION OF HEAVY ITEMS, SUCH AS
BATTERIES.
DESCRIPTION
      A parametric chassis system for road vehicles, comprising four suspension elements,
incorporating a lateral torsion bar and an enveloping co-axial damper unit, situated inside a
box-structure, that allows that storage of heavy items, such as batteries or fuel cells, within
the chassis. The suspension element uses a longitudinal arm which transmits drive and brake
forces-to thewheel. The suspension module, which incorporates a lateral torsion bar and a co
axial damper unit, acts as a structural member of the chassis, having active-adaptive and
asymmetrical-steer features.
      Up until now, such a suspension and chassis arrangement has not been devised. In
recent years there has been a tendency to increase the wheelbase, due to cabin-space and
handling (understeering) considerations. The increase of the wheelbase results in a heavier
vehicle, which is further induced by the need to incorporate heavy items such batteries or
fuel cells.
      It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or ameliorate one or more
of the above disadvantages, or at least provide a useful alternative.
      A first aspect of the present invention provides a parametric chassis system for vehicles,
comprising a rear subframe, formed by a pair of two opposed box-panels encasing two
pre-fabricated suspension-box-modules connected to a pair of trailing arms, for the rear
suspension, each suspension-box-module comprising a lateral torsion bar and an enveloping co
axial damper unit and locating the two trailing arms via bases, whereby a track of the rear
subframe is defined by a size of a track panel used as a spacer connecting the two opposed
suspension-box-modules, a front subframe, which corresponds to the reversed rear subframe,
whereby two leading arms located by the front subframe locate wheels and accommodate
steering via two swivels, and two longitudinal panels which define a wheel base of the vehicle
and connect the rear subframe to the front subframe, wherein the four suspension-box-modules

                                                 la
of the front subframe and the rear subframe in fully active/adaptive mode, feature asymmetric
steering characteristics are reproduced on each corner of the chassis, feature electronic control
without mechanical connection and give the vehicle control of ride-height, control of body-roll
and control of dynamic handling, by always ensuring the verticality of the wheels, to the desired
degree.
      A second aspect of the present invention provides a body-shell of a vehicle, comprising the
parametric chassis system according the above first aspect, and external body-shell members,
wherein the body-shell formed by the chassis system and the body-shell members is
supplementary self-carrying.
      At least a preferred embodiment utilises a multiplicity of identical subsystems, providing
high structural rigidity, for a given wheelbase: and a low-cost, compact, light construction.
Furthermore, the bay accommodating the heavy items is inherently designed-in the chassis
and not fitted as an afterthought. The well known suspension of leading and trailing arms is
coupled to a new concept of springing, using a lateral torsion bar and an enveloping co-axial
damper unit, which can be activated in an active-adaptive manner. The resulting chassis can
be produced in a cost-effective way, utilising the concept of component multiplicity,
positioning four identical suspension modules on each corner of the chassis. Furthermore, the
chassis uses the modules as structural members, achieving high structural rigidity, for a given
wheelbase, as the frame is made shorter by a length of two suspension arms (by comparison to
adopting conventional McPherson linkages or transverse arms) while improving wheel
compliance.
      Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described hereinafter, by way of examples
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
       The following description relates to Figures 1 - 17.
      Referring to Fig. 1, a section of the suspension module is shown. The lateral torsion bar,
the enveloping co-axial damper unit, their location on the frame, the suspension arm and wheel
are presented.
      In Fig.2 an alternative locating system (using a bracket) for the suspension arm is shown.
      In Fig.3 a locating arrangement for the reactive springing of the active-adaptive control is
shown.

                                                2
     In Fig.4 an alternative to the variable anchoring, (locating the fixing end) of the torsion bar,
     is shown.
     In Fig. 5 the power transmission system, with a belt through the arm, is displayed.
     In Fig. 6 the suspension system without the panel, the arm and the wheel, as well as the
  5 sections of the suspension module and the track element of the chassis are displayed.
     In Fig. 7 an alternative hinged upper section of the arm of the paneled suspension is
    shown.
    In Fig. 8 a system of arm with upper solid section and secondary inner section is
    displayed.
 10 In Fig. 9 the chassis is displayed by half, as it is externally. On the one side, the partial
    elements of the suspension and the front supplementary external upper-section of the
    body-shell are shown.
    In Fig. 10 a schematic section of an alternative front assembly is displayed, where the
    suspension arms are hinged.
15  In Fig. 11 an alternative arm of the suspension and the wheel are displayed.
    In Fig. 12 an alternative arm of the suspension, the wheel, the damper in a section, the
    torsion bar and the track element are displayed.
    In Fig. 13 the transmission system of the arm via a belt is displayed.
    In Fig. 14 the invented system is displayed in perspective, with a section of two modules.
20  In Fig. 15 one quarter of the frame is displayed in perspective, where the basic parts of
    the invention are shown. Namely, the motor, the transmission system through the arm, the
    system of asymmetric steering, module in section, the torsion bar and the co-axial system
    of damper and the track element.
    In Fig. 16 a plan view of one quarter of the frame is displayed.
25  In Fig. 17 the system of the chassis is displayed in plan view, that is formed by the
    integration of four quarters.
         Referring to a selected indicative example of industrial application of the invention, a
    number of the main sections and components of the system are listed below.
    More specifically, the basic parts of the invention are the following:
30' 1. Suspension bar.
    2. Suspension axis.
    3. Anchoring end (Passive end or Active end).
    4. End connection base (Suspension connection).
    5. Suspension arm.
35  6. Wheel.
    7. Fastener securing the arm to the torsion bar.
    8. Connection unit of suspension arm to the torsion bar.

                                                3
     9. Damper (Active or not).
     10. Wings of damper.
     11. Base of wings (of damper).
     12. Connection of the torsion bar to the wings of damper.
  5  13. Damper flanges (seals).
     14. Feed and control valves of liquid for the damper.
     15. Support bearing (of suspension).
     16. Inner bearing (of support of the suspension).
     17. Suspension box-module, comprising lateral torsion-bar and enveloping co-axial
10  damper unit.
     18. Anchoring of damper to the box-module.
     19. Point of anchoring of the torsion bar.
    20. Panel of suspension and sleeve of position of the casing of the suspension.
    21. Support guides of the suspension module, in the panel of the frame.
15  22. Securing section for the box-module, on the panel.
    23. Securing section of the rod on the chassis.
    24. Securing bulge on the bar.
    25. External supporting bracket of the arm on the chassis.
    26. External fastener for connection of the arm to the chassis.
20  27. Active end of anchoring.
    28. Shank at the connection end of the reaction mechanism .
    29. External support bearings (of the arm).
    30. Internal support bearings of the arm .
    31. Sliding mechanism of anchoring.
25  32. Sliding groove in the torsion bar.
    33. Ring for transmission of motion (co-axial with bar).
    34. Transmission belt.
    35. Transmission wheels (or pulleys).
    36. Support bearings.
30  37. Elastic cover of transmission belt.
    38. Track element or member (panel).
    39. Wheelbase element or member (panel).
    40. Upper solid section of the suspension arm.
    41. Secondary inner section of the suspension arm.
35  42. Hinged upper section of the suspension arm.
    43. Hinged lower section of the suspension arm.
    44. Steered wheel shank (king-pin spindle or swivel, for steering).

                                               4
   45. Supplementary exterior upper member of body shell (front and rear).
   46. Storage bay of alternative fuels or batteries.
   47. Total frame (chassis) of vehicle.
   48. Electric motor (for power transmission and braking).
 5 49. Slot for access in to the storage area.
   50. Aerodynamic surface on the arm.
   51. Universal joint (Constant velocity joint).
   52. Total sub-system (Figure 16).
   53. Vehicle (Figure 17) consisting of 4 sub-systems.
10 54. Assembly of power transmission (drive unit).
   55. Assembly of the steering input (for the steered wheel) .
   56. Assembly for the control of pressure of the liquid for the damper.
   57. Assembly for the control of the reactive force of the torsion bar (in the active spring
   mode).
15     By this invention, a frame (47) (chassis) of a vehicle is produced (Figure 14), that is
   cheap to manufacture, by using prefabricated sub-systems (17) and parametric
   components (38),(39). The chassis is simple and robust and can accept active-adaptive
   technology at the inner anchoring (19) of the torsion bar (1) in the suspension module
   (17). (Figure 6).
20    According to a selected application of the invention, the invented system of frame, is of
   chassis type (Figure 9), employing a pair of totally lagging arms (5) for the rear
   suspension.
      A sub-frame is created by two opposed panels (20), connecting the two prefabricated
   transverse systems (17) of bar (1)(for springing) / damper (9) in box-modules, that
25 connect the suspension arms (5) via the bases (4) to the bars (1) (Figure 1).
   The vehicle's (rear) track is defined by the centre section of the track : element (38).
   (Figure 6).
      The same system reversed, serves as the front suspension, with the difference that the
   arm (5) on its end, instead of anchoring steadily the bearing of the wheel (6), allows its
30 rotation around an axis through the shank (44) (figure 11).
      The front and rear suspensions are characterized by successive repetition (duplication),
   in the case of the sub-frames and for the entire frame. A frame is formed, by the use of
   sections of the wheelbase (39), in which the active suspensions (27, 28, 31 & 57) /
   dampers (9, 14, 56) and the panels of storage of batteries or alternative fuels (46) (Figure
35 9), all participate. This assembly, in fully active / adaptive mode has control of height,
   control of roll and control of dynamic handling that ensures always the verticality of the
   wheels to the desired degree.

                                                5
    In a passive mode, the invented system induces the driving characteristics (advantages
   and disadvantages) of         lagging/advancing (trailing/leading) arms (with the necessary
    interventions for bump-steer, roll-steer etc). This is achieved by the contouring of the
   profile of the external support bearing (29) of the suspension (Figures 4, 5, 11), in
 5 combination with the design of the shank (44) (Figure 12).
     That was a simplified version of the invention.
       The culminating application of this innovation is the use of four identical subsystems
   that have active and adaptive suspension, power transmission / braking and steering for
   the wheel, that is based on a system of lateral torsion bar (1) (spring) and damper (9), in a
10 box-module (17) embedded in a panel (20), connected to a motor (48), a transmission
   assembly (54), a transmission ring (33), transmission wheels (35), suspension arm (5),
   steering system ( by one or two electric/hydraulic or equivalent mechanisms (55) ), control
   assembly for the pressure of the damper liquid (56) and control assembly for reactive
   springing of the torsion bar (57), implementing asymmetric steering.
15 Asymmetric steering is defined as inducing greater steering angles on the outer (front and
   rear) wheels than the inner wheels.
       During the vehicle's turning process, the weight transference increases the loads on the
   wheels of the outer side of each axle. The outer wheels are steered by greater steering
   angles, whereas the inner wheels complete dynamically their rotations, steered by smaller
20 angles, in function with the differential in loading between the outer and the inner wheel. In
   quasi-static dynamic conditions (with very small vehicle speeds) the front and the rear
   outer wheels turn and are steered, whereas the inner wheels turn and are steered less,
   changing the rates of their rotation, without-violating the principle of creation of an angle of
   lateral sliding (sideslip) according to Ackermann.
25     In the invented system (Figure 9), a robust total sub-frame is created for the (front and
   rear) suspension, that allows the creation of a storage area (46) for heavy batteries or fuel
   cells in the centre, that is accessible externally through a slot (49). This allows the
   manufacture of a total body shell that is supplementary self-carrying, in combination with
   external sections of the body-shell (45) (front and rear). These can be designed by a
30 tailoring technique, with the main design criterion being the absorption of impact energy,
   without the need of other design arrangements (Figure 9).
       The suspension box-module (17) in a panel (20) (Figure 1) encloses the suspension.
   The torsion bar (1), that constitutes the "spring" of the suspension, is anchored to the.
   panel of the frame (20) in the inner fixed point of anchoring (19). The torsion bar (1) has
35 different cross-sections and form, in relation to its length. The bulge (24) secures its
   position on the frame (23). On the outer end of the bar (1), the wings (10) of the damper
   (9) are fixed on the bar, via sections (11), (12). During the travelling of the suspension, the

                                                6
    bar (1) is rotated differentially around the axis (2) (as a function of its length), rotating the
   wings (10). The casing of the damper (9) is anchored (18) on to the casing (17) of the box
    module. The damping is achieved through the relative rotary motion of the wings, fixed on
   the outer end of the bar (1) and the smaller fixed wings connected to the casing (9), or
 5 through any other assembly. The contained liquid in the damper (9) is sealed by flanges
   (13) and through valves (14) of supply/control and relevant assemblies (56), the active
   damping is achieved. Supplementary damping may also be achieved through already
   known aerodynamic surfaces (50) (Figure 10). The box-module of the suspension (17) is
   placed and supported with surfaces (21) and it is secured on the panel of the frame (20),
10 through the securing section for the box-module on the panel (22).
      The bar (1) is connected and secured to the suspension arm (5) through sections (7)
   and (8) (Figure 1). The arm (5) through the bar (1) is alternatively supported via the
   bracket (25) to the frame and it is secured through the fastener (26) (Figures 2, 6, 7). The
   suspension arm in active mode reacts on the end (27), through a shank (28) (Figure 3).
15 Alternatively, the apparent constant (torsional rigidity) of the torsion bar changes through
   the transfer of the anchoring point, using a sliding mechanism (31), (32) and relevant
   assemblies (Figure 4).
      The bar (1) constitutes a structural element of the suspension and the frame, which
   allows the power transmission / braking (Figure 5), using a ring for the transmission of
20 motion (33) (Figures 5,15,16). The location of the suspension arm is achieved with inner
   bearings (30) (figure 4).
      The arm (5) alternatively is located via bearings (29) externally on to the box-module of
   the suspension, that give kinematic features during the passive operation to the
   suspension. (Figures 4, 5, 11).
25    The arm (5) through the wheels (35) and a belt (34) transmits motion (power and
   braking) to the driven wheel (6) (Figures 5, 13, 15, 16).
   The chassis (47) (Figure 14) and (53) (Figure 17) is formed by a repetitive insertion of four
   modules (17) in panels (20), that are connected through defining sections of the track (38)
   and the wheelbase (39) (Figure 6). Using traditional transmission systems (namely without
30 belt), the drive assembly passes through the section of the track (38).
   Alternatively, the wheel (6) is suspended on the panel (20) through hinged arms (42) and
   (43) (Figure 7 & 10), or through solid sections of an arm (5) with sections (40), (41),
   (Figure 8). The form of the arms (5), (40), (41) (42) & (43) depends on a
   kinematic/dynamic analysis of the loads that are generated during the motion.
35 The invented system of frame, allows its connection with supplementary external-upper
   sections of the body-shell (45) (front and rear) that are designed based primarily on their

                                                   7
impact absorbption, disregarding other design compromises.           These sections (45) constitute
zones of controlled distortion (figure 9).
The following description relates to Figures 18 - 21.
        One embodiment of the present invention is the integration of a chamber cluster into an
assmebly that makes up a co-axial damper unit, and then, in turn, integrated into a cluster
(corresponding to a chamber cluster) of cluster units (corresponding to, e.g., parts 3, 4, 5, 6), and
thus integrated into a suspension module of a vehicle. The resulting suspension module is made
up of many independent chambers, utilizing the primary motion of the torsion bar, (which acts as
the "spring" of the suspension module). The assembly of the co-axial damper unit, comprises
several sets of gear drives, incorporating several idle gears to drive the corresponiding damping
wing surfaces.    Furthermore, each chamber cluster housess a W-shaped flexible component,
enclosing each damping wing. The resulting co-axial damper unit, made up of an assembly of
serveral chamber clusters, can provide varial damping characteristics, by varying the pressure of
the fluid and by varying the viscous characteristics of the fluid, inside the chambers, by
electromagnetic and magnetic means.
        A "single chamber cluster" notion, that "builds" the required "damper unit", offers
advantages in design and production terms.
        In the following, a preferred embodiment of the invention will be discussed in more
detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
       The invention will be made conceivable with reference to the designs that accompany the
present description, in which certain proposed industrial applications of the invention are shown.
       FIG. 18 shows a view of one chamber cluster, its constituent parts, and how it is attached
to (the driving) torsion bar, of the suspension module.
       FIG. 19 depicts the constituent parts of the chamber cluster, in section.

                                                    7a
       FIG. 20 shows a detailed view of the gear drive, the wing and the W-shaped flexible
component, inside the chamber.
       FIG. 21 depicts the resulting assembly of several chamber clusters, making up the co-axial
damper unit of a suspension module.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
       FIG. 18-FIG. 21 show a preferred embodiment of the invention. While this particular
embodiment will be described in detail below, several modifications will be appreciated by a
person skilled in the art, so that the invention shall not be interpreted in a limited manner,
referring to the description and the drawings. Rather the invention is defined by the appended
claims.
       Referring to a selected indicative example of industrial application of the invention, a
number of the main sections and components of the device are listed below. More specifically,
the basic parts of the invention are the following:
       * 1. Chamber cluster, that encloses one damper wing.
       * 2. Torsion bar (suspension 'spring').
       * 3. Drive gear (fitted onto the torsion bar).
       * 4. Idle gear, (transfering the motion of the drive gear, to the wing gear).
       * 5. Wing gear.
       * 6. Wing.
       * 7. Flexible component (W-shaped wing-enclosure).
       * 8. Assembly cover.
       * 9. Outer gear locator bracket, (holding/controlling parts 4,5,16,17)
       * 10. Outer seals.
       * 11. Inner seals.
       * 12. Inner gear locator bracket, (holding/controlling parts 4,5,16,17)
       * 13. Pressure control valve.
       * 14. Flexible part of the wing.
       * 15.   Electromagnetic    device   that affects the viscosity of the damper fluid via
electromagnetic interference with the fulid.

                                                  7b
       * 16. Axis of rotation of the idle gear.
       * 17. Axis of rotation of the wing gear.
       * 18. Axis of rotation of the torsion bar.
       * 19. Viscous fluid volume space.
       * 20. Assembly bulkhead.
       In FIGS. 18-21, reference numeral 1 designated the chamber cluster. The chamber cluster
(1), shown in FIGS. 18 and 19, encloses the constituent parts (4), (5), (6), (7) that are connected
to the torsion bar (2), via the assembly bulkhead (20).
       The rotary motion of the torsion bar (2), (due to the suspension travel), is transmitted via
the drive gear (3), to the damping wing (6), via gears (4) and (5).
       Gears (4), (5) rotate about axes (16), (17) respectively. Gear (3), rigidly attached to the
torsion bar (2), rotates about an axis (18).
       According to the preferrred embodiment shown, the chamber cluster (1), shown in FIG. 18,
encloses a damping wing (6) that is enclosed in a W-shaped flexible component (7). (FIG. 20)
       The rotational motion (FIG. 20), of the damping wing (6), takes place inside the volume
space (19). This volume is filled with a viscous fluid, and is formed by the assembly of several
chamber clusters around the torsion bar (2), about an axis (18). (FIG. 21, FIG. 18). This
assembly is formed using the bulkhead (20).
       In FIG. 20, the shape of the W-shaped component (7), is shown in section. This flexible
component is closed at the top and open at the lower end, allowing the positioning of the wing
(6), inside part (7), occupying the viscous fluid volume (19), within the chamber cluster (1). The
rotation of wing (6) creates damping.
       The pressure of the fluid in volume (19) is regulated via the valve (13). The viscosity of the
fluid can be varied through the electromagnetic device (15), that encloses the chamber cluster
(1). FIG. 19. In this case, the viscous fluid becomes a two phase fluid.
       Within the chamber cluster (1), the outer gear locator bracket (9) and the inner gear locator
bracket (12), position the axes of rotation (16),(17) of gears (4),(5) respectively. The volume (19)
is sealed via outer seals (10) and inner seals (11), in sliding contact with the torsion bar (2),

                                                 7c
which is sealed with the assembly cover (8), and connected to the assembly bulkhead (20). FIG.
19.
       The use of the flexible part of the wing (14), attached to wing (6), is associated with the
flexible component (7), and the use of a two-phase fluid in volume (19), subject to an
electromagnetic device (15), that alters the viscosity of the fluid via electromagnetic interference
with the fulid, offering variable damping characteristics to the damper unit and the suspension
module.
       The resulting assembly (FIG. 21), is formed by the succesive positioning of several
chamber cluster (1) units, about the axis (18), and the suspension module torsion bar (2),
connected via the bulkhead (20), and the assembly cover (8).
      In FIG. 21 a five-chamber-cluster (1) assembly is, indicatively, shown.
      A Flexible component having lips to seal the chamber is provided.
       The wing includes slots and vortex inducing holes.

                                                    8
CLAIMS:
1.      A chamber cluster including one or more chambers for a co-axial damper unit of a
suspension module, each chamber of the chamber cluster comprising a damping wing, enclosed
in a flexible component, in contact with an inner surface of the chamber cluster,
        wherein the wing is rotatable in a volume space, formed in a portion of the chamber, that
is filled with a viscous fluid, a pressure of the viscous fluid being controlled by a pressure
control valve,
        wherein the wing is driven by motion of a torsion bar of a suspension module that rotates
about an axis, the torsion bar being rigidly attached to a first drive gear, which drives the wing
via a coupling of an idle gear, and a second drive gear, connected to the wing,
        wherein the wing is within the volume space, that is sealed by outer seals, and inner seals,
sealing the torsion bar, the chamber cluster, a bulkhead and an assembly cover,
        wherein an outer gear locator bracket, and an inner gear locator bracket orient orienting
the axes of rotation of the idle gear and the drive gear,
        wherein the motion of the wing in the volume space provides damping for the torsion bar
the damping being variable, by changing a viscosity of the viscous fluid with an electromagnetic
device attached to the chamber,
        wherein the flexible component has a W-shaped cross-section, with a closed top section
and an open lower section, that allows the enclosure of the wing into the flexible component,
and allows the partial sealing of the volume space, during rotation of the wing, thus achieving
damping.
2.      The chamber cluster according to claim 1, wherein the second drive gear is blocked from
the fluid of the chamber via the flexible component.
3.      The chamber cluster according to claim 1, wherein the flexible component, in which the
wing is enclosed, is in contact with a flexible part of the wing, thereby achieving the damping
characteristics during the motion of the wing in the volume.
4.      The chamber cluster according to claim 1, wherein each of the chambers in the chamber
cluster is arranged around the torsion bar, to damp a primary suspension motion of the torsion
bar.

                                                  9
5.    The chamber cluster according to claim 1, wherein the flexible component has a closed
top section that is in contact with the chamber, and an open lower section with lips, that encloses
the wing, and follows the motion of the wing, to achieve damping.
6.    The chamber cluster according to claim 1, wherein the wing comprises slots and holes to
induce damping.
7.    The chamber cluster according to claim 6, wherein the wing and flexible part of the wing
comprise surfaces defining vortex inducing holes.
8.    A vehicle comprising the suspension module with the chamber cluster of claim 1.
                                    Dimitrios A. Hatzikakidis
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           15/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/21

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/21

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E>
                                      18/21

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
                                     19/21

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+2701>                              20/21

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>                              21/21

