         BARE SINGLE-LAYER GRAPHENE MEMBRANE HAVING
                  A NANOPORE ENABLING HIGH-SENSITIVITY
                    MOLECULAR DETECTION AND ANALYSIS
                                              Abstract
       There is provided a substantially bare, single-layer grapherne membrane including a
nanopore extending through a thickness of the grapheme membrane frorn a first to a second
membrane surface opposite the first grapheme membrane surface. A connection from the first
grapheme membrane surface 10 a first reservoir provides, at the first grapheme membrane
surface, a species in an ionic solution to the nanopore, and a connection from the second
grapheme membrane surface to a second reservoir is provided to collect the species and ionic
solution after translocation of the species and ionic solution through the nanopore from the first
grapheme membrane surface to the second grapheme membrane surface. An electrical circuit is
connected on opposite sides of the nanapore to measure flow of ionic current through the
nanopore in the grapheme membrane.

                                                1
          BARE SINGLE-LAYER GRAPHENE MEMBRANE HAVING
                A NANOPORE ENABLING 14IGH-SENSITIVITY
                  MOLECULAR DETECTION AND ANALYSIS
             CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]        This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application
No, 61/243,607, filed September 18, 2009, the entirety of which is hereby
incorporated by reference. This application also claims the benefit of U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/355,528, filed June 16, 2010, the entirety of
which is hereby incorporated by reference. The present application is a divisional of AU
<removed-apn>, the entire specification of which is incorporated herein by cross-reference.
       STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
  [0002]        This invention was made with Government support under
  Contract No. 2R01HG003703-04 awarded by the NIH. The Government has
  certain rights in the invention.
                                    BACKGROUND
  [0003]        This invention relates generally to molecular detection and
  analysis, and more particularly relates to configurations for a nanopore
  arranged to detect molecules translocating through the nanopore.
  [0004]        The detection, characterization, identification, and sequencing of
  molecules, including biomolecules, e.g., polynucleotides such as the biopolymer
  nucleic acid molecules DNA, RNA, and peptide nucleic acid (PNA), as well as
  proteins, and other biological molecules, is an important and expanding field of
  research. There is currently a great need for processes that can determine the
  hybridization state, configuration, monomer stacking, and sequence of polymer
  molecules in a rapid, reliable, and inexpensive manner. Advances in polymer
  synthesis and fabrication and a dvances in biological development and
  medicine, particularly in the area of gene therapy, development of new

                                           -2
pharmaceuticals, and matching of appropriate therapy to patient, are in large
part dependent on such processes.
[0005]        In one process for molecular analysis, it has been shown that
molecules such as nucleic acids and proteins can be transported through a
natural or solid-state nano-scale pore, or nanopore, and that characteristics of
the molecule, including its identification, its state of hybridization, its
interaction with other molecules, and its sequence, i.e., the linear order of the
monomers of which a polymer is composed, can be discerned by and during
transport through the nanopore. Transport of a molecule through a nanopore
can be accomplished by, e.g., electrophoresis, or other translocation
mechanism.
[0006]        In one particularly popular configuration for molecular analysis
with a nanopore, the flow of ionic current through a nanopore is monitored as a
liquid ionic solution, and molecules to be studied that are provided in the
solution, traverse the nanopore. As molecules in the ionic solution translocate
through the nanopore, the molecules at least partially block flow of the liquid
solution, and the ions in the solution, through the nanopore. This blockage of
ionic solution can be detected as a reduction in measured ionic current through
the nanopore. With a configuration that imposes single-molecule traversal of
the nanopore, this ionic blockage measurement technique has been
demonstrated to successfully detect individual molecular nanopore
translocation events.
[0007]        Ideally, this ionic blockage measurement technique for molecular
analysis, like others that have been proposed, should enable molecular
characterization with high sensitivity and resolution on the scale of single
monomer resolution. Unambiguous resolution of individual monomer
characteristics is critical for reliable applications such as biomolecular
sequencing applications. But this capability has been difficult to achieve in
practice, particularly for solid-state nanopore configurations. It has been

                                           -3
found that the length of a solid state nanopore, determined by the thickness of
a material layer or layers in which the nanopore is formed, impacts the nature
of molecular traversal of the nanopore, and directly limits the sensitivity and
the resolution with which molecules in the nanopore can be detected and
analyzed.
                         SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]         There is provided a nanopore sensor that overcomes the
sensitivity and resolution limitations of conventional sensors. In one example
of such there is provided a nanopore sensor including a solid state membrane
having a thickness between a first membrane surface and a second membrane
surface opposite the first membrane surface that is less than about 1 nm. A
nanopore extends through the membrane thickness between the first and
second membrane surfaces and has a diameter that is greater than the
membrane thickness. There is a connection from the first membrane surface
to a first reservoir to provide, at the first membrane surface, a species in an
ionic solution to the nanopore, and a connection from the second membrane
surface to a second reservoir to collect the species and ionic solution after
translocation of the species and ionic solution through the nanopore from the
first membrane surface to the second membrane surface. An electrical circuit
is connected to monitor translocation of the species in the ionic solution
through the nanopore in the membrane.
[0009]         This nanopore sensor can be provided as a graphene nanopore
sensor. Here there is provided a substantially bare, single-layer graphene
membrane including a nanopore extending through a thickness of the
graphene membrane from a first graphene membrane surface to a second
graphene membrane surface opposite the first graphene membrane surface. A
connection from the first graphene membrane surface to a first reservoir
provides, at the first graphene membrane surface, a species in an ionic solution
to the nanopore, and a connection from the second graphene membrane surface

                                         -4
to a second reservoir is provided to collect the species and ionic solution after
translocation of the species and ionic solution through the nanopore from the
first graphene membrane surface to the second graphene membrane surface.
An electrical circuit is connected on opposite sides of the nanopore to measure
flow of ionic current through the nanopore in the graphene membrane.
[0010]        In a further graphene nanopore sensor a substantially bare,
single-layer graphene membrane includes a nanopore extending through a
thickness of the graphene membrane from a first graphene membrane surface
to a second graphene membrane surface opposite the first graphene surface
and having a diameter that is less than about 3 nm and greater than the
graphene thickness. An electrical circuit is connected on opposite sides of the
nanopore to measure flow of ionic current through the nanopore in the
graphene membrane.
[0011]        These configurations enable a method for evaluating a polymer
molecule in which the polymer molecule to be evaluated is provided in an ionic
solution. The polymer molecule in the ionic solution is translocated through a
nanopore in a substantially bare, single-layer graphene membrane from a first
graphene membrane surface to a second graphene membrane surface opposite
the first graphene surface and the flow of ionic current through the nanopore
in the graphene membrane is monitored.
[0012]        These sensor arrangements and sensing methods enable high
resolution, high- sensitivity molecular detection and analysis, thereby
achieving sensing of closely-spaced monomers in a polymer and accordingly,
sequentially resolving the different ionic blockages caused by each monomer
in, for example, a strand of a DNA polymer. Other features and advantages of
the invention will be apparent from the following description and
accompanying figures, and from the claims.

                                           -5
                  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]        Fig. 1 is a schematic perspective view of an example graphene
nanopore device for detecting molecules by measurement of ionic flow through
the nanopore;
[0014]        Figs. 2A-2E are schematic side views of six theoretical nanopores
in membranes, each nanopore of 2.4 nm in diameter and ranging in nanopore
length from 0.6, nm, 1 nm, 2 nm, 5 nm and 10 nm, respectively, with the
average ionic current density at various regions through each nanopore
represented the lengths of arrows shown in the nanopores;
[0015]        Fig. 3 is a plot of ionic current blockade, defined as the absolute
value of the difference between the ionic current through an unblocked
nanopore and the ionic current through the same nanopore when blocked with
a molecule of the indicated diameter, for a 3M KC1 ionic solution and a
nanopore bias of 160 mV, for nanopores having a 2.5 nm diameter and effective
lengths of 0.6 nm, 2 nm, 5 nm, and 10 nm;
[0016]        Fig. 4 is an X-ray diffraction image of an experimental graphene
membrane, displaying the requisite hexagonal pattern that arises from the
hexagonal packing of carbon atoms in a single graphene layer;
[0017]        Fig. 5 is a plot of Raman shift measurements for an experimental
graphene membrane indicating single-layer graphene for the membrane;
[0018]        Fig. 6 is a plot of experimentally-measured data of ionic current
as a function of the voltage bias applied between 3M KC1 ionic solutions on the
cis and trans sides of an experimental graphene membrane;
[0019]        Fig. 7 shows the plot of Fig. 6 and a plot of ionic current as a
function of voltage for an experimental graphene membrane including an 8
nm-wide nanopore;

                                           -6
[0020]        Fig. 8 is a plot of ionic conductance as a function of nanopore
diameter for nanopores having a length of 0.6 nm, 2 nm, and 10 nm;
[0021]        Fig. 9 is a plot of measured ionic current as a function of time for
a 2.5 nm nanopore in an experimental graphene membrane as DNA fragments
translocate through the nanopore;
[0022]        Figs. 10A-10C are plots of measured ionic current as a function of
time taken from the plot of Fig. 9, showing in detail the current profile for
DNA nanopore translocation in single-file fashion, in partially-folded fashion,
and folded in half;
[0023]        Fig. 11 is a plot of ionic current blockage as a function of DNA
translocation of a nanopore in a graphene membrane for 400 translocation
events; and
[0024]        Fig. 12 is a plot of the percentage change in ionic current blockade
as a function of distance through a nanopore, for a 0.6 nm-long nanopore and
for a 1.5 nm-long nanopore.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0025]        Fig. 1 is a schematic perspective view of an example graphene
nanopore molecular characterization device 10. For clarity of discussion,
device features illustrated in Fig. 1 are not shown to scale. As shown in Fig. 1,
in the device there is provided a nano-scale aperture, or nanopore 12, in a bare,
single-layer graphene membrane 14. The graphene membrane is self
supported, meaning that there are no structures under the extent of the
membrane to support the membrane. At the edges of the membrane there can
be provided, e.g., a support frame 16, which in turn can be provided on a
support substrate or other structure 18. The self-supported bare graphene
membrane is configured in a fluidic cell such that on the first, or cis, side of the
graphene membrane is a connection to a first liquid reservoir or liquid supply
containing a liquid solution including molecules 20 to be characterized, and on

                                           -7
the second, or trans, side of the graphene membrane is a connection to a
second liquid reservoir, into which characterized molecules are transported by
translocation through the graphene nanopore 12.
[0026]        In one application of the graphene nanopore, shown in the figure,
the molecules 20 to be characterized comprise single-stranded DNA molecules
(ssDNA) having a sequence of nucleoside bases 22 to be characterized, for
example, by determining the identity of the sequence of bases along each
ssDNA backbone. For clarity of discussion this sequencing example will be
employed in the following description, but such is not the exclusive application
of the graphene nanopore characterization device. In addition, the sequencing
operation described below is not limited to the example of DNA; the
polynucleotide RNA can similarly be characterized. The molecular
characterization enabled by the graphene nanopore device includes a wide
range of analyses, including, e.g., sequencing, hybridization detection,
molecular interaction detection and analysis, configuration detection, and
other molecular characterizations. The molecules 20 to be characterized can
include, in general, any molecule, including polymers and biomolecules such as
proteins, nucleic acids such as the polynucleotides DNA and RNA, sugar
polymers, and other biomolecules. The discussion below is therefore not
intended to be limiting to a particular implementation, but provides details of
one example in a range of embodiments for molecular characterization.
[0027]        There is provided for the graphene nanopore of Fig. 1 an
arrangement of features for causing molecules 20 to traverse the nanopore
through the bare, self-supported, single-layer graphene membrane. For
example, there can be provided silver chloride electrodes 24, 26 immersed in
the solutions on either side of the graphene membrane 14, for controlling the
voltage of each solution across the graphene membrane. Application of a
voltage bias 24 between the electrodes in the two solutions on opposing sides of
the membrane causes molecules, e.g., ssDNA molecules, provided in the
solution on the first, or cis, side of the membrane, to be electrophoretically

                                          -8
driven into and through the nanopore 12 to the solution on the second, or trans
side of the membrane, because the DNA backbone is negatively charged when
in solution.
[0028]         The inventors herein have made a surprising discovery that the
ionic resistivity perpendicular to the plane of a bare, single-layer graphene
membrane separating two ionic solution-filled reservoirs is extremely large,
making it possible to establish a significant voltage bias across the graphene
membrane, between the two solutions, in the manner described above. As
explained further in the experimental discussion below, this discovery enables
the configuration of Fig. 1 in which electrical control of the potential across a
single layer of graphene can be maintained in a manner required for molecular
electrophoresis.
[0029]         It is further discovered that a bare, single-layer graphene
membrane is sufficiently mechanically robust to operate as a structural barrier
between two solution-filled reservoirs whether or not these reservoirs are in
communication directly with each other through a nanopore in the graphene
membrane that is supported only at its edges by a frame, i.e., that is self
supported across its extent. As a result, a nanopore-articulated membrane of a
single bare graphene layer can operate to separate two ionic solution-filled
reservoirs, using methods known to those familiar with the nanopore field, for
application of a voltage bias between the two ionic solutions on the cis and
trans sides of the bare graphene membrane to electrophoretically drive
molecules through the nanopore.
[0030]         Other techniques and arrangements can be employed for drawing
molecules through the nanopore, and no particular technique is required.
Further details and examples for electrophoretic driving of molecular
translocation through a nanopore are provided in "Molecular and Atomic Scale
Evaluation of Biopolymers, U.S. No. 6,627,067, to Branton et al., issued
September 30, 2003, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

                                        -9
[0031]        As shown in Figure 1, there can be provided circuitry 26, 28 for
measuring changes in ionic current flow between the cis and trans sides of the
graphene membrane, through the nanopore 12. With this configuration,
translocation of molecules through the nanopore 12 can be detected and based
on the detection, can be analyzed as the molecules are driven through the
nanopore. This molecular detection technique is but one of a wide range of
detection techniques that can be employed with the graphene membrane and
nanopore. Tunneling current between electrodes, e.g., between carbon
nanotubes or other probes articulated at the nanopore, conductance changes in
probes or in the graphene membrane itself, or other molecular detection
technique can be employed, as described, e.g., in "Molecular Characterization
with Carbon Nanotube control, U.S. No. 7,468,271 by Golovchenko et al.,
issued December 23, 2008, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by
reference.
[0032]        Considering specifically the technique of molecular detection by
ionic current flow measurement, the inventors herein have made a surprising
discovery that the ionic current through the nanopore of the bare, single-layer
graphene membrane, when empty of a translocating species, and the ionic
current flow through the nanopore, when blocked by a molecule that is in the
nanopore, are both approximately 3 times greater than the ionic current flow
through a similar-diameter nanopore in any other known lipid or solid state
membrane interface. This significantly greater ionic current flow through a
nanopore in the bare, single-layer graphene membrane, compared to a similar
diameter biopore or nanopore in another solid state membrane, is understood
by the inventors to be due to the thinness of the graphene membrane and
correspondingly, the length of the nanopore through the membrane.
[0033]        A bare graphene membrane is a single-atom layer of a hexagonal
carbon lattice that is therefore atomically thin, being only about 0.3 nm thick.
At this thickness, ionic flow through a nanopore in the bare, single-layer

                                        -10
graphene membrane can be characterized in a regime in which the length of
the nanopore is much less than the diameter of the pore. In this regime, the
ionic conductance of the nanopore is proportional to the nanopore diameter, d,
and the ionic current density through the nanopore is sharply peaked at the
periphery of the nanopore, that is, at the edge of the nanopore, compared with
the current density at the middle of the nanopore. In contrast, nanopores
having a length that is greater than the nanopore diameter are characterized
by an ionic conductance that is proportional to the nanopore area, and that is
homogeneous across the nanopore diameter, with ionic conductivity uniformly
flowing down through the middle of the nanopore as well as at the periphery of
the nanopore.
[0034]        The clear distinction between nanopore conductances in these
two nanopore length regimes are illustrated in Figs. 2A-2E. Referring to those
figures, there are shown representations of the average current density at ten
points across nanopores each having a diameter of 2.4 nm and having a length
of 0.6 nm, 1 nm, 2 nm, 5 nm, and 10 nm, respectively. The relative lengths of
the arrows in the figures indicate the relative average current density in the
region in a nanopore that is represented by the location of each arrow. As
shown in Figs. 2A-2C, for nanopore lengths that are less than the nanopore
diameter of 2.4 nm, the current density is peaked at the nanopore periphery.
As the nanopore length approaches the nanopore diameter, the conductance
across the nanopore becomes more uniform. When the nanopore length is
greater than the nanopore diameter, as in Figs. 2D and 2E, the ionic
conductance is uniformly homogenous across the nanopore, with no preference
for the nanopore periphery. The local current density within different regions
of the nanopores becomes more and more homogeneous as the nanopore length
is increased.
[0035]        As a consequence, a nanopore in a bare, single-layer graphene
membrane in which the nanopore diameter is greater than the nanopore

                                        -11
length exhibits a total ionic conductance, in an unobstructed state, that is
significantly greater than the total conductance of a nanopore of equal
diameter in a membrane having a thickness greater than the nanopore
diameter. Other conditions being equal, the greater conductance results in a
significantly greater total ionic current through an open nanopore of a given
diameter in a membrane thinner than the diameter than in an open nanopore
of equal diameter in a membrane thicker than the diameter. The larger ionic
currents through the graphene membrane facilitate high-accuracy
measurement of ionic current flow through the nanopore.
[0036]        Because the ionic current through nanopores having a length less
than nanopore diameter is primarily at the nanopore periphery rather than
through the nanopore center axis, small changes in the diameter of molecules
centrally traversing the nanopore have an enormous effect on the change in
ionic current flow. This is due to the fact that differences in the diameters of
molecules are manifested at the nanopore edge, where ionic current flow is
greatest for short-length nanopores, rather than in the nanopore center, where
for short-length nanopores ionic current is lower. As a result, a bare, single
layer graphene nanopore having a length less than the nanopore diameter is
more sensitive to molecularly-dimensioned particles or differences in
differently-dimensioned particles, molecules, or their components than are
nanopores having a length greater than the nanopore diameter.
[0037]        The consequence of this consideration is shown quantitatively in
Fig. 3, in which there is plotted the computed ionic current blockage level in a
nanopore as a function of the diameter of polymer molecules centrally
traversing nanopores having a diameter of 2.5 nm and having effective lengths
of 0.6 nm, 2 nm, 5 nm, and 10 nm. The computed current blockade is the
absolute value of the difference between the ionic current though an unblocked
nanopore, i.e., no polymer molecule in the nanopore, and the ionic current
through the same nanopore when blocked with a polymer of the indicated

                                       -12
diameter. The plots assume molecular translocation with an ionic solution of
3M KC1 and a voltage bias of 160 mV between cis and trans sides of the
nanopore. As shown in the plots here, the ionic current through the nanopores
demonstrates increasing sensitivity to changes in diameter of translocating
molecules as the length of the nanopores is decreased.
[0038]       The inventors have further discovered that the sensitivity in a
nanopore's conductivity to changes in translocating molecules' diameters is
maximized when the nanopore diameter is set to be as close as possible to the
diameter of the translocating molecules. This condition is true for nanopores
of any length. For example, as shown in the plots of Fig. 3, for nanopores of 2.5
nm in diameter, as the translocating molecule diameter approaches the
nanopore diameter, the current blockage rises, even where the nanopore
length is greater than the nanopore diameter. But for nanopores in which
nanopore length is less than nanopore diameter, namely 2 nm and 0.6 nm in
the plotted data, it is shown that such short-length nanopores are much more
acutely sensitive to small changes in translocating molecule diameter as the
molecule diameter approaches the nanopore diameter. For these nanopores
the blockade currents rise exponentially with increases in blocking molecule
diameter. For the 5 nm and 10 nm-long nanopores, which are larger than the
nanopore diameter, the blockade currents rise only in a near linear manner,
even as blocking molecules' diameters approach the nanopore diameter.
[0039]       Thus, the resolution of closely-spaced differences in translocating
molecules' diameters is preferably maximized by providing in a single-layer
graphene membrane a nanopore having a diameter that is both greater than
the membrane edge thickness but not much greater than the diameter
expected for molecules that are translocating the nanopore, e.g., no more than
5% greater. To determine this second condition for nanopore diameter for a
given application, there can be carried out an analysis like that described in
the Example below. Briefly, in such an analysis, there is determined via, e.g.,

                                         -13
a Laplace equation, the ionic current density of the ionic solution that will be
used for molecular translocation, the desired sensitivity of molecular
translocation detection is set, and the general requirements for what nanopore
diameter is feasible are determined. Based on these factors, and the
overriding constraint that the nanopore diameter is greater than the
membrane thickness, a nanopore diameter that optimizes all of these factors
can then be selected.
[0040]        The inventors have further discovered that that the electrical
noise from a bare, single-layer graphene nanopore separating two electrically
biased ionic solution-filled reservoirs is proportionally no greater than the
electrical noise from any other solid state nanopore. As a result, given that the
ionic current change, i.e., ionic blockage, through a graphene nanopore is
greater during traversal of a molecule of any given diameter than it is in other
known nanopores having a length greater than the nanopore diameter, a bare,
single-layer graphene nanopore can produce a better signal-to-noise ratio than
other known nanopores because the greater the number of ions counted per
unit time, or per traversing nucleobase, will be more precise than at a lesser
count rate. These discoveries, together with graphene's known chemical
inertness and exceptionally great strength, establish a nanopore-articulated
bare, single-layer graphene membrane as a superior interface for molecular
detection and characterization.
[0041]        As a result of these discoveries, it is preferred that the membrane
be provided as a single layer of graphene that is bare, i.e., that is not coated on
either side with any material layer or species that adds to the graphene
membrane thickness. In this state, the thickness of the membrane is
minimized and is safely in the short-length nanopore regime in which
peripheral ionic current flow is maximized and in which the nanopore
conductivity as a function of changes in the analytes physical dimensions is
maximized. The very short nanopore length provided by the graphene

                                         -14
membrane also makes it possible for a graphene nanopore to sense closely
spaced monomers in a polymer and thus to sequentially resolve the different
ionic blockages caused by each monomer in, for example, a strand of a DNA
polymer.
[0042]        It is recognized that a single-layer graphene membrane has an
affinity for many molecules such as polymer molecules like DNA and RNA. It
can therefore be expected that DNA, RNA, and other like molecules have a
tendency to adsorb onto a bare graphene membrane preferentially. It is
preferred that the absorptive properties of the graphene surface be at least
partially inhibited with an appropriate environment and/or surface treatment
that maintains the membrane in a bare state without added surface layers.
[0043]        For example, there can be provided an ionic solution that is
characterized by a pH greater than about 8, e.g., between about 8.5 and 11 and
that includes a relatively high salt concentration, e.g., greater than about 2M
and in the range from 2.1M to 5M. By employing a basic solution of high ionic
strength, adherence of molecules to the surface of the bare graphene
membrane is minimized. Any suitable selected salt can be employed, e.g., KCl,
NaCl, LiCl, RbCl, MgCl2, or any readily soluble salt whose interaction with the
analyte molecule is not destructive.
[0044]        In addition, as explained in detail below, during synthesis and
manipulation of the graphene membrane it is preferred that extreme care be
taken to maintain the membrane in a pristine condition such that
substantially no residues or other species, which might attract molecules to the
graphene surface, are present. It is also recognized that in operation, the
graphene membrane can be electrically manipulated to repel molecules from
the graphene surface. For example, given translocation of negatively-charged
DNA molecules through a nanopore in a graphene membrane, a graphene
membrane can itself be electrically biased at a negative potential that repels
the negatively-charged DNA molecule. Here electrical contact can be made to

                                         -15
the graphene membrane in any suitable manner that enables application of a
selected voltage. In such a scenario, the voltage between ionic solutions on
either side of the graphene membrane can be set sufficiently high to produce
an electrophoretic force which overcomes the repulsion at the graphene surface
to cause DNA translocation through the nanopore rather than adsorption at
the graphene surface.
[0045]        Turning to methods for producing the graphene nanopore device,
a single layer of bare graphene can be synthesized by any convenient and
suitable technique, and no specific synthesis technique is required. In general,
atmospheric chemical vapor deposition with methane gas on a catalyst
material, e.g., a nickel layer, can be employed to form the graphene layer.
Raman spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy, and selected-area
diffraction studies can be employed to verify that a region of synthesized
graphene to be employed truly is single-layer in nature.
[0046]        The transfer of the graphene layer to a device structure for
arrangement as a graphene membrane can be conducted by any suitable
technique, but it is preferred that any materials employed in the transfer do
not corrupt the graphene surface. In one preferable technique, a selected
handle material is coated over the synthesized graphene layer on the catalyst
material and substrate. For many applications, it can be preferred to employ a
handle material that is easily removed from the graphene surface once
handling of the graphene layer is complete. Methyl methacrylite-methylacrylic
acid co-polymer (MMA-MAA) can be a particularly well-suited handle material.
With a layer of MMA-MAA in place on the graphene layer, the entire structure
can be cut into pieces.
[0047]        The resulting pieces can then be processed to remove the catalyst
layer and substrate material underlying the graphene layer while adhered to
the handle layer. For example, given a catalyst layer of Ni, an HCl solution
can be employed to etch away the Ni layer and free the graphene/MMA-MAA

                                          -16
composite, with distilled water employed to rinse. The graphene/MMA-MAA
composite, floating on the water, can then be captured by, e.g., a silicon wafer
coated with a SiNx layer. The central region of the silicon wafer can be etched
by KOH or other suitable etchant to produce a free-standing SiNX membrane,
e.g., of 50 x 50 gm 2 area. A focused ion beam (FIB) or other process can then
be employed to drill a suitable hole through the SiNx membrane such that it
forms a frame for the graphene layer membrane. For example, a square
window of, e.g., 200 nm x 200 nm can be formed in the nitride membrane to
produce a frame for the graphene membrane.
[0048]          With this device configuration complete, the graphene/MMA-MAA
composite can be placed over the square window in the graphene membrane,
employing, e.g., nitrogen wind (a gentle jet of nitrogen) to firmly press the
graphene against the substrate. The MMA-MAA can then be removed, e.g.,
under a slow drip of acetone, followed by immersion in acetone,
dicholoroethane, and isopropanol.
[0049]          It is preferable to remove any residues from the graphene film to
reduce the tendency of species to adhere to the graphene once configured as a
membrane. For example once the MMA-MAA is removed, the resulting
structure including a graphene membrane outstretched across a nitride frame,
as in Fig. 1, can be immersed in, e.g., a solution of KOH at room temperature
briefly, e.g., for 1 min, and then vigorously rinsed with, e.g., water, then
isopropanol, and finally ethanol. To avoid damage to the graphene membrane,
the structure can be critical-point dried. Finally, the structure can be exposed
to a selected environment, e.g., a rapid thermal annealing process at about
450 0 C in a stream of gas containing   4 %H    in He for, e.g., 20 minutes, to drive
                                              2
off any remaining hydrocarbons. To avoid recontamination, the structure
preferably is then immediately loaded into, e.g., a TEM, for further processing.
[0050]          A nanopore can then be formed in the graphene membrane.
Focused electron beam or other process can be employed to form the nanopore.

                                        -17
The nanopore diameter preferably is greater than the thickness of the
graphene membrane, to obtain the benefits of the unexpected discovery of
increased peripheral ionic current flow and increased sensitivity to change in
molecular dimension as described above. For translocation of ssDNA, a
nanopore diameter of between about 1 nm and about 20 nm can be preferred,
with a diameter of between about 1 nm and about 2 nm most preferred. For
translocation of dsDNA, a nanopore diameter of between about 2 nm and about
20 nm can be preferred, with a diameter of between about 2 nm and about 4
nm most preferred. After nanopore formation, it is preferred to keep the
graphene structure under a clean environment, e.g., a vacuum of ~10- Torr.
[0051]        To complete the nanopore molecular sensing device of Fig. 1, the
mounted graphene membrane can be inserted between two half-cells in, e.g., a
microfluidic cassette of polyether-etherketone (PEEK) or other suitable
material, sealed with, e.g., polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) gaskets. It can be
preferred that the gasket orifice be smaller than the dimensions of the
graphene membrane to completely seal off the edges of the graphene
membrane from the solutions.
                                    Example I
[0052]        This example describes an experimental demonstration of a
single-layer, bare graphene membrane. A graphene layer was synthesized by
CVD on a nickel surface. The nickel was provided as a film by E-beam
evaporation on a silicon substrate coated with a layer of SiO 2 . The nickel layer
was thermally annealed to generate a Ni film microstructure with single
crystalline grains of sizes between about a 1 gm and 20 gm. The surfaces of
these grains had atomically flat terraces and steps, similar to the surface of
single crystal substrates for epitaxial growth. With this topology, the growth
of graphene on Ni grains resembles the growth of graphene on the surface of a
single crystal substrate.

                                         -18
[0053]         In the CVD synthesis, the Ni layer was exposed to H 2 and CH 4
gases at a temperature of about 10000 C Raman spectroscopy, transmission
electron microscopy and selected area diffraction studies showed the graphene
film to be of excellent quality and mostly (87%) a mixture of one and two layer
thick domains, with domain sizes of ~10 pm. Thicker regions of three or more
graphene layers, easily distinguished by color contrast in an optical
microscope, covered only a small fraction of the total surface. If thicker regions
or domain boundaries were found, that area was discarded.
[0054]         Graphene was transferred to a carrier Si/SiNx chip by first
coating the graphene with MMA-MAA copolymer (MMA(8.5)MAA EL9,
Microchem Corp.) and cut into 0.5 nm x 0.5 mm pieces. These pieces were
immersed for ~8 hr in 1N HCl solution to etch away the Ni film and free the
graphene/polymer membrane, which was transferred to distilled water on
which the graphene/polymer floated, graphene-side down. Carrier Si chips
coated with ~250 nm thick SiNx were used to scoop up of the floating
graphene/polymer film pieces, taking care that the graphene/polymer films
were each stretched over the central region of a chip. The central region of the
chip had been microfabricated using standard anisotropic etch techniques to
leave a ~50 x 50 pm2 area of the SiNx coating as a free-standing SiNx
membrane into which a square window, ~200 nm x 200 nm, had been drilled
using a focused ion beam (FIB). A nitrogen gas wind was used to firmly press
the graphene against the chip's surface. This led to expulsion of a small
amount of liquid from under the graphene, which adhered strongly and
irreversibly to the carrier chip's SiNx coating. The polymer on top of the
graphene was removed under a slow drip of acetone, followed by subsequent
immersions in acetone, dicholoroethane, and finally isopropanol.
[0055]         To remove any residues from the graphene film, each chip was
subsequently immersed in 33 wt% solution of KOH at room temperature for 1
min and then vigorously rinsed with isopropanol and ethanol. To avoid

                                        -19
damage to the suspended free-standing portion of the graphene film, each chip
was critical-point dried. Finally, the chips were loaded into a rapid thermal
annealer and heated to 450 C in a stream of gas containing 4 % H 2 in He for 20
minutes to drive off any remaining hydrocarbons. To avoid recontamination,
the chips were immediately loaded into a transmission electron microscope for
further processing.
[0056]        There is shown in Fig. 4 an X-ray diffraction image of one of the
graphene membranes, displaying the requisite hexagonal pattern that arises
from the hexagonal packing of carbon atoms in a single graphene layer. There
is shown in Fig. 5 the Raman shift measurements for the graphene layer. The
very small G peak and very sharp 2D peak, producing a G/2D ratio of less than
1, indicates a single-layer membrane.
                                    Example II
[0057]        This example describes an experimental determination of the
conductance of the single-layer, bare graphene membrane of Example I.
[0058]        A chip-mounted single-layer graphene membrane from Example I
was inserted between the two half-cells of a custom-built microfluidic cassette
made of polyether-etherketone (PEEK). The two sides of the chip were sealed
with polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) gaskets. The opening of the gasket that
pressed against the graphene film on the Si/SiNx carrier chip had an inside
diameter of ~100 pm. Consequently, the gasket orifice was smaller than the
dimensions of the graphene membrane (0.5x0.5 mm 2 ), and completely sealed
off the graphene membrane edge from the electrolyte. On the opposite side of
the chip, the electrolyte was in contact with the graphene membrane only
through the 200 nm wide square window in SiNx membrane. Note that with
this arrangement there was a large area difference between the two graphene
membrane faces in contact with the electrolyte (a circular area of 100 pm
diameter vs. a square 200 nm    x 200 nm area).

                                          -20
[0059]         The two half-cells were first filled with ethanol to facilitate
wetting of the chip surface. The cell was then flushed with demonized water,
followed by 1M KC1 salt solution with no buffer. To avoid any potential
interaction between the graphene membrane and solutes which could affect
experimental measurements, all electrolytes used in the experiment were kept
as simple as possible and were unbuffered. All solution pHs ranged only 0.2
pH units, from 5.09 to 5.29, as measured both before and after use in the
described experiments.
[0060]         Ag/AgCl electrodes in each half-cell were used to apply an electric
potential across the graphene membrane and to measure ionic currents. The
current traces were acquired using an Axopatch 200B (Axon instruments)
amplifier, which was connected to an external 8-pole Bessel low-pass filter
(type 901P-L8L, Frequency Devices, Inc.) operating at 50 kHz. The analog
signal was digitized using a NI PCI-6259 DAQ card (National Instruments)
operating at 250 kHz sampling rate and 16-bit resolution. All experiments
were controlled through IGOR Pro software.
[0061]         Fig. 6 is a plot of experimentally-measured data of ionic current
as a function of the voltage bias applied between 3 M KC1 ionic solutions on the
cis and trans sides of the graphene membrane. Applying Ohm's Law to this
data, it is found that the ionic current resistivity is well into the 3-4 GQ range
perpendicular to the plane of the graphene membrane. This demonstrates one
discovery of the invention that the ionic resistivity perpendicular to the plane
of a graphene membrane is very large, and enables a configuration in which a
significant electrical bias can be maintained across a bare, single-layer
graphene membrane separating two voltage-biased ionic solution-filled
reservoirs.
[0062]         With a 100 mV bias applied between the two Ag/AgCl electrodes,
ionic current measurements for a variety of chloride electrolytes on the cis and
trans sides of the graphene membrane were conducted. Conductivities of the

                                          -21
electrolytes were measured using an Accumet Research AR50 conductivity
meter, which had been calibrated using conductivity standard solutions (Alfa
Aesar, product #43405, 42695, 42679). All the fluidic experiments were
performed under temperature controlled laboratory conditions, at 24'C. Table
1 shows that the graphene membrane's conductance is far below the nS level.
The highest conductances were observed for solutions with the largest atomic
size cations, Cs and Rb, correlated with a minimal hydration shell that
mediates their interaction with the graphene. This conductance was
attributed to ion transport through defect structures in the free-standing
graphene membrane.
                                            Table I
        Solution            Graphene           Sol. Conductivity Hydration energy
                         Conductance (pS)          (10-Sm-)            (eV)
         CsCI                  67±2                   1.42              3.1
         RbCI                  70±3                   1.42              3.4
          KCI                  64±2                   1.36              3.7
         NaCI                 42± 2                   1.19              4.6
          LiCI                 27±3                   0.95              5.7
[0063]          Contributions from electrochemical currents to and from the
graphene membrane were ruled out by a further experiment Here, to
investigate the contribution from electrochemical (Faradic) currents, a
separate large-area graphene film (~2x4 mm 2 ) was transferred to a glass slide
and contacted at one end with silver paint attached to a metallic clip over
which wax insulation was placed. The exposed end of the graphene film was
immersed in 1M KC1 electrolyte with a Ag/AgCl counter electrode, and the
electrochemical I-V curves were measured in the same voltage range as used in
the trans-electrode experiments. After normalizing for the surface area, it was
concluded that any electrochemical currents in the trans-electrode devices
were three orders of magnitude too small to account for the ~pA currents

                                       -22
measured through the as-grown graphene membranes in Table 1. The
observed conductances for different cations fall much faster than the solution
conductivities on going from CsCl to LiCl, suggesting an influence of graphene
cation interactions. Nevertheless there cannot be completely ruled out ionic
transport through graphene that is in contact with the chip surface.
                                   Example III
[0064]        This example describes an experimental determination of the
conductance of the single-layer, bare graphene membrane of Example I
including a nanopore.
[0065]        A single nanometer-sized nanopore was drilled through several of
the graphene membranes of Example I using a focused electron beam in a
JEOL 2010 FEG transmission electron microscope operated at 200kV
acceleration voltage. The nanopore diameter was determined by EM
visualization in a well-spread electron beam so as to keep the total electron
exposure of the graphene membrane to a minimum. A nanopore diameter of 8
nm was determined as the average of 4 measurements along different
nanopore axes, as determined from calibrated TE micrographs using
DigitalMicrograph software (Gatan, Inc.). If the chip or TEM holder had any
contaminating organic residue, amorphous carbon was seen to visibly deposit
under the electron beam. Such devices were discarded. After drilling the
nanopore, the graphene nanopore chips that were not immediately
investigated were kept under a clean vacuum of ~10- Torr.
[0066]        Figure 7 displays both a plot of ionic current as a function of
applied voltage as given above in Example II for a continuous graphene
membrane, as well as for a graphene membrane including an 8 nm-wide
nanopore. These plots demonstrate that the ionic conductivity of the graphene
membrane is increased by orders of magnitude by the nanopore.

                                          -23
[0067]        It is found that experiments with known graphene nanopore
diameters and known ionic solution conductivities enable deduction of the
bare, single-layer graphene membrane's effective insulating thickness. Ten
separate graphene membranes from Example I were processed to include
nanopore diameters ranging from 5 to 23 nm. Then the ionic conductance of
each of the ten membranes was measured with a 1 M KC1 solution provided for
both cis and trans solution reservoirs, with a conductivity of 11 S m-.   Fig. 8 is
a plot of the measured ionic conductance as a function of nanopore diameter for
the 10 membranes. The solid curve in the figure is the modeled conductance of
a 0.6 nm-thick insulating membrane, which is the best fit to the
experimentally measured conductances. The modeled conductance for a 2 nm
thick membrane is shown as a dotted line, and the modeled conductance for a
10 nm-thick membrane is shown as a dashed-dotted line, presented for
comparison.
[0068]        The ionic conductance, G, of a nanopore of diameter, d, in an
infinitely thin insulating membrane is given by:
                                Gthin = -d                                 (1)
where o = F(p, + pc)c is the conductivity of the ionic solution, F is the
Faraday constant, c is ionic concentration, and p,(c) is the mobility of
potassium (i = K) and chloride (i = Cl) ions used for a KC1 ionic solution. The
linear dependence of conductance on diameter follows from the current density
being sharply peaked at the nanopore's perimeter for an infinitely thin
membrane, as described above. For membranes thicker than the nanopore
diameter the conductivity becomes proportional to the nanopore area. For
finite but small thicknesses of membrane, computer calculations can predict
the conductance.
[0069]        As shown in the plot of Fig. 8, in agreement with Expression (1),
the conductivities of the single-layer bare graphene nanopores with diameters

                                           -24
ranging from 5 to 23 nanometers exhibited a near-linear dependence on
nanopore diameter. The modeled curve was produced based on calculations of
nanopore ionic conductivity in an idealized uncharged, insulating membrane,
as a function of nanopore diameter and membrane thickness. Points on this
curve were obtained by numerically solving the Laplace equation for the ionic
current density, with appropriate solution conductivity and boundary
conditions, and integrating over the nanopore area to get the conductivity.
These numerical simulations were performed using the COMSOL Multiphysics
finite element solver in appropriate 3-D geometry with cylindrical symmetry
along the axis of the nanopore. The full set of Poisson-Nerst-Planck equations
was solved in the steady-state regime. In the range of physical parameters of
interest, high salt concentration and small applied voltage, the numerical
simulation solution was found not to differ significantly from the solution of
the Laplace equation with fixed conductance, which has significantly less
computational penalty. The membrane thickness, L, used in this idealized
model is herein referred to as graphene's Insulating Thickness, or LIT. The
best fit to the measured nanopore conductance data in Fig. 8 yields
 LGIT = 0.6 (+0.9 - 0.6) nm, with the uncertainty determined from a least square
error analysis.
                                      Example IV
[0070]          This example describes experimental measurement of DNA
translocation through a nanopore in a single-layer, bare graphene membrane
of Example I.
[0071]          The microfluidic cell of the examples above was flushed with 3M
KC1 salt solution at pH 10.5, containing 1mM EDTA. As explained above, high
salt concentration and high pH were found to minimize DNA-graphene
interaction and thus these solution conditions can be preferred. 10kbp
restriction fragments of double-stranded lambda DNA molecules were
introduced to the cis chamber of the system. The negatively charged DNA

                                          -25
molecules were electrophoretically drawn to and driven through the nanopore
by the applied electrophoretic force of 160mV. Each insulating molecule
passing through the nanopore transiently reduced, or blocked, the ionic
conductivity of the nanopore in a manner that reflects both polymer size and
conformation. As the DNA fragments traversed the nanopore due to the
applied electrophoretic force, the translocation events were analyzed with
MATLAB using a fitting function that consisted of multiple square pulses
convoluted with an appropriate Bessel filter function to mimic the recording
conditions.
[0072]         Fig. 9 is a plot of measured ionic current through the nanopore as
a function of time for one minute from the time a voltage bias was applied
between the cis and trans reservoirs. Each drop in measured current in the
plot corresponds to a DNA translocation through the nanopore, and enables
characterization of two parameters, namely, the average current drop, or
blockade, and the duration of the blockade, which is the time it takes for the
molecule to completely translocate through the nanopore. Note the high
number of translocation events for the bare graphene membrane nanopore in
the one minute time period, indicating successful inhibition of DNA adherence
to the bare graphene membrane surface with the high pH salt solution and the
careful cleaning and handling of the graphene membrane during preparation
for the DNA translocation experiments.
[0073]         Figs. 10A, 10B, and 10C are plots of measured ionic current
through the nanopore for single translocation events. In Fig. 10A there is
demonstrated the ionic current flow blockage during a translocation of DNA in
single-file fashion. In Fig. 10B there is demonstrated the ionic current flow
blockage during translocation of DNA that has been partially folded. Finally,
in Fig. 10C there is demonstrated the ionic current flow blockage during
translocation of DNA that has been folded in half. These three experimental
translocation events typify the possible ionic current flow measurements that

                                           -26
can occur during translocation of DNA fragments, and demonstrates that DNA
folding and conformation can occur with the graphene nanopore as with
thicker conventional solid state nanopores.
[0074]        A 5 nm-wide nanopore was formed in a separate graphene
membrane from Example I and double-stranded DNA translocation
experiments were conducted for the 3 M KC1 solution of pH 10.4. Each single
molecule translocation event can be characterized by two parameters: the
average current drop, or blockade, and the duration of the blockade, which is
the time it takes for the molecule to completely translocate through the pore.
Fig. 11 is a scatter plot showing the value of current drop and blockade
duration for each of 400 double stranded DNA single molecule translocations
through the graphene nanopore. The characteristic shape of this data is
similar to that obtained in silicon nitride nanopore experiments where almost
all the events, folded and unfolded, fall near a line of constant electronic
charge deficit (ecd), i.e., regardless of how the otherwise identical molecules
are folded, each blocks the same amount of ionic charge movement through the
nanopore during the total time it takes each molecule to move through the
nanopore. Here as in the previous experiment it is demonstrated that the
double stranded DNA passed through the nanopore uninhibited by sticking to
the graphene surface. The few events that are encircled in the plot do not
satisfy this condition and their long translocation times indicate graphene
DNA interactions, which slow their translocation through the nanopore.
[0075]        In the plot of Fig. 11 the insets show two single-molecule
translocation events. In the right-hand event a molecule passed through the
nanopore in an unfolded linear fashion, as in the example of Fig. 10A. In the
left-hand event the molecule was folded over on itself when it entered the
nanopore as in the example of Fig. 10B, increasing the current blockade for a
short time.

                                         -27
[0076]        Measurements of nanopore conductance during DNA
translocation events can be employed as an alternative method for evaluating
the effective insulting thickness of the graphene membrane, LIT. The
experimentally- determined open-nanopore and DNA-blocked nanopore
conductance was compared with that determined by numerical solutions,
where the membrane thickness and the nanopore diameter are the fitting
parameters. Here a DNA molecule was modeled as a long, stiff, insulating rod
of diameter 2 nm which threads through the center of a nanopore. For lateral
resolution calculations, there was added a step of 2.2 nm in diameter to the
DNA model, and the change in the ionic current was calculated as the
discontinuity translocates through the center of the nanopore. The total ionic
current was calculated by integrating current density across the diameter of
the nanopore.
[0077]        Using the observed mean current blockade, AI =1.24 ± 0.08 nA
during translocation of unfolded double-stranded DNA of diameter 2.0 nm, and
the observed conductance of the nanopore G =105 +1 nS absent DNA, the
graphene membrane insulating thickness was determined as LIT = 0.6 ± 0.5
nm, in excellent agreement with the value deduced above from open nanopore
measurements alone, as discussed above. The nanopore diameter
 dGIT = 4.6±0.4 nm deduced from these calculations also agrees with the
geometric diameter of 5 ± 0.5 nm obtained from a TEM of the nanopore.
[0078]        The best fit value LIT = 0.6 nm from both experiments agrees with
molecular dynamics simulations showing the graphene-water distance to be
0.31 - 0.34 nm on each side of the membrane. LIT might also be influenced by
the typical presence of immobilized water molecules and adsorbed ions in the
Stern layer. On the other hand, theoretical studies argue against any
immobilized water layer on graphene, and experimental measurements
support an anomalously high slip between water and an internal curved
carbon nanotube surface. Although very little is actually known about the

                                         -28
surface chemistry of specifically adsorbed ions on bare single graphene layers,
measurements of the ionic current through the inner volume of carbon
nanotubes with diameters less than 1 nm may indicate that ions are not
immobilized on these graphitic surfaces at all. The sub-nanometer values for
LIT   determined here support this view.
[0079]          The extremely small value for LIT obtained here suggests that
nanopores in single-layer, bare graphene membranes are uniquely optimal for
discerning spatial and/or chemical molecular structure along the length of a
molecule as it passes through the nanopore. Numerical modeling of the
molecular detection resolution obtainable by such a nanopore can be
accomplished based on the determination of graphene membrane insulating
thickness, LIT.
[0080]          In an example of such a model, there is specified a long,
insulating, 2.2 nm-diameter cylinder that symmetrically translocates through
the center of a 2.4 nm-diameter nanopore. At one position along its length, the
cylinder diameter changes discontinuously from 2.2 nm to 2.0 nm. Solving for
the conductance for this geometry as the discontinuity passes through the
pore, there is obtained the data shown in the plot of Fig. 12. The decreasing
ionic current flow blockade, corresponding to increasing nanopore conductance,
is clearly seen as the large diameter portion of the molecular cylinder exits the
nanopore. The results of calculations for two LIT values are shown. For the
conservative LIT = 1.5 nm, the spatial resolution, defined as the distance over
which the conductivity changes from 75% of its greatest value to 25% of that
value, is given by   dZGIT= 7.5 A, whereas the best-fit value LGIT = 0.6 nm leads to
 gZGIT = 3.5 A.
[0081]          There can be concluded both from the experiments detailed above
as well as from the modeling described above that a nanopore in a bare single
layer graphene membrane is inherently capable of probing molecules with sub-

                                        -29
nanometer resolution. Functionalizing the graphene nanopore boundary or
observing its local in-plane ionic conductivity during translocations can provide
additional or alternative means of further increasing the resolution of this
system.
[0082]        From the description above, it has been demonstrated that an
atomically thin sheet of bare, single-layer graphene can be fabricated into a
self-supporting membrane including a nanopore, of a diameter larger than the
membrane thickness, for sensing molecular translocation events through the
nanopore. As a bare, single layer, the thickness of the graphene membrane is
minimized and is safely in the short-length nanopore regime in which
peripheral ionic current flow is maximized and in which the nanopore
conductivity as a function of nanopore length is maximized. The very short
nanopore length provided by the graphene membrane also makes it possible
for a graphene nanopore to sense closely-spaced monomers in a polymer and
thus to sequentially resolve the different ionic blockages caused by each
monomer in, for example, a strand of a DNA polymer.
[0083]        Based on these considerations, it is recognized that if
technological advances enable such, a solid state membrane of an alternative
material can be substituted for the single-layer, bare graphene membrane
layer. Specifically, a solid state membrane having a thickness that is less than
about 1 nm and that can mechanically support a nanopore extending through
the membrane thickness with a diameter that is greater than the membrane
thickness can be employed to obtain the molecular sensing capability described
above, and in particular, the DNA sensing capability. It is to be understood
that the requirements for resistivity perpendicular to the plane of the
membrane, the mechanical integrity, and other characteristics described above
can be required to enable the arrangement of the membrane material between
cis and trans reservoirs for molecular translocation though the membrane
nanopore. Ionic current blockage measurement or other electrical

                                         -30
measurement can be employed as-suitable for a given application and no
particular measurement technique is required.
[0084]        Extending this understanding further, it is recognized that
alternative configurations to a nanopore can be employed. For example, a
membrane or other structure in which there can be produced an aperture
having a very sharp or pointed edge location at which the aperture diameter is
reduced to the nanometer scale, and which is larger than the thickness of the
location of the diameter reduction, can also be employed. Thus, any solid state
structural configuration in which an aperture can be configured meeting these
requirements can be employed to achieve the advantages for molecular sensing
described above.
[0085]        It is recognized, of course, that those skilled in the art may make
various modifications and additions to the embodiments described above
without departing from the spirit and scope of the present contribution to the
art. Accordingly, it is to be understood that the protection sought to be
afforded hereby should be deemed to extend to the subject matter claims and
all equivalents thereof fairly within the scope of the invention.
[0086]        We claim:

                                   -31
1.     A graphene nanopore sensor comprising:
       a substantially bare, single-layer graphene membrane including a
 nanopore extending through a thickness of the graphene membrane
 from a first graphene membrane surface to a second graphene
 membrane surface opposite the first graphene membrane surface;
       a connection from the first graphene membrane surface to a first
 reservoir to provide, at the first graphene membrane surface, a species
 in an ionic solution to the nanopore;
       a connection from the second graphene membrane surface to a
 second reservoir to collect the species and ionic solution after
 translocation of the species and ionic solution through the nanopore
 from the first graphene membrane surface to the second graphene
 membrane surface; and
       an electrical circuit connected on opposite sides of the nanopore to
measure flow of ionic current through the nanopore in the graphene
membrane.
2.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the electrical
circuit is connected between the first and second ionic solutions to
measure flow of ionic current through the nanopore in the graphene
membrane.
3.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the electrical
circuit includes an electrical current monitor connected for measuring
time-dependent ionic current flow through the nanopore.
4.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 3 wherein the electrical
current monitor is connected for measuring time-dependent ionic

                                 -32
current flow blockages indicative of species translocation through the
nanopore.
5.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 further comprising an
electrode disposed in each of the first and second ionic solutions for
applying a voltage across the nanopore to electrophoretically cause
species translocation through the nanopore.
6.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the ionic
solution is characterized by a salt content that is greater than about 2
M.
7.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the ionic
solution is characterized by a pH that is greater than about 8.
8.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the ionic
solution is KCl.
9.     The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is greater than a graphene membrane
thickness between the first and second surfaces of the graphene
membrane through which the nanopore extends.
10.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is between about 1 nm and about 10
nm.
11.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is between about 1 nm and about 5 nm.

                                  -33
12.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is less than about 3 nm.
13.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is less than about 2.5 nm.
14.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the graphene
membrane is characterized by a thickness that is less than about 2 nm.
15.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the graphene
membrane is characterized by a thickness that is less than about 1 nm.
16.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the graphene
membrane is characterized by a thickness that is less than about 0.7
nm.
17.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is no more than about 5% larger than a
diameter characteristic of the species in the ionic solution translocating
through the nanopore.
18.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the graphene
membrane is mechanically supported at edges of the membrane by a
membrane frame structure.
19.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the species in
the ionic solution to translocate through the nanopore comprises
biomolecules.

                                  -34
20.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the species in
the ionic solution to translocate through the nanopore comprises DNA
molecules.
21.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the species in
the ionic solution to translocate through the nanopore comprises RNA
molecules.
22.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the species in
the ionic solution to translocate through the nanopore comprises
oligonucleotides.
23.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the species in
the ionic solution to translocate through the nanopore comprises
polymer molecules.
24.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 1 wherein the species in
the ionic solution to translocate though the nanopore comprises
nucleotides.
25.    A graphene nanopore sensor comprising:
       a substantially bare, single-layer graphene membrane including a
 nanopore extending through a thickness of the graphene membrane
 from a first graphene membrane surface to a second graphene
 membrane surface opposite the first graphene surface and having a
 diameter that is less than about 3 nm and greater than the graphene
 thickness; and
       an electrical circuit connected on opposite sides of the nanopore to
measure flow of ionic current through the nanopore in the graphene
membrane.

                                  -35
26.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 25 further comprising:
       a connection from the first graphene membrane surface to a first
 reservoir to provide, at the first graphene membrane surface, polymer
 molecules in an ionic solution to the nanopore;
       a connection from the second graphene membrane surface to a
 second reservoir to collect the polymer molecules and the ionic solution
 after translocation of the polymer molecules and the ionic solution
 through the nanopore from the first graphene membrane surface to the
 second graphene membrane surface.
27.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 25 wherein the electrical
current monitor is connected for measuring time-dependent ionic
current flow blockages indicative of polymer molecule translocation
through the nanopore.
28.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 26 further comprising an
electrode disposed in each of the first and second ionic solutions for
applying a voltage across the nanopore to electrophoretically cause
species translocation of the nanopore.
29.    The graphene nanopore sensor of claim 25 wherein the ionic
solution is characterized by a salt content that is greater than about 2 M
and a pH that is greater than about 8.
30.    A nanopore sensor comprising:
       a solid state membrane having a thickness, between a first
 membrane surface and a second membrane surface opposite the first
 membrane surface, that is less than about 1 nm;

                                  -36
       a nanopore extending through the membrane thickness between
 the first and second membrane surfaces and having a diameter that is
 greater than the membrane thickness;
       a connection from the first membrane surface to a first reservoir
 to provide, at the first membrane surface, a species in an ionic solution
 to the nanopore;
       a connection from the second membrane surface to a second
 reservoir to collect the species and ionic solution after translocation of
 the species and ionic solution through the nanopore from the first
 membrane surface to the second membrane surface; and
       an electrical circuit connected to monitor translocation of the
species in the ionic solution through the nanopore in the solid state
membrane.
31.    The nanopore sensor of claim 30 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is between about 1 nm and about 10
nm.
32.    The nanopore sensor of claim 30 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is between about 1 nm and about 5 nm.
33.    The nanopore sensor of claim 30 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is less than about 3 nm.
34.    The nanopore sensor of claim 30 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is less than about 2.5 nm.
35.    The nanopore sensor of claim 30 wherein the nanopore is
characterized by a diameter that is no more than about 5% larger than a

                                           37
diameter characteristic of the species in the ionic solution translocating
through the nanopore.
36.     A method for evaluating a polymer molecule comprising:
        providing in an ionic solution a polymer molecule to be evaluated;
        translocating the polymer molecule in the ionic solution through a
 nanopore in a substantially bare, single-layer graphene membrane from
 a first graphene membrane surface to a second graphene mernbrane
 surface opposite the first graphene surface; and
        monitoring the flow of ionic current through the nanopore in the
graphene membrane.
37.     The method of claim 36 wherein monitoring the flow of ionic
current comprises measuring time-dependent ionic current flow
blockage indicative of polymer molecule translocation through the
nanopore.
38.     The method of claim 36 further comprising applying a voltage
across the nanopore to electrophoretically cause the polymer molecule to
translocate through the nanopore.
                       President and Fellows of Harvard College
                Patent Attorneys for the ApplIcantfNominated Person
                              SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
