                                         ABSTRACT
A ball component of a ball-and-socket joint prosthesis comprising a spherical head, a
stem, and a collar coupling the head to the stem, wherein the stem comprises a web
structure, the web structure comprising a space truss comprising a plurality of planar
truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes, wherein the web structure is
configured to interface with bone tissue, and wherein the web structure extends
throughout the central portion of the stem.

                   13/20
0                                 0n
         C)I
  .0
  cy)I
        oo         II
               cul
               Q)I
                       I IO
                       I       CI
       co+ LO0
                            +L

   TITLE: PROSTHETIC IMPLANT FOR BALL AND SOCKET JOINTS AND
                                    METHOD OF USE
                                     BACKGROUND
Related Application
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013216947, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the
disclosure of that application is included herein. However, reference may be made to
the specification of that application as filed to gain further understanding of the
invention claimed herein.
1.      Field of the Invention
[0002] The present      invention relates   generally to medical devices        and, more
specifically, to implants.
2.      Description of the Related Art
[0003] Implants may be used in human and/or animals to support and/or secure one or
more bones. For example, implants may be used in the spine to support and/or replace
damaged tissue between the vertebrae in the spine.         Once implanted between two
vertebrae, the implant may provide support between the two vertebrae and bone growth
may take place around and through the implant to at least partially fuse the two
vertebrae for long-term support. Implants may include relatively large rims with solid
material that may cover, for example, 50% of the area that interacts with the endplate.
The rim may provide a contact area between the implant and the vertebral endplates.
Large rims may have several drawbacks. For example, large rims may impede bone
growth and reduce the size of the bone column fusing the superior and inferior vertebral
bodies.
[0004] Spinal implants may include open channels through the center of the supporting
rims in a superior/inferior direction. The open channel design may require members of
the implant that separate the rims that interact with the vertebral endplates to absorb the
compressive forces between the vertebral endplates. This may increase the pressure on
smaller areas of the vertebral endplates and may potentially lead to stress risers in the
vertebral endplates. Further, while bone graft material is often used in conjunction with
implants to encourage bone growth, the open column design of implants may reduce the

likelihood of bone graft material from securing itself to the implant which could result
in a bio-mechanical cooperation that is not conducive to promoting good fusion.
[0005] Bone graft material may be packed into the implant in a high-pressure state to
prevent bone graft material from exiting the implant while being placed between the
vertebral endplates. The high-pressure state may also reduce the potential for the bone
graft material loosening due to motion between the implant and the vertebral endplates
or compressive forces experienced during settling of the implant. In addition, a high
pressure environment may allow the bone graft material to re-model and fuse at greater
strength. High-pressure states, however, may be difficult to create and maintain for the
bone graft material in an implant.
                                       SUMMARY
[0006] The present invention provides a ball component of a ball-and-socket joint
prosthesis comprising a spherical head, a stem, and a collar coupling the head to the
stem, wherein the stem comprises a web structure, the web structure comprising a space
truss comprising a plurality of planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at
nodes, wherein the web structure is configured to interface with bone tissue, and
wherein the web structure extends throughout the central portion of the stem.
[0007] The present invention also provides a ball component of a ball-and-socket
prosthesis comprising a head and a stem, wherein the stem comprises one or more truss
structures, the truss structures comprising three or more struts joined at a node, wherein
the one or more truss structures are configured to interface with bone tissue such that
the truss structures are fully embedded into the bone.
[0008] The present invention further provides a ball-and socket prosthesis comprising:
         a cup; and
         a ball component comprising a spherical head and a stem, wherein the stem
comprises one or more truss structures, the truss structures comprising three or more
struts joined at a node, wherein the one or more truss structures are configured to
interface with bone tissue such that the truss structures are fully embedded into the
bone.
[0009] Various embodiments of implant systems and related apparatus, and methods of
operating the same are described herein.        In various embodiments, provided is an
implant for interfacing with a bone structure includes a web structure, including a space

truss, configured to interface with human bone tissue. The space truss includes two or
more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes.
 [0010] In certain embodiments, an implant includes a web structure configured to
interface with human bone tissue. The implant includes a space truss and an external
truss. The space truss includes two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts
joined at nodes. The external truss includes one or more planar trusses having two or
more adjacent planar truss units that lie in substantially the same plane.
 [0011] In some embodiments, the planar truss units include a planar triangular truss unit
having three substantially straight struts and three nodes in a triangular configuration.
The space truss may include a plurality of planar truss units coupled to one another,
wherein each of the truss units lies in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane
of an adjacent truss unit that shares at least one strut.
 [0012] In some embodiments, at least one strut passes through the central portion of the
implant. At least one strut may connect two or more opposing vertices of the square
shaped common truss unit. At least one strut may connect two opposed vertices of the
octahedron.
 [0013] In some embodiments, the implant includes an external truss structure.            The
external truss structure includes one or more planar trusses comprising two or more
planar truss units disposed proximate an exterior of the space truss. The external truss
structure includes at least one of a top, a bottom, or a side portion of the web structure.
 [0014] The implant may include top and bottom faces wherein at least a portion of the
top and bottom faces are angled relative to one another to provide lordosis. The lordosis
may be configured to be greater than approximately four degrees. The implant further
includes a top external truss structure portion and a bottom external truss structure
portion angled relative to one another such that a thickness of an anterior or a posterior
region of the implant is greater than a thickness of the other of the anterior or the
posterior region of the implant.
 [0015] The web structure is configured to provide support along at least four planes of
the implant to bear against tensile, compressive, and shear forces acting on the implant.
 [0016] In some embodiments, the space truss comprises truss units forming a plurality
of tetrahedrons. At least two of the plurality of tetrahedrons are coupled together via
one or more struts connecting two respective vertices on each of the two tetrahedrons.

The space truss may include a plurality of tetrahedrons, and wherein at least two of the
tetrahedrons share a common truss unit to form a hexahedron.         The space truss may
include at least five truss units forming a pyramid. At least two of the pyramids are
arranged opposing one another such that they share a square shaped common truss unit
at their base to form an octahedron.
 [0017] The implant may be configured for use as a spinal implant, a corpectomy device,
in a hip replacement, in a knee replacement, in a long bone reconstruction scaffold, foot
and ankle implant, shoulder implant, a joint replacement or in a cranio-maxifacial
implant.
 [0018] In some embodiments, the plurality of struts of the web structure have a
diameter less than approximately five millimeters. In some embodiments, the struts that
create the space truss comprises a biologic, growth factor or antimicrobial coupled
thereto.
 [0019] The implant may include an implant body comprising one or more contact faces
configured to be disposed at or near a bony structure during use, wherein the web
structure is disposed on the contact surface, and wherein the web structure includes two
or more struts extending from the contact surface, and wherein two or more of the struts
define an opening configured to enable bone through growth through the opening.
 [0020] In some embodiments, a method is provided that includes accessing an
intersomatic space and inserting an implant into the intersomatic space. The implant
includes a web structure that includes a space truss to interface with human bone tissue.
The space truss includes two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts
joined at nodes.
 [0021] In certain embodiments, a method of making an implant includes storing a three
dimensional model of the implant on a storage medium, applying a layer of material to a
support, moving an electron beam relative to the support to melt a portion of the
material, wherein the electron beam is moved in a pattern determined from the three
dimensional model of at least a portion of the implant, and removing the implant from
the support. The implant includes a web structure that includes a space truss to interface
with human bone tissue. The space truss includes two or more planar truss units having
a plurality of struts joined at nodes.

 [0022] In some embodiments, provided is an implant that includes an implant body
having one or more contact faces to be disposed at or near a bony structure, and a truss
structure coupled to the contact face. The truss structure is to be disposed adjacent the
bony structure during use, and includes two or more struts extending from the contact
surface, wherein two or more of the struts define an opening to enable bone through
growth through the opening.
 [0023] In certain embodiments, provided is a method that includes slitting at least a
portion of a bony structure to form one or more slits extending from a face of the bony
structure into the bony structure, and inserting at least a portion of a truss structure of an
implant into at least one of the slits. The implant includes an implant body having one
or more contact faces to be disposed at or near the bony structure and the truss structure
coupled to the contact face. The truss structure is to be disposed adjacent the bony
structure during use, and the truss structure includes two or more struts extending from
the contact surface, wherein two or more of the struts define an opening to enable bone
through growth through the opening.
 [0024] In some embodiments, provided is a foot and/or ankle implant, including a web
structure having a space truss with two or more planar truss units having a plurality of
struts joined at nodes. The web structure is configured to be disposed in a foot and/or
ankle.
 [0025] In certain embodiments, provided is method that includes providing an opening
in a foot and/or ankle of a human and installing, into the opening a web structure
including a space truss having two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts
joined at nodes.
 [0026] In certain embodiments, provided is a method that includes installing, between
two separated bone portions, a web structure comprising a space truss comprising two
or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0027] A better understanding of the present invention may be obtained when the
following detailed description is considered in conjunction with the following drawings,
in which:
 [0028] FIGS. 1A-1B illustrate views of an implant with lordosis, according to an
embodiment;

[0029] FIGS. 2A-2D illustrate views of an implant without lordosis, according to an
embodiment;
[0030] FIGS. 3A-3B illustrate a web structure formed with triangular-shaped building
blocks, according to an embodiment;
[0031] FIGS. 4A-4B illustrate a top structure of an internal web structure of the
implant, according to an embodiment;
[0032] FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate progressive sectioned views of the implant showing the
internal structure of the implant, according to an embodiment;
[0033] FIG. 5D illustrates an isometric view of the implant, according to an
embodiment;
[0034] FIGS. 6A-6D illustrate another configuration of the web structure, according to
an embodiment;
[0035] FIG. 7A illustrates a web structure formed with two pyramids, according to an
embodiment;
[0036] FIG. 7B illustrates a web structure formed with two heptahedrons, according to
an embodiment;
[0037] FIG. 7C illustrates a web structure formed with two dodecahedrons, according to
an embodiment;
[0038] FIGS. 8A-8D illustrate different web structure building blocks, according to
various embodiments;
[0039] FIG. 9 illustrates a random web structure, according to an embodiment;
[0040] FIG. 10 illustrates a flowchart of a method for making an implant, according to
an embodiment;
[0041] FIG. 11 illustrates a flowchart of a method for implanting a spinal implant,
according to an embodiment;
[0042] FIG. 12 depicts an embodiment of a femoral component of a hip prosthesis;
[0043] .FIG. 13 depicts an embodiment of a hip prosthesis implanted in a subject; and
[0044] FIG. 14 depicts an alternate embodiment of a hip prosthesis implanter in a
subject.
[0045] While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative
forms, specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and
will herein be described in detail. It should be understood, however, that the drawings

and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular
form disclosed, but on the contrary, the intention is to cover all modifications,
equivalents, and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention
as defined by the appended claims. Note, the headings are for organizational purposes
only and are not meant to be used to limit or interpret the description or claims.
               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
[0046] FIGS. 1A-1B illustrate views of implant 100, according to an embodiment.
Implant 100 may be used, for example, in anterior lumbar inter-body fusion (ALIF) or
posterior lumbar inter-body fusion (PLIF). In some embodiments, implant 100 may
include a web structure 101 with one or more trusses 102 (e.g., planar and space
trusses).   Implant 100 and its web structure 101 may be used in various types of
implants for humans or animals such as spinal implants (e.g., see FIGS. 1A-2D and 5A
6D)), corpectomy devices (e.g., see FIGS. 2C-2D), knee replacements (e.g., see FIG.
14), hip replacements (e.g., see FIG. 15), long bone reconstruction scaffolding (e.g., see
FIG. 16), and cranio-maxifacial implants (e.g., see FIG. 17).         Other implant uses are
also contemplated.
[0047] As used herein a "truss" is a structure having one or more elongate struts
connected at joints referred to as nodes. Trusses may include variants of a pratt truss,
king post truss, queen post truss, town's lattice truss, planar truss, space truss, and/or a
vierendeel truss (other trusses may also be used). Each unit (e.g., region having a
perimeter defined by the elongate struts) may be referred to as a "truss unit."
[0048] As used herein a "planar truss" is a truss structure where all of the struts and
nodes lie substantially within a single two-dimensional plane.            A planar truss, for
example, may include one or more "truss units" where each of the struts is a
substantially straight member such that the entirety of the struts and the nodes of the one
or more truss units lie in substantially the same plane. A truss unit where each of the
struts is a substantially straight member such that the entirety of the struts and the nodes
of the truss units lie in substantially the same plane is referred to as a "planar truss unit."
[0049] As used herein a "space truss" is a truss having struts and nodes that are not
substantially confined in a single two-dimensional plane. A space truss may include
two or more planar trusses (e.g., planar truss units) wherein at least one of the two or
more planar trusses lies in a plane that is not substantially parallel to a plane of at least

one or more of the other two or more planar trusses. A space truss, for example, may
include two planar truss units adjacent to one another (e.g., sharing a common strut)
wherein each of the planar truss units lie in separate planes that are angled with respect
to one another (e.g., not parallel to one another).
[0050] As used herein a "triangular truss" is a structure having one or more triangular
units that are formed by three straight struts connected at joints referred to as nodes.
For example, a triangular truss may include three straight elongate strut members that
are coupled to one another at three nodes to from a triangular shaped truss. As used
herein a "planar triangular truss" is a triangular truss structure where all of the struts and
nodes lie substantially within a single two-dimensional plane. Each triangular unit may
be referred to as a "triangular truss unit." A triangular truss unit where each of the struts
is a substantially straight member such that the entirety of the struts and the nodes of the
triangular truss units lie in substantially the same plane is referred to as a "planar
triangular truss unit."     As used herein a "triangular space truss" is a space truss
including one or more triangular truss units.
[0051] As used herein a "quadrilateral truss" is a structure having one or more
quadrilateral units that are formed by four straight struts connected at joints referred to
as nodes. For example, a quadrilateral truss may include four straight elongate strut
members that are coupled to four nodes to from a quadrilateral shaped truss. As used
herein a "planar quadrilateral truss" is a quadrilateral truss structure where all of the
struts and nodes lie substantially within a single two-dimensional plane.                Each
quadrilateral unit may be referred to as a "quadrilateral truss unit." A quadrilateral truss
unit where each of the struts is a substantially straight member such that the entirety of
the struts and the nodes of the triangular truss units lie in substantially the same plane is
referred to as a "planar quadrilateral truss unit." As used herein a "quadrilateral space
truss" is a space truss including one or more quadrilateral truss units.
[0052] In various embodiments, the trusses 102 of web structure 101 may include one
or more planar truss units (e.g., planar triangular truss units) constructed with straight or
curved/arched     members    (e.g.,   struts) connected at     various nodes.       In some
embodiments, the trusses 102 may be micro-trusses.           A "micro-truss" may include a
truss having dimensions sufficiently small enough such that a plurality of micro-trusses
can be assembled or other wise coupled to one another to form a web structure having a

small enough overall dimension (e.g., height, length and width) such that substantially
all of the web structure can be inserted into an implant location (e.g., between two
vertebra). Such a web structure and its micro-trusses can thus be employed to receive
and distribute throughout the web structure loading forces of the surrounding tissue
(e.g., vertebra, bone, or the like).        In one embodiment, the diameters of the struts
forming the micro-truss may be between about 0.25 millimeters (mm) and 5mm in
diameter (e.g., a diameter of about 0.25mm, 0.5 mm, 0.6 mm, 0.7 mm, 0.8 mm, 0.9 mm,
1 mm, 2 mm, 3 mm, 4 mm, or 5 mm). In one embodiment, a micro-truss may have an
overall length or width of less than about 1 inch (e.g., a length less than about 0.9 in, 0.8
in, 0.7 in, 0.6 in, 0.5 in, 0.4 in, 0.3 in, 0.2 in, 0.1 in).
[0053] As depicted, for example, in FIGS. 1A-1B, web structure 101 may extend
throughout implant 100 (including the central portion of implant 100) to provide support
throughout implant 100.        Trusses 102 of implant 100 may thus support implant 100
against tensile, compressive, and shear forces.          The web structure of trusses 102 may
also reinforce implant 100 along multiple planes. The external truss structure may, for
example, provide support against tensile and compressive forces acting vertically
through the implant, and the internal web structure may provide support against tensile,
compressive, and shear forces along the various planes containing the respective trusses.
In some embodiments, the web structure includes trusses 102 that form a triangulated
web structure with multiple struts (e.g., struts 103a-f) (struts are generally referred to
herein as "struts 103").
[0054] In one embodiment, web structure 101 of the implant 100 may include an
internal web structure that is at least partially enclosed by an external truss structure.
For example, in one embodiment, web structure 101 may include an internal web
structure that includes a space truss having at least a portion of the space truss
surrounded by an external truss structure that includes one or more planar trusses
formed with a plurality of planar truss units that lie substantially in a single plane. FIG.
1A depicts an embodiment of implant 100 and web structure 101 that includes internal
web structure 104 and an external truss structure 105.          In the illustrated embodiment,
internal web structure 104 includes a space truss defined by a plurality of planar truss
units 106 coupled at an angle with respect to one another such that each adjacent truss
unit is not co-planar with each adjacent truss units. Adjacent truss units may include

two truss units that share a strut and the respective two nodes at the ends of the shared
strut.
[0055] In one embodiment, external truss structure 105 includes a plurality of planar
trusses that are coupled about an exterior, interior or other portion of the implant. For
example, in the illustrated embodiment, the external truss structure 105 includes a series
of planar trusses 107a,b that are coupled to one another. Each planar truss 107a,b
includes a plurality of planar truss units 108 that are coupled to one another and lie
substantially in the same plane. As depicted, planar truss 107a includes four triangular
planar truss units 108 having a common vertex 110 and arranged to form a generally
rectangular structure that lies in a single common plane 109. In other words, the four
truss units are arranged to form a substantially rectangular structure having "X" shaped
struts extend from one comer of the rectangular structure to the opposite corner of the
rectangular structure. As depicted, the substantially rectangular structure may include a
trapezoidal shape. As described in more detail below, the trapezoidal shape may be
conducive to providing an implant including lordosis. Lordosis may include an angled
orientation of surfaces (e.g., top and bottom) of an implant that provides for differences
in thickness in anterior and posterior regions of the implant such that the implant is
conducive for supporting the curvature of a vertebral column.
[0056] In one embodiment, the planar trusses that form the external truss are coupled to
one another, and are aligned along at least one axis. For example, in FIG. 1A, planar
truss section 107a is coupled to an adjacent planar truss 107b. Planer truss sections
107a,b are not parallel in all directions.    Planar truss sections 107a,b are, however,
arranged parallel to one another in at least one direction (e.g., the vertical direction
between the top and the bottom faces of implant 100). For example, planar trusses
107a,b and the additional planar trusses are arranged in series with an angle relative to
one another to form a generally circular or polygon shaped enclosure having
substantially vertical walls defined by the planar trusses and the planar truss units
arranged in the vertical direction.
[0057] In one embodiment, the external truss portion may encompass the sides, top,
and/or bottom of the implant.       For example, in one embodiment, the external truss
portion may include a top region, side regions, and/or a bottom region. FIG. 1A depicts
an embodiment of implant 100 wherein external truss portion 105 includes a top 111,

bottom 112 and a side region 113. As described above, side region 113 includes a series
of planar trusses arranged vertically to form a circular/polygon ring-like structure that
completely or at least partially surrounds the perimeter of the space truss disposed in the
central portion of implant 100. In the depicted embodiment, top portion 111 of external
truss structure 105 includes a plurality of truss units coupled to one another to form a
planar truss that cover substantially all of the top region of internal web structure 104.
In the illustrated embodiment, the top portion 111 spans entirely the region between top
edges of the side portion 113 of external truss structure 105.             In the illustrated
embodiment, top portion 111 is formed from a single planar truss that includes a
plurality of truss units that lie in substantially the same plane. In other words, the planar
truss of top portion 111 defines a generally flat surface. Although difficult to view in
FIG. 1, the underside of implant 100 may include the bottom portion 112 having a
configuration similar to that of the top portion 111.        In other embodiments, external
truss structure 105 may include a partial side, top and/or bottom external truss portions.
Or may not include one or more of the side, top and bottom external truss portions. For
example, as described in more detail below, FIG. 2C depicts an embodiment of implant
100 than includes an internal web structure 104 that includes a space truss, and does not
have an external truss structure.
[0058] In some embodiments, implant 100 may include a biocompatible material such
as a titanium alloy (e.g., yTitanium Aluminides), cobalt, chromium, stainless steel,
Polyetheretherketone (PEEK), ceramics, etc. Other materials are also contemplated. In
some embodiments, implant 100 may be made through a rapid prototyping process (e.g.,
electron beam melting (EBM) process) as further described below. Other processes are
also possible (e.g., injection molding, casting, sintering, selective laser sintering (SLS),
Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS), etc). SLS may include laser-sintering of high
performance polymers such as that provided by EOS of North America, Inc.,
headquartered in Novi, Michigan, U.S.A. High-performance polymers may include
various forms of PEEK (e.g., HP3 having a tensile strength of up to about 95 mega
Pascal (MPa) and a Young's modulus of up to about 4400 MPa and continuous
operating temperature between about 180 'C (356 F) and 260 'C (500 'F)).                Other
materials may include PA 12 and PA 11 provided by EOS of North America, Inc.

[0059] As described above, in some embodiments the trusses may form a triangulated
web structure with multiple struts 103.       The web structure may include a pattern of
geometrical building blocks. In some embodiments, the geometrical building blocks
may include triangles.      In some embodiments, the geometrical building blocks may
include polyhedrons such as tetrahedrons, pentahedrons, hexahedrons, heptahedrons,
pyramids, octahedrons, dodecahedrons, icosahedrons, and spherical fullerenes. In some
embodiments, such as those described above, the space truss of the web structure may
connect multiple midpoints of tetrahedron building blocks and include a regular pattern
of tetrahedron blocks arranged adjacent one another. In some embodiments, the web
structure may not include a pattern of geometrical building blocks. For example, FIG. 9
illustrates an irregular pattern of struts 103 that may be used in implant 100. Other web
structures are also contemplated.
[0060] FIGS. 3A-3B illustrate a web structure formed with triangular-shaped building
blocks, according to an embodiment. The triangular shaped building blocks may form
tetrahedrons 300a,b that may also be used as building blocks (other patterns from the
triangles are also contemplated).      Other building blocks are also contemplated (e.g.,
square-shaped building blocks). In some embodiments, a web structure may include a
single tetrahedron, such as tetrahedron 300a or 300b alone or in combination with one
or more other web structures. In some embodiments, web structure 313 may include
two or more tetrahedrons 300a,b. Tetrahedron 300a may include four triangular faces in
which three of the four triangles meet at each vertex.         In some embodiments, two
tetrahedrons 300a and 300b may be placed together at two adjacent faces to form web
structure 313 with a hexahedron-shaped frame (including six faces).           Hexahedron
shaped web structure 313 may include first vertex 301, second vertex 309, third vertex
303, fourth vertex 305, and fifth vertex 307. Common plane 311 may be shared by two
tetrahedrons (e.g., common plane 311 may include third vertex 303, fourth vertex 305,
and fifth vertex 307) to form a hexahedron with first vertex 301 and second vertex 309
spaced away from common plane 311. As depicted, the center portion of the triangular
shaped building blocks may have a void region in their center that does not include any
additional members (e.g., no members other than the struts forming the triangular
shaped building blocks) extending there through.

[0061] As seen in FIG. 3B, in some embodiments, multiple hexahedron-shaped web
structures 313 may be arranged in a side-by-side manner. Two web structures 313 of
implant 100 may be connected via their first vertices 301a,b through strut 103r and
connected via their second vertices 309a,b through strut 103t.        Similarly, two web
structures 313 may be connected via their first vertices 301c,d through strut 103p and
connected via their second vertices 309c,d through strut 103s. Other connections are
also possible.    For example, web structures 313 may connect directly through side
vertices (e.g., directly through corresponding vertices (such as vertices 303a,b) and/or
share a common strut (such as strut 103u)) and/or through a side face (e.g., side faces
111a,b). Other struts are also shown (e.g., struts 103v, 103w).
[0062] FIG. 4A illustrates additional struts 103 (e.g., struts 103p and 103r) connecting
the first vertices (represented respectively by 301a, 301b, 301c, and 301d) of four
hexahedron-shaped web structures 313 in implant 100. FIG. 4B illustrates additional
struts 103 (e.g., struts 103s and 103t) connecting second vertices 309 (represented
respectively by 309a, 309b, 309c, and 309d) of four hexahedron-shaped web structures
313 in implant 100.      In some embodiments, additional struts 103 may also be used
internally between one or more vertices of the web structures to form additional trusses
(e.g., see web structures in FIGS. 1A-2B) (other structures are also possible).
[0063] In some embodiments, top surface 115a and bottom surface 115b of implant 100
may include triangles, squares, circles or other shapes (e.g., a random or custom
design). Top and bottom surfaces 115a,b may be used to connect the top and bottom
vertices of various geometrical building blocks used in the web structure of implant 100.
For example, each vertex may be connected through struts to the neighboring vertices of
other geometrical building blocks. Top surface 115a may include other strut networks
and/or connections.     In some embodiments, bottom surface 115b may mirror the top
surface (and/or have other designs).     In some embodiments, top surface 115a and
bottom surface 115b may engage respective surfaces of two adjacent vertebrae when
implant 100 is implanted.
[0064] As depicted in FIG. 1B, implant 100 may include lordosis (e.g., an angle in top
and/or bottom surfaces 115a,b approximately in a range of 4 to 15 degrees (such as 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, or 15 degrees)) to further support the adjacent vertebrae
when implanted. As described above, lordosis may include an angled orientation of

surfaces (e.g., top and bottom) that provide for differences in thickness in the anterior
and posterior portions of the implant such that the implant is conducive for supporting
the curvature of a vertebral column. In the illustrated embodiment, the thickness of
implant 100 is greater at or near the anterior portion 118 and lesser at or near the
posterior portion 120 of the implant. In the illustrated embodiment, the side portions of
external truss structure 105 are arranged substantially vertically, and the lordosis is
formed by the angles of the top portion 111 and bottom portion 112 of external truss
structure 105. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, top portion 111 and bottom
portion 112 of external truss structure 105 are not perpendicular to the vertical plane
defined by the side portion 113. Rather, the top portion 111 and bottom portion 112 are
arranged with an acute angle relative to the vertical plane of side portion 113 at or near
the anterior region 118 of implant 100 and with an obtuse angle relative to the vertical
plane of side portion 113 at or near posterior region 120 of implant 100. As depicted,
the vertical struts 103 that form the planar truss of side portion 113 of external truss
structure 105 proximate posterior region 120 of implant 100 are shorter than struts 103
that form side portion 113 of external truss structure 105 proximate anterior region 118
of implant 100. In the illustrated embodiment, in which the vertical trusses 103 are
substantially evenly spaced, the struts 103 forming the "X" cross members of the side
planar trusses proximate the posterior region 120 of implant 100 are shorter than struts
forming the "X" cross members of the side planar trusses proximate the anterior region
118 of implant 100. Other embodiments may include variations in the arrangement of
the trusses to provide various configurations of the implant. For example, in some
embodiments only one or neither of the top and bottom external truss portions may be
non-perpendicular to the side portions of the external truss proximate the anterior and
posterior portions of the implant. Further, the side, top, and/or bottom portions may
include multiple planar trusses angled relative to one another in any orientation. For
example, the top or bottom portions may include four planar trusses, each formed of
multiple truss units, such that the portion(s) includes a pyramidal like shape.
[0065] In some embodiments, the implant may not include lordosis.            For example,
FIGS. 2A-2B illustrate two views of an embodiment of an implant 200 without lordosis.
In some embodiments, the top surface and bottom surface may not include connecting
struts. For example, FIGS. 2C-2D illustrate two views of implant 250 without outer

struts (e.g., without external truss portions formed of planar trusses). In the illustrated
embodiment, implant 250 includes internal web structure 104 (e.g., a space truss) and
does not include an external truss structure. For example, in the illustrated embodiment,
the exterior faces of implant 250 are defined by a plurality of truss units that are angled
relative to each of its adjacent truss units.   The relative alignment of the truss units
results in a non-planar exterior that includes a plurality of pointed junctions.       The
pointed junctions (e.g., pointed junction 201) may operate to dig into the surrounding
bone to hold the implant in place (for example, if the implant is being used in a
corpectomy device).
[0066] FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate progressive sectioned views of implant 100 showing the
internal structure of implant 100, according to an embodiment. FIG. 5A illustrates a
sectioned view of a lower portion of implant 100. Bottom surface 105b is shown with
various struts (e.g., struts 103) extending upward from bottom surface 105b. FIG. 5B
illustrates a sectioned view approximately mid-way through implant 100. Struts, such
as struts 103e, 103f, shared by various stacked tetrahedrons in the web structure are
shown. Some struts extend through central portion 501a and/or 501b of implant 100.
FIG. 5B also shows central portions 501a,b of implant 100.         In some embodiments,
central portion 501a may include a rectangular region that has a width of approximately
50% of the implant width, a height of approximately 50% of the implant height, and a
length of approximately 50% of the implant length and located in the center of implant
100.    In some embodiments, central portion 501b may encompass a region (e.g., a
spherical region, square region, etc.) of approximately a radius of approximately 1/8 to
1/4 of the width of implant 100 around a position located approximately at one half the
width, approximately one half the length, and approximately one-half the height of
implant 100 (i.e., the center of implant 100).          Other central portions are also
contemplated.     For example, the central portion may include a square region with a
length of one of the sides of the square region approximately % to         12 the width of
implant 100 around a position approximately at one half the width, approximately one
half the length, and approximately one half the height of the implant.         An example
height 502a, width 502b, and length 502c, is shown in FIG. 5D. In some embodiments,
the height may be up to about 75mm or more. In some embodiments, such as those
used for long bone reconstruction, the width and/or length could be approximately 7

inches or longer.    In some embodiments, the width, length, and/or height may vary
along implant 100 (e.g., the height may vary if the implant includes lordosis).         The
height may be taken at one of the opposing sides, the middle, and/or may be an average
of one or more heights along the length of implant 100. The web structure may extend
through central portion 501a,b of the implant (e.g., at least one strut of the web structure
may pass at least partially through central portion 501a,b). FIG. 5C illustrates another
sectioned view showing sectioned views of top tetrahedrons in the web structure. FIG.
5D shows a complete view of implant 100 including top surface 115a with vertices
301a-d.
[0067] FIGS. 6A-6D illustrate alternate embodiments of implant 100.                In some
embodiments, different sections of the hexahedron-shaped geometric design may be
used.    For example, as seen in FIG. 6A, the bottom half of the hexahedron-shaped
geometric design may be used (primarily including the lower tetrahedron structures). If
using the bottom half of the design, design 600 may be expanded proportionately to
have similar overall dimensions as the hexahedron-shaped geometric design (e.g., the
tetrahedrons may be expanded to approximately twice the height of the tetrahedrons in
the hexahedron-shaped geometric design to give design 600 a height approximately the
same as the hexahedron-shaped geometric design). In some embodiments, design 600
may also be angled (e.g., on top surface 601a and/or bottom surface 601b) to provide
design 600 with lordosis to, in some embodiments, have a better fit between the
vertebral endplates.   Top surface 601a and/or bottom surface 601b may also include
struts to connect nodes of design 600 (e.g., see the strut network on the top surface in
FIG. 6a). Other patterns of struts for top surface 601a and/or bottom surface 601b may
also be used.    In some embodiments, design 600 may not include negative angles
between struts and may thus be easier to create through a casting or molding process.
[0068] FIGS. 6C-6D illustrate another alternate embodiment of implant 100. In some
embodiments, approximately the middle 40 to 60 percent of the hexahedron-shaped
geometric design may be used. For example, if an overall height of the hexahedron
shaped geometric design is approximately 37 mm, approximately the bottom 10 mm
and approximately the top 10 mm of the design may be removed and approximately the
middle 17 mm of the design may be used for the implant. Middle portion design 650
may then be expanded proportionately such that the approximate height of the expanded

design may be approximately 37 mm (or a different height as needed). Top surface
651a and bottom surface 651b may include a network of struts (e.g., see the struts on
top surface 651a of FIG. 6C) (other networks of struts are also contemplated).       Other
portions of the design for the implant are also contemplated (e.g., the top half of the
design shown in FIG. 1A, the bottom half of the design shown in FIG. 1A, etc). Design
portions may be proportionately expanded to meet specified dimensions (e.g., specified
height, width, and length). In some embodiments, the amount of struts may be reduced
or material in the implant may be redistributed so that some struts may have a larger
diameter and some may have a smaller diameter (e.g., the different diameters may
reinforce against different directional forces). In some embodiments, a partial-design
cage may be used (e.g., with half of the web structure so that the structure includes a
tetrahedron.   Further, in some embodiments, the implant may include angled surfaces
(e.g., an angled top surface 65 1a and/or angled bottom surface 65 1b) to provide lordosis
for implants to be implanted between the vertebral endplates.
[0069] In some embodiments, the web structure of implant 100 may distribute forces
throughout implant 100 when implanted. For example, the connecting struts of the web
structure may extend throughout the core of implant 100, and the interconnectivity of
struts 103 may disperse the stress of compressive forces throughout implant 100 to
reduce the potential of stress risers (the distribution of forces throughout implant 100
may prevent concentration of stress on one or more portions of the vertebrae that may
otherwise result in damage to the vertebrae).
[0070] In some embodiments, the web structure of implant 100 (e.g., the external and
internal struts of implant 100) may also provide surface area for bone graft fusion. For
example, the web structure extending throughout implant 100 may add additional
surface areas (e.g., on the surface of the struts making up implant 100) to fuse to the
bone graft material and prevent bone graft material from loosening or migrating from
implant 100.     In some embodiments, the web structure may also support bone in
growth.    For example, when implanted, adjacent bone (e.g., adjacent vertebrae if the
implant is used as a spinal implant) may grow over at least a portion of struts 103 of
implant 100. The bone growth and engagement between the bone growth and implant
100 may further stabilize implant 100. In some embodiments, the surfaces of implant
100 may be formed with a rough surface to assist in bone in-growth adhesion.

[0071] In some embodiments, struts 103 may have a diameter approximately in a range
of about 0.025 to 5 millimeters (mm) (e.g., 1.0 mm, 1.5 mm, 3 mm, etc).            Other
diameters are also contemplated (e.g., greater than 5 mm). In some embodiments, the
struts may have a length approximately in a range of 0.5 to 20 mm (e.g., depending on
the implant size needed to, for example, fit a gap between vertebral endplates).     As
another example, struts may have a length approximately in a range of 30-40 mm for a
hip implant. In some embodiments, the reduced strut size of the web structure may
allow the open cells in implant 100 to facilitate bone growth (e.g., bone may grow
through the open cells once implant 100 is implanted in the body). Average subsidence
for implants may be approximately 1.5 mm within the first 3 weeks post op (other
subsidence is also possible (e.g., approximately between 0.5 to 2.5 mm)). A strut size
that approximately matches the subsidence (e.g., a strut size of approximately 1.5 mm in
diameter and a subsidence of approximately 1.5 mm) may result in a net 0 impedance
(e.g., the bone growth growing around the struts) after implant 100 has settled in the
implanted position.   The net 0 impedance throughout the entire surface area of the
implant/vertebrae endplate interface may result in a larger fusion column of bone that
may result in more stable fusion. Other fusion column sizes are also contemplated. The
configuration of the implant 100 may redistribute the metal throughout the implant 100.
In some embodiments, a rim may not be included on the implant 100 (in some
embodiments, a rim may be included). The resulting bone growth (e.g., spinal column)
may grow through the implant 100.
[0072] In some embodiments, greater than 50% of the interior volume of implant 100
may be open. In some embodiments, greater than 60%, greater than 70%, and/or greater
than 80% of implant 100 may be open (e.g., 95%). In some embodiments, the open
volume may be filled with bone growth material. For example, cancellous bone may be
packed into an open/internal region of implant 100.
[0073] In some embodiments, at least a portion of the surfaces of implant 100 may be
coated/treated with a material intend to promote bone growth and/or bone adhesion
and/or an anitmicrobial     agent to prevent infections.        For example,    in some
embodiments, the surface of the struts (e.g., struts 103 forming the web structure) may
be coated with a biologic and/or a bone growth factor.         In some embodiments, a
biologic may include a coating, such as hydroxyapatite, bone morphaginic protein

(BMP), insulinlike growth factors I and II, transforming growth factor-beta, acidic and
basic fibroblast growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, and/or similar bone
growth stimulant that facilitates good biological fixation between the bone growth and a
surface of the implant.      In some embodiments, a bone growth factor may include a
naturally occurring substance capable of stimulating cellular growth, proliferation and
cellular differentiation (e.g., a protein or steroid hormone).
 [0074] In some embodiments, a biologic and/or growth factor may be secured to a
central region of implant 100. For example, in some embodiments, a biologic or growth
factor may be provided on at least a portion of a strut that extends through central
portion 501a and/or 501b of implant 100. Such an embodiment may enable the delivery
of a biologic and or a growth factor to a central portion of an implant. For example, the
biologic or growth factor may be physically secured to a strut in a central portion of
implant 100 as opposed to being packed into an open volume that does not include a
strut provided therein for the physical attachment of the biologic and/or growth factor.
 [0075] As implant 100 settles into the implant site, subsidence may place additional
pressure on the bone graft material (which may already be under compressive forces in
implant 100) and act to push the bone graft material toward the sides of implant 100
(according to Boussinesq's theory of adjacent material, when a force is applied to a
member that is adjacent to other materials (such as sand, dirt, or bone graft material) the
force against the member creates a zone of increased pressure (e.g., 60 degrees) in the
adjacent material).     Struts 103 of the web structure may resist bone graft material
protrusion from the sides of the web structure and may increase the pressure of the bone
graft material.    Bone graft material may need to be implanted in a higher-pressure
environment to create an environment conducive to strong bone growth (e.g., according
to Wolf's law that bone in a healthy person or animal will adapt to the loads it is placed
under). The web structure may thus increase the chance of stronger fusion.
 [0076] FIG.7A illustrates a web structure formed with two pyramids, according to an
embodiment.     The geometric building blocks for implant 100 include pyramids. For
example, top/upper pyramid 705a and bottom/lower pyramid 705b may be joined to
form a octahedron building block 703.         The octahedron building blocks 703 may be
joined, for example, at a face (e.g., a base 706 of the top and bottom pyramids 705a and
705b) by sharing a surface, etc. In one embodiment one or both of top and bottom

pyramid 705a,b may include a square pyramid. The resulting octahedron thus includes
two opposing pyramid shaped truss structures that share a common square shaped truss
unit at their base (e.g., where the two bases of the pyramids meet).
 [0077] It is further noted that the geometric building block may include one or more
additional struts extending through an interior region defined by the faces of the
building blocks. For example, in the illustrated embodiment, the octahedron building
block formed from top and lower pyramids 705a,b include two struts 103a extending
diagonally between opposing vertices of the face (e.g., the square shaped truss unit)
shared by top and lower pyramids 705a,b, and having an intersection 710. Accordingly,
the opposing vertices are directly connected by one or more struts arranged in a
substantially straight line between each pair of the opposing vertices.          In one
embodiment, struts 103a may be formed from four separate strut sections that extend
from each respective vertex to intersection 710.         The illustrated embodiment also
includes an additional central strut 103b that extends between vertices 701, 709 of top
and bottom pyramids 705a,b, and that intersects struts 103a at or near intersection 710.
In one embodiment, strut 103b may be formed from one or two separate strut sections
that extend from each respective vertex 701, 709 of top and bottom pyramids 705a,b to
intersection 710. Accordingly, the opposing vertices of the octahedron that do not lie in
the common face (e.g.. base) of the two pyramids 705a,b forming the octahedron are
directly connected by one or more struts arranged in a substantially straight line
between the opposing vertices.       Other embodiments may include any combination of
struts 103a,b.   For example, one embodiment may include only one or two of struts
 103a extending between opposing vertices of the square shaped common truss unit and
without strut 103b.      For example, one embodiment may include only two opposing
vertices of the square shaped common truss unit being connected to one another via a
strut. One embodiment may include only strut 103b extending between the opposing
vertices of the octahedron without struts 103a.
 [0078] FIG. 7B illustrates a web structure formed with two hexahedrons, according to
an embodiment. The geometric building blocks for implant 100 include hexahedrons.
For example, top/upper hexahedron 705a and bottom/lower hexahedron 705b may be
joined to form a dodecahedron building block 703. The dodecahedron building blocks
703 may be joined, for example, at a face (e.g., their bases) by sharing a side surface,

etc. Embodiments may include additional members, such as struts 103a,b that extend
between vertices of the hexahedron 705a,b in a manner similar to that described with
respect to FIG. 7A.
[0079] FIG. 7C illustrates a web structure formed with two dodecahedrons, according to
an embodiment.        For example, top/upper dodecahedron 705a and bottom/lower
dodecahedron 705b may be joined to form a 22-sided polyhedron building block 705.
The 22-sided polyhedron building blocks 705 may be joined, for example, at a face by
sharing a side surface, etc.. Embodiments may include additional members, such as
struts 103a,b that extend between vertices of the dodecahedrons 700a,b in a manner
similar to that described with respect to FIG. 7A.
[0080] Web structures formed from other truss configurations are also contemplated.
For example, the trusses may include a series of packing triangles, a two-web truss, a
three-web truss, etc. Further, the web structure for implant 100 may include one or
more trusses as described in U.S. Patent No. 6,931,812 titled "Web Structure and
Method For Making the Same", which issued August 23, 2005, which is hereby
incorporated by reference in its entirety as though fully and completely set forth herein.
[0081] FIG. 10 illustrates a flowchart of a method for making implant 100. In some
embodiments, implant 100 may be made through rapid prototyping (e.g., electron beam
melting, laser sintering, etc). It should be noted that in various embodiments of the
methods described below, one or more of the elements described may be performed
concurrently, in a different order than shown, or may be omitted entirely.           Other
additional elements may also be performed as desired. In some embodiments, a portion
or the entire method may be performed automatically by a computer system.
[0082] At 1001, a three dimensional model of implant 100 may be generated and stored
in a storage medium accessible to a controller operable to control the implant
production process. At 1003, a layer of material (e.g., a powder, liquid, etc.) may be
applied to a support. In some embodiments, the powder may include YTiAl (yTitanium
Aluminides) which may be a high strength/low weight material. Other materials may
also be used. The powder may be formed using a gas atomization process and may
include granules with diameters approximately in a range of 20 to 200 micrometers
(pm) (e.g., approximately 80 pm). The powder may be delivered to the support through
a distributer (e.g., delivered from a storage container).      The distributer and/or the

support may move during distribution to apply a layer (e.g., of powder) to the support.
In some embodiments, the layer may be approximately a uniform thickness (e.g., with
an average thickness of 20 to 200 micrometers (pm)).           In some embodiments, the
distributer and support may not move (e.g., the material may be sprayed onto the
support). At 1005, the controller may move an electron beam relative to the material
layer. In some embodiments, the electron beam generator may be moved, and in some
embodiments the support may be moved. If the material is yTiAl, a melting temperature
approximately in a range of 1200 to 1800 degrees Celsius (e.g., 1500 degrees Celsius)
may be obtained between the electron beam and the material. At 1007, between each
electron beam pass, additional material may be applied by the distributer. At 1009, the
unmelted material may be removed and implant 100 may be cooled (e.g., using a cool
inert gas). In some embodiments, the edges of the implant may be smoothed to remove
rough edges (e.g., using a diamond sander). In some embodiments, the implant may
include rough edges to increase friction between the implant and the surrounding bone
to increase adhesion of the implant to the bone.
[0083] Other methods of making implant 100 are also contemplated.            For example,
implant 100 may be cast or injection molded. In some embodiments, multiple parts may
be cast or injection molded and joined together (e.g., through welding, melting, etc). In
some embodiments, individual struts 103 forming implant 100 may be generated
separately (e.g., by casting, injection molding, etc.) and welded together to form implant
100. In some embodiments, multiple implants of different sizes may be constructed and
delivered in a kit. A medical health professional may choose an implant (e.g., according
to a needed size) during the surgery. In some embodiments, multiple implants may be
used at the implant site.
[0084] FIG. 11 illustrates a flowchart of a method for implanting a spinal implant,
according to an embodiment.        It should be noted that in various embodiments of the
methods described below, one or more of the elements described may be performed
concurrently, in a different order than shown, or may be omitted entirely.           Other
additional elements may also be performed as desired. In some embodiments, a portion
or the entire method may be performed automatically by a computer system.
[0085] At step 1301, an intersomatic space may be accessed. For example, an anterior
opening may be made in a patient's body for an anterior lumbar inter-body fusion

(ALIF) approach or a posterior opening may be made for a posterior lumbar inter-body
fusion (PLIF) approach. At 1303, at least a portion of the intersomatic space may be
excised to form a cavity in the intersomatic space. At 1305, the implant may be inserted
into the cavity in the intersomatic space. In some embodiments, handler 1100 may be
used to grip implant 100. In some embodiments, force may be applied to the implant
(e.g., through a hammer) to insert the implant into the cavity.       After placement of
implant 100, trigger 1109 on handler 1100 may be released to release implant 100. At
1307, before and/or after insertion of the implant, the implant and/or space in the cavity
may be packed with bone graft material. At 1309, the access point to the intersomatic
space may be closed (e.g., using sutures).
[0086] In some embodiments, the implant may be customized.            For example, three
dimensional measurements and/or shape of the implant may be used to construct an
implant that distributes the web structure throughout a three-dimensional shape design.
As noted in FIG. 10, the three-dimensional shape design of the implant may be entered
into a computer system/controller that may control the electron beam melting process.
In some embodiments, the truss design and orientation may be preset or predetermined
by the computer system/controller. In some embodiments, a user may select the truss
design to use (e.g., one or more of truss designs shown in FIGS. 3A, 7A, or 8A-9)
and/or may select the orientation of the trusses in the implant. In some embodiments,
the user may enter the outer dimensions of the three dimensional shape and the
computer system/controller may generate a three-dimensional design that includes the
truss design and orientation. The computer system/controller may generate the three
dimensional design by providing a uniform distribution of the truss design throughout a
three-dimensional shape with the outer dimensions provided by the user.           In some
embodiments, the heights and widths of the trusses used in the design may be
proportional to the overall height and width of the three-dimensional shape (e.g., the
trusses may have heights approximately equal to      12 the overall height and a width of
approximately 1/16 the overall width). Other heights and widths are also contemplated.
In some embodiments, the user may provide the height and width and/or the computer
system/controller may have default heights and widths to use.
[0087] Embodiments of a subset or all (and portions or all) of the above may be
implemented by program instructions stored in a memory medium or carrier medium

and executed by a processor (e.g., a processor on the controller operable to control the
implant production process). A memory medium may include any of various types of
memory devices or storage devices. The term "memory medium" is intended to include
an installation medium, e.g., a Compact Disc Read Only Memory (CD-ROM), floppy
disks, or tape device; a computer system memory or random access memory such as
Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM), Double Data Rate Random Access
Memory (DDR RAM), Static Random Access Memory (SRAM), Extended Data Out
Random Access Memory (EDO RAM), Rambus Random Access Memory (RAM), etc.;
or a non-volatile memory such as a magnetic media, e.g., a hard drive, or optical
storage.    The memory medium may comprise other types of memory as well, or
combinations thereof.     In addition, the memory medium may be located in a first
computer in which the programs are executed, or may be located in a second different
computer that connects to the first computer over a network, such as the Internet. In the
latter instance, the second computer may provide program instructions to the first
computer for execution.      The term "memory medium" may include two or more
memory mediums that may reside in different locations, e.g., in different computers that
are connected over a network.
[0088] In some embodiments, a computer system at a respective participant location
may include a memory medium(s) on which one or more computer programs or
software components according to one embodiment of the present invention may be
stored.  For example, the memory medium may store one or more programs that are
executable to perform the methods described herein. The memory medium may also
store operating system software, as well as other software for operation of the computer
system.
[0089] In some embodiments, a truss/web structure may be disposed on at least a
portion of an implant to facilitate coupling of the implant to an adjacent structure. For
example, where an implant is implanted adjacent a bony structure, one or more truss
structures may be disposed on and/or extend from a surface (e.g., an interface plate) of
the implant that is intended to contact, and at least partially adhere to, the bony structure
during use. In some embodiments, such as those including an intervertebral implant
disposed between the end plates of two adjacent vertebrae during, one or more truss
structures may be disposed on a contact surface of the intervertebral implant to facilitate

bone growth that enhances coupling of the intervertebral implant to the bony structure.
For example, a truss structure may include one or more struts that extend from the
contact surface to define an open space for bone growth therethrough, thereby enabling
bone through growth to interlock the bone structure and the truss structure with one
another to couple the implant to the bony structure at or near the contact face. Such
interlocking bone through growth may inhibit movement between the implant and the
bony structure which could otherwise lead to loosening, migration, subsidence, or
dislodging of the implant from the intended position.        Similar techniques may be
employed with various types of implants, including those intended to interface with
tissue and/or bone structures. For example, a truss structure may be employed on a
contact surface of knee implants, in a corpectomy device, in a hip replacement, in a
knee replacement, in a long bone reconstruction scaffold, or in a cranio-maxifacial
implant hip implants, jaw implant, an implant for long bone reconstruction, foot and
ankle implants, shoulder implants or other joint replacement implants or the like to
enhance adherence of the implant to the adjacent bony structure or tissue.
 [0090] A prosthetic implant used in a ball-and socket type joint replacement includes a
cup, and a ball component. Ball-and socket type joint replacement are generally used
for shoulder and hip replacement surgery. An embodiment of a ball component of a
ball-and-socket type prosthesis is shown in FIG. 12. Ball component 3600 includes a
head 3610 and a stem 3620. Head 3610 has a shape and size to form a ball and socket
joint with a corresponding cup component. A collar 3630 couples the head 3610 to the
stem 3620.      Stem 3620 includes a web structure 3640 comprising a space truss
comprising two or more planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes.
Web structure 3640 may take on any specific design described herein. Extending from
collar 3630 through web structure 3640 is a compression screw 3655 and a bone screw
3660. Clamp 3650 is coupled to compression screw 3655. Clamp 3650 together with
collar 3630 couple to the outer surface of the bone to couple the ball component to the
bone.
 [0091] FIG. 13 depicts the ball-and-socket prosthesis implanted in a subject.      Cup
component 3700 is placed into the stationary portion 3710 of the patient (e.g., shoulder
or hip). Ball component 3600 is placed onto and into the moving portion 3720 of the
patient (e.g., arm or leg bone) as shown. Ball component 3600 is coupled to the bone

by forming a cavity in a portion of the bone that is capable of accepting the web
structure 3640. Two bores are also formed in the bone that allow clamp rod 3655 and
bone screw 3660 to pass through the bone. After the appropriate bone openings have
been made, web structure 3640 is placed into the cavity and compression screw 3655
and bone screw 3660 are passed through the bone as shown. Clamp 3650 is tightened
against the bone, drawing collar 3630 against the opposing surface of the bone.
Together clamp 3650 and collar 3630 secure the ball component onto the bone. Bone
screw 3660, and an additional bone screw 3670 are placed into the bone to secure the
ball component onto the bone.
[0092] FIG. 14 depicts an alternative ball-and-socket prosthesis implanted in a subject.
Cup 3700 is placed into the stationary portion 3710 of the patient (e.g., shoulder or hip).
Ball component 3600 is placed onto and into the moving portion 3720 of the patient
(e.g., arm or leg bone) as shown. Ball component 3600 includes a stem that includes
one or more truss structures 3800. Truss structures 3800 include three or more struts
3810 joined at a node 3820, wherein the one or more truss structures are configured to
interface with bone tissue 3620.     Two bores are also formed in the bone that allow
compression screw 3655 and bone screw 3660 to pass through the bone. After the
appropriate bone openings have been made, truss structures 3800 are embedded into the
bone and compression screw 3655 and bone screw 3660 are passed through the bone as
shown.     Clamp 3650 is tightened against the bone, drawing collar 3630 against the
opposing surface of the bone. Together clamp 3650 and collar 3630 secure the ball
component onto the bone. Bone screw 3660, and an additional bone screw 3670 are
placed into the bone to secure the ball component onto the bone. Truss structures 3800
provide a surface for bone growth to secure the ball component to the bone.
[0093] Use of a web structure or one or more truss structures as a part of the femoral
component allows the implant to be absorbed into the bone as the bone is regenerated.
Thus, the femoral component is integrated into the femur bone, making failure of the
hip replacement less likely.
[0094] In this patent, certain U.S. patents, U.S. patent applications, and other materials
(e.g., articles) have been incorporated by reference. The text of such U.S. patents, U.S.
patent applications, and other materials is, however, only incorporated by reference to
the extent that no conflict exists between such text and the other statements and

drawings set forth herein. In the event of such conflict, then any such conflicting text in
such incorporated by reference U.S. patents, U.S. patent applications, and other
materials is specifically not incorporated by reference in this patent.
[0095] In accordance with the above descriptions, in various embodiments, an implant
may include a web structure. The web structure for the implant may include a micro
truss design. In some embodiments, the micro truss design may include a web structure
with multiple struts. Other web structures are also contemplated. The web structure
may extend throughout the implant (including a central portion of the implant). The
web structure may thus reinforce the implant along multiple planes (including internal
implant load bearing) and provide increased area for bone graft fusion.           The web
structure may be used in implants such as spinal implants, corpectomy devices, hip
replacements, knee replacements, long bone reconstruction scaffolding, and cranio
maxifacial implants. Other implant uses are also contemplated. In some embodiments,
the web structure for the implant may include one or more geometric objects (e.g.,
polyhedrons).    In some embodiments, the web structure may not include a pattern of
geometrical building blocks (e.g., an irregular pattern of struts may be used in the
implant).   In some embodiments, the web structure may include a triangulated web
structure including two or more tetrahedrons. A tetrahedron may include four triangular
faces in which three of the four triangles meet at each vertex. The web structure may
further include two tetrahedrons placed together at two adjacent faces to form a web
structure with a hexahedron-shaped frame (including six faces). In some embodiments,
multiple hexahedron-shaped web structures may be arranged in a side-by-side manner.
The web structures may connect directly through side vertices (e.g., two or more
hexahedron-shaped web structures may share a vertex). In some embodiments, the web
structure may be angled to provide lordosis to the implant.
[0096] Further modifications and alternative embodiments of various aspects of the
invention may be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. For
example, although in certain embodiments, struts have been described and depicts as
substantially straight elongated members, struts may also include elongated members
curved/arched along at least a portion of their length. Accordingly, this description is to
be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art
the general manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of

the invention shown and described herein are to be taken as embodiments. Elements
and materials may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein, parts and
processes may be reversed, and certain features of the invention may be utilized
independently, all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit
of this description of the invention. Changes may be made in the elements described
herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the
following claims. Furthermore, it is noted that the word "may" is used throughout this
application in a permissive sense (i.e., having the potential to, being able to), not a
mandatory sense (i.e., must). The term "include", and derivations thereof, mean
"including, but not limited to". As used in this specification and the claims, the singular
forms "a", "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the content clearly indicates
otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a strut" includes a combination of two or
more struts. The term "coupled" means "directly or indirectly connected".
[0097] It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that such prior art forms a part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[0098] In the claims that follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
invention.

                                          CLAIMS
1.      A ball component of a ball-and-socket joint prosthesis comprising a spherical
head, a stem, and a collar coupling the head to the stem, wherein the stem comprises a
web structure, the web structure comprising a space truss comprising a plurality of
planar truss units having a plurality of struts joined at nodes, wherein the web structure
is configured to interface with bone tissue, and wherein the web structure extends
throughout the central portion of the stem.
2.      The ball component of claim 1, wherein the plurality of planar truss units
comprise a planar triangular truss unit having three substantially straight struts and three
nodes in a triangular configuration.
3.      The ball component of claim 1, wherein the plurality of planar truss units
comprise a planar quadrilateral truss unit having four substantially straight struts and
four nodes in a quadrilateral configuration.
4.      The ball component of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the plurality of planar
truss units are coupled to one another such that a planar truss unit lies in a plane that is
not substantially parallel to a plane of an adjacent planar truss unit that shares at least
one strut.
5.      The ball component of any one of claims I to 4, wherein a plurality of planar
truss units define an exterior surface of the web structure.
6.      The ball component of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the struts that create the
space truss comprises a biologic, growth factor or antimicrobial coupled thereto.
7.      The ball component of any one of claims 1 to 6, further comprising a
compression screw extending from the collar through the web structure.

8.      The ball component of any one of claims I to 7, further comprising a bone screw
extending from the collar through the web structure.
9.      A ball-and-joint prosthesis comprising:
        a cup; and
        a ball component as described in any one of claims I to 8.
10.     A ball component of a ball-and-socket prosthesis comprising a head and a stem,
wherein the stem comprises one or more truss structures, the truss structures comprising
three or more struts joined at a node, wherein the one or more truss structures are
configured to interface with bone tissue such that the truss structures are fully embedded
into the bone.
11.     A ball-and socket prosthesis comprising:
        a cup; and
        a ball component comprising a spherical head and a stem, wherein the stem
        comprises one or more truss structures, the truss structures comprising three or
        more struts joined at a node, wherein the one or more truss structures are
        configured to interface with bone tissue such that the truss structures are fully
        embedded into the bone.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
