                                          ABSTRACT
The disclosure relates to oxygen scavenging polymer compositions, methods of making the
compositions, articles prepared from the compositions, and methos of making the articles.
This abstract is intended as a scanning tool for purposes of searching in the particular art and
is not intended to be limited of the present invention.

         THERMOPLASTIC POLYMRS COMPRISING OXYGEN SCAVENGING
                                            MOLECULES
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2010319302,
which claims priority from United States provisional patent application serial number 61/261,209
filed November 13, 2009, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0002]    Many polymers used in packaging materials and other articles are permeable to oxygen.
When oxygen permeates a polymeric composition or article, it can cause oxidative damage to the
contents of the package. It is therefore desirable for certain polymer compositions and articles to
have oxygen scavenging capability, such that when oxygen permeates the composition or article,
oxidative damage can be mitigated.
[0003]    It is known in the art to include an oxygen scavenger in the packaging structure for the
protection of oxygen sensitive materials. Such scavengers are believed to react with oxygen that
is trapped in the package or that permeates from outside of the package, thus extending to life of
package contents. These packages include films, bottles, containers, and the like. Food,
beverages (such as beer and fruit juices), cosmetics, medicines, and the like are particularly
sensitive to oxygen exposure and require high barrier properties to oxygen to preserve the
freshness of the package contents and avoid changes in flavor, texture and color.
[0004]    Conventional polymeric materials sufer from a lack of oxygen scavenging moieties in
the polymeric structures. In various aspects, the disclosed compositions provide for this need as
well as other needs.
                                             SUMMARY
[0005]    In accordance with the purpose(s) of the invention, as embodied and broadly described
herein, the invention, in one aspect, relates to oxygen scavenging polymers.
[0006]    Disclosed are thermoplastic polymers comprising an allylic or benzylic amide
compound covalently bonded thereto as a repeating unit in the polymer chain, covalently
                                                   I

    WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
bonded thereto as a pendant group, or covalently bonded thereto as an end group of the
polymer.
[0007]   Also disclosed are compositions comprising the disclosed polymers.
[0008]   Also disclosed are articles prepared from the disclosed polymers and compositions.
[0009]   Also disclosed are methods of making oxygen scavenging polymers.
[0010]   Also disclosed are the products of the disclosed methods.
[0011]   Additional advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description
which follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or can be learned by practice
of the invention. The advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by means of
the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is to be
understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description
are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTIONOF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]   Figure 1 is a plot illustrating oxygen scavenging ability of a the polymer
composition prepared according to Example 2.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0013]   The present invention can be understood more readily by reference to the following
detailed description of the invention and the Examples included therein.
[0014]   Before the present compounds, compositions, articles, systems, devices, and/or
methods are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that they are not limited to
specific synthetic methods unless otherwise specified, or to particular reagents unless
otherwise specified, as such may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the
terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not
intended to be limiting. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, example
methods and materials are now described.
                                                2

    WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
[0015]    Disclosed are the components to be used to prepare the compositions of the
invention as well as the compositions themselves to be used within the methods disclosed
herein. These and other materials are disclosed herein, and it is understood that when
combinations, subsets, interactions, groups, etc. of these materials are disclosed that while
specific reference of each various individual and collective combinations and permutation of
these compounds can not be explicitly disclosed, each is specifically contemplated and
described herein. For example, if a particular compound is disclosed and discussed and a
number of modifications that can be made to a number of molecules including the
compounds are discussed, specifically contemplated is each and every combination and
permutation of the compound and the modifications that are possible unless specifically
indicated to the contrary. Thus, if a class of molecules A, B, and C are disclosed as well as a
class of molecules D, E, and F and an example of a combination molecule, A-D is disclosed,
then even if each is not individually recited each is individually and collectively
contemplated meaning combinations, A-E, A-F, B-D, B-E, B-F, C-D, C-E, and C-F are
considered disclosed. Likewise, any subset or combination of these is also disclosed. Thus,
for example, the sub-group of A-E, B-F, and C-E would be considered disclosed. This
concept applies to all aspects of this application including steps in methods of making and
using the compositions of the invention. Thus, if there are a variety of additional steps that
can be performed it is understood that each of these additional steps can be performed with
any specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the methods of the invention.
[0016]    As used in the specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an"
and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus, for
example, reference to "a functional group," "an alkyl," or "a residue" includes mixtures of
two or more such functional groups, alkyls, or residues, and the like.
[0017]    Ranges can be expressed herein as from "about" one particular value, and/or to
"about" another particular value. When such a range is expressed, another aspect includes
from the one particular value and/or to the other particular value. Similarly, when values are
expressed as approximations, by use of the antecedent "about," it will be understood that the
particular value forms another aspect. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each
of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint, and independently of the
other endpoint. It is also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein, and
                                                 3

    WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
that each value is also herein disclosed as "about" that particular value in addition to the
value itself. For example, if the value "10" is disclosed, then "about 10" is also disclosed. It
is also understood that each unit between two particular units are also disclosed. For
example, if 10 and 15 are disclosed, then 11, 12, 13, and 14 are also disclosed.
[0018]    Disclosed herein are thermoplastic polymers having covalently linked thereto a
benzylic or allylic amide compound which can function as an oxygen scavenger in a
polymeric composition. A variety of different thermoplastic polymers can be used. Generally,
polymers that exhibit at least some oxygen permeability can be used, at least inasmuch as the
disclosed compositions can reduce the oxidative damage to the polymer. The polymer can be
a polymer commonly used in packaging materials including most thermoplastic polymers,
including polyethylene, such as low density polyethylene, very low density polyethylene,
ultra-low density polyethylene, high density polyethylene, linear low density polyethylene,
and polypropylene; polyesters such as (PET), (PEN) and their copolymers such as PET/IP;
polyvinyl chloride (PVC); polyvinylidene chloride (PVDC); and ethylene copolymers such as
ethylene/vinyl acetate copolymer, ethylene/alkyl (meth)acrylate copolymers,
ethylene/(meth)acrylic acid copolymers, and ionomers. Blends of different base polymers
also can be used. In a further aspect, the polymer comprises a polyester polymer or
copolymer. Preferred polyesters include polymers of phthalic acids, such as polyethylene
terephthalate (PET), or a copolymer thereof.
[0019]    Generally, the benzylic or allylic amide compound is attached to the polymer
through one or more polymer end groups or is actually part of the polymer backbone itself. In
a first aspect, the polymer is a polyester or copolyester having covalently attached thereto a
benzylic or allylic amide compound. Generally, the amide compound that is covalently
attached to the polymer is an N-allylic amide compound or N-benzylic amide compound. The
amide compound is useful as an oxygen scavenger in the composition. The oxygen
scavenging ability of the amide compound can be enhanced by the transition metal.
[0020]    N-allylic or N-benzylic amide compounds have the general structure shown below:
                                            0
                                               R
                                                 4

    WO 2011/060308                                                         PCT/US2010/056598
wherein each --- independently denotes an optional covalent bond.
[0021]   It is also appreciated that an N-allylic or N-benzylic amide compound can be further
substituted and that more than one amide functionality can be present in a compound. In one
aspect, an N-allylic or N-benzylic amide compound can be polymeric. In a further aspect, an
N-allylic or N-benzylic amide compound can be nonpolymeric.
[0022]   The benzylic amide compound or allylic amide compound can have a variety of
functional groups that will enable the compound to be attached to the polymer through an
endgroup of the polymer or through the polymer backbone itself.
[0023]   In one aspect, the amide compound has a structure of Formula I or II:
                                            D    X        R1
                                                 x        R
                               (R2)m             ND
                                     E,,  F      NI       A
                                                         ,Y
                                                  X          _IIn
wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a
double bond; wherein n is 3, 4, 5, or 6; wherein m is an integer from 0 to 6-n; wherein each X
is independently selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each
A, and each B are independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2;
wherein D, E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
S; and wherein each R and each R 2 is independently selected from the group consisting of
carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl, electron withdrawing groups,
electron releasing groups, and a transition metal.
[0024]   In one aspect, the compound of formula I or II can be represented by the following
formula:
                                                 5

   WO 2011/060308                                                              PCT/US2010/056598
                                    x              (R')0-3       X
                                        N        D/         N
                                 BE                 F              /\\B
                              A=Y                    N         R1 Y=A
                                                           /      B
                                                           Y=A            ,or
                                                    (R2 o-3          X
                                    2X                                   2
                                              NN
                               BR2                D                       BR
                                  BE-F                          N/B
                                A=Y        X
                                               x      ~xXX            Y=A
                                                       X            B
                                                             Y=A
[0025]  In a further aspect, the compound has a structure of Formula III or Formula IV:
                                                  x             R1
                              (Ri),D             NB
                                      E     F
                                                                A      n
                                     L
                                                   X            R1
                               (R1)m       >      N
                                      E     F     N             A
                                                 X            R2
                           ( R2) m D              N          .
                                                NI
                                    E     F                   A
                                   L
                                                 X             R2
                           (R2) m      DN
                                    E     F                    A
                                                  Xn                     (IV),
wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a
double bond; wherein each n is independently 1-5; wherein m is an integer from 0 to 5-n;
                                                    6

   WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH;
wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from the group consisting of
N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D, E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting
of CH, N, 0, and S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl, electron
withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal; and wherein L is a
divalent linking group selected from C2-C 12 aliphatic or cyclic ether, C2-C 12 aliphatic or
cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12
aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester.
[0026]    In a further aspect, the compound has a structure of Formula V or Formula VI:
 FR2             -      /              R2       R         X (R)                      R2
              N              NN                                            N
            X     -n             X                       X                  X           -An (V )
 [R2         x          (R2).m                               (R2
                                                                 ).        X            1
     1   I N                   N~ I                    1NNE      FK-
       A ,Yx        n           X                A_       x             L    x              (VI),
wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a
double bond; wherein each n is independently 0-5; wherein m is an integer from 0 to 5-n;
wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH;
wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from the group consisting of
N, CR , and CR 2; wherein D, E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting
of CH, N, 0, and S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl, electron
withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal; and wherein L is a
divalent linking group selected from C2-C 12 aliphatic or cyclic ether, C2-C 12 aliphatic or
cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12
aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester.
[0027]    Generally, linking group L is a divalent organic residue. Suitable linking groups L
                                                7

    WO 2011/060308                                                           PCT/US2010/056598
include divalent aliphatic chains, divalent aliphatic or cyclic ethers, divalent aliphatic or
cyclic amides, divalent aromatic amide, divalent aliphatic or cyclic amines, divalent aromatic
amines, divalent aliphatic or cyclic esters and divalent aromatic esters, such as those
exemplified in Table 1 below. As used in the table belwo, the term "tether compound" refers
to a difunctional organic compound capable of reactions with ring substitutents of disclosed
moieties to form covalent bonds, thereby chemically connecting the ring substitutents via a
divalent organic residue of the tether compound, refered to as a linking group, L. Examples
of tether compounds include dielectrophilic compounds (e.g., diacyl halides, cyclic
anhydrides, and bis-alkyl halides) for linking nucleophilic ring substituents (e.g., hydroxides,
thiols, and amines). Further examples of tether compounds include dinucleophilic
compounds (e.g., bis-hydroxides, bis-thiols, and bis-amines) for linking electrophilic ring
substituents (e.g., acyl halides and alkyl halides). Selected examples are illustrated
structurally in Table 1.
[0028]    Table 1
                      L                         Ring Substituent           Tether Compound
                0          0
                                                     -O       H               O           O
                      "
                  41, R0
                o          o                                             Z          R         Z
                                                        SRS H            wherein Z is OH, OR',
             SR                  S                                             halogen, or
                                                                           psuedohalogen; or
                                                                         0                    0
                                                              H          O
                      R          N
          N
                                                        R'
          R'                     R'
                      R                                       Z          H    O      R         H
          0                      0
                                                 8

   WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
               S    R                                                 H           R           H
         o                       o
               R'         R'
                               I    I                                       R'          R'
                  N                                                         N
                     R                                                H           R           H
         o                       o
         O           R           O                     O     H
                                                       S     H        Z           R          Z
   A          ~S    R            S
                                                                       wherein each Z is OH,
                                                                          OR', halogen, or
                                                             H             psuedohalogen.
          N          R           N                     N
         R'                      R'                    R'
         O          R            O                                   HO           R          OH
          S         R            S                                   HS           R           SH
          N          R           N                                   HN           R           NH
                                 R'                                   R'                     R'
         R'
[0029]   In Table 1 above, R is an optionally substituted divalent organic residue; for
example, R can be selected from optionally substituted alkyl or alkenyl or alkynyl, optionally
substituted heteroalkyl or heteroalkenyl or heteroalkynyl, optionally substituted cycloalkyl or
cycloalkenyl or cycloalkynyl, optionally substituted heterocycloalkyl or heterocycloalkenyl
or heterocycloalkynyl, optionally substituted aryl, and optionally substituted heteroaryl. In
                                                9

    WO 2011/060308                                                           PCT/US2010/056598
further aspects, R can be linear, cyclic, or branched. Typically, R has from 1 to 48 carbons,
from 1 to 24 carbons, from 1 to 12 carbons, from 1 to 8 carbons, from 1 to 6 carbon, or from
1 to 4 carbons.
[0030]    In further aspects, R' is an optionally substituted organic residue. Typically, R' has
from 1 to 12 carbons, from 1 to 8 carbons, from 1 to 6 carbon, or from 1 to 4 carbons. For
example, R' can be methyl, ethyl, propyl, butyl, pentyl, or hexyl.
[0031]    It is also contemplated that the functional groups selected for use in fabricating L
can be used in combinations other than those shown in the Table. For example, in a further
aspect, L can be:
                                            0
                                      O          R 11        N"
                                                             R'
[0032]    Linking groups L can be readily prepared by methods known to those of skill in the
art of organic synthesis.
[0033]    In one aspect, the amide compound has a structure of Formula VII:
                                      X
                             A 'Y           E   .F              ,A
                                                R1                 (VII),
wherein each X is selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each
A, and each B are independently selected from the group consisting of N and CR ; wherein
D, E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S;
wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a
double bond; and wherein each R1 is independently selected from the group consisting of H,
alkyl, aryl, electron withdrawing groups, and electron releasing groups.
[0034]    In a further aspect, the amide compound has a structure of Formula VIII:
                                                 10

    WO 2011/060308                                                           PCT/US2010/056598
                           R2         X              X        R2
                                       N      DB
                            A              E    .F         YA
                                     X                X          (VIII),
wherein each X is selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each
A, and each B are independently selected from the group consisting of N and CR 2 ; wherein
D, E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S;
wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a
double bond; and wherein each R 2 is independently selected from the group consisting of H,
alkyl, aryl, electron withdrawing groups, and electron releasing groups.
[0035]    The alkyl groups RI or R2 of the compound of Formulae (I-VIII) can be a branched
or unbranched saturated hydrocarbon group of I to 24 carbon atoms, e.g. 1 to 18 carbons
atoms, 1 to 14 carbon atoms, 1 to 12 carbon atoms, 1 to 10 carbon atoms, 1 to 8, 1 to 6 carbon
atoms, or 1 to 4 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, t
butyl, pentyl, hexyl, heptyl, octyl, decyl, tetradecyl, hexadecyl, eicosyl, tetracosyl and the
like. The alkyl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The alkyl group can be substituted
with one or more groups including, but not limited to, alkyl, halogenated alkyl, alkoxy,
alkenyl, alkynyl, aryl, heteroaryl, aldehyde, amino, carboxylic acid, ester, halide,
hydroxamate, hydroxy, ketone, nitro, silyl, sulfo-oxo, sulfonyl, sulfone, sulfoxide, or thiol, as
described below. The alkyl group can be halogenated, which includes an alkyl group that is
substituted with one or more halide, e.g., fluorine, chlorine, bromine, or iodine. The alkyl
group can also be a lower alkyl group, which is an alkyl group containing from one to six
(e.g., from one to four) carbon atoms.
[0036]    The aryl groups RI or R2 of the compound of Formulae (I-VIII) can be any carbon
based aromatic group including but not limited to, benzene, naphthalene, phenyl, biphenyl,
etc. The aryl group can also be heteroaryl, which is defined as an aromatic group that has at
least one heteroatom incorporated within the ring of the aromatic group. Examples of
heteroatoms include, but are not limited to, nitrogen, oxygen, sulfur, and phosphorus. The
aryl group can be substituted or unsubstituted. The aryl group can be substituted with one or
more groups including, but not limited to, alkyl, halogenated alkyl, alkoxy, alkenyl, alkynyl,
aryl, heteroaryl, aldehyde, amino, carboxylic acid, ester, halide, hydroxamate, hydroxy,
                                                  II

    WO 2011/060308                                                            PCT/US2010/056598
ketone, nitro, silyl, sulfo-oxo, sulfonyl, sulfone, sulfoxide, or thiol as described herein. A
biaryl group is a specific type of aryl group and is included in the definition of aryl. Biaryl
refers to two aryl groups that are bound together via a fused ring structure, as in naphthalene,
or are attached via one or more carbon-carbon bonds, as in biphenyl.
[0037]     Suitable electron withdrawing groups and electron releasing groups are generally
known in the art. Preferred electron withdrawing groups include nitro, carboxylic acid, esters,
for example loweralkyl esters, and cyano. Preferred electron releasing groups include
branched and straight chain alkyl groups, for example, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl,
isobutyl, and tert-butyl. Other preferred electron releasing groups include alkoxy, for example
methoxy and ethoxy. Other preferred electron releasing groups include thioalkyl. Still other
preferred electron releasing groups include amines, for example -NH 2 , and NH(loweralkyl),
and N(loweralkyl) 2.
[0038]     Oxygen scavenging amide compounds are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application
Publication No. 20080277622, Deshpande et al. "Oxygen Scavenging Molecules, Articles
Containing Same, And Methods of Their Use," which is incorporated herein by this reference
for its teaching of amide compounds, their preparation, and their use as oxygen scavenging
materials. Many of the amide compounds disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication
No. 20080277622 can be covalently attached to the end of a polymer, such as a PET
polyester, or actually copolymerized with a polymer and thereby be incorporated into the
polymer backbone itself.
[0039]     The compound of Formulae (I-VIII) can be attached to a thermoplastic polymer
through any atom and can be attached as a side-chain, end group, or as a repeating unit in the
polymer backbone itself. In one aspect, amide compounds of the formulae above can be
attached to a polymer, such as a polyester, through an endgroup of the polyester. Typically,
this can be accomplished by reacting one of the functional groups of the amide compound,
for example one or more of R or R2 groups, with the alcohol, carboxylic acid, or ester end
group of the polyester. The compounds above can also be copolymerized with one or more
polyester monomers, for example, if the amide compound comprises two carboxylic acid or
alcohol functional groups at either end of the molecule.
[0040]     To provide specific illustrations of the polymers and how to make the polymers, the
                                                  12

    WO 2011/060308                                                        PCT/US2010/056598
following non-limiting examples are provided. As discussed above, a PET polymer can be
functionalized at one or more endgroups with a benzylic amide according to Scheme 1. It will
be appreciated that such a synthetic approach can be used for a variety of different benzylic
or allylic amide compounds.
Scheme 1.
                O                                              0
                 S0+    H2N            NH2                      N
                        H2NH    I                               N             NH2
                H                                              0
                     ~0            -       0   00
             HO>     y        0            0                      OH
                                               0o           0
               0
                 N           NH            0
               0                     0     04  0
                                               0            O     -OH
                                                                fl0            0__
[0041]    According to Scheme 1, a benzylic amide compound can be prepared according to
method analogous to those disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No.
20080277622, discussed above. Subseqeuntly the benzylic amide can be functionalized to a
PET polymer through the carboxy terminus through a typical coupling reaction, such as a
peptide coupling reaction, employing for example, a carbodiimide and a base. The resulting
polymer therefore has a benzylic amide compound at its endgroup which can function as an
internal oxygen scavenger in a composition comprising the polymer.
[0042]    Another example of this approach is outlined in Scheme 2, wherein a different
benzylic amide compound can be attached to the endgroup of a PET polymer. In this case, the
amide compound is again functionalized to the PET through its carboxy terminus. The
resulting polymer can be attached to yet another PET polymer through the carboxy end of the
benzylic amide compound. Such a strategy can be useful, for example, when trying to alter
the molecular weight of the PET polymer.
                                              13

    WO 2011/060308                                                           PCT/US2010/056598
Scheme 2.
                                                                /-OH
                                                                __-J
                       HOO
                                       "n                                  0
                                            HO          N 0
                                                                                   O
                                                                         N
                                                                     OO
 HO                  0O                     HO           O                          N          O
                                                      00                N0                     O
[0043]   In another aspect, as discussed above, the benzylic or allylic amide compound can
be incorporated into the polymer backbone itself. Such a polymer can be made, for example,
according to Scheme 3. As shown, terephthalic acid, ethylene glycol, and a benzylic amide
cmpound can be copolymerized under typical conditions for preparing polyesters.
  Scheme 3.
                                                             0                    0
                          HOO                                                     O
                 0 OH
                    -_
     HO             OH    +    HO__   OH                          N                         O
                                                  HO      --                               OH
                                        0                    0
                               O           N            N               O
                0o       0                                     -M       0m
[0044]   In another example, a star type polymer can be produced using a trimeric or higher
or benzylic or allylic amide compound. For example, as shown in Scheme 4, terephthalic acid
can be copolymerized with ethylene glycol and a trimeric benzylic amide compound having
three carboxylic acid groups. The resulting polymer will be a branched, star-type polymer as
                                               14

    WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
shown.
Scheme 4.
                                                              0                0
                                                     HO  0      N         N              OH
              HOOH           +    HOOH        +
                                                        HON
                   0~   H                                   0
                           00
                                    0         N           N
                                  XO0          0                       )y
                                                  N
                                       0
[0045]    Polyesters such as PET can be prepared by polymerization procedures known in the
art sufficient to effect esterification and polycondensation. Polyester melt phase
manufacturing processes include direct condensation of a dicarboxylic acid with a diol,
optionally in the presence of one or more esterification catalysts, in the esterification zone,
followed by polycondensation in the prepolymer and finishing zones in the presence of a
polycondensation catalyst; or ester exchange usually in the presence of a transesterification
catalyst in the ester exchange zone, followed by prepolymerization and polymerization in the
presence of a polycondensation catalyst.
[0046]    Also disclosed are compositions and articles made therefrom comprising the
polymer having the benzylic amide or allylic amide compound covalently bonded thereto.
Generally, the amide compound is present in the composition in an amount of from 0.1 to
about 10 weight percent. Thus, the desired amount of amide compound to be incorporated
into the polymer can be adjusted to achieve the desired amide compound weight percent in
the final composition or article. In one aspect, the amide compound is present in the
composition in an amount of from 1 to about 10 weight percent. In a further aspect, the amide
                                                  15

    WO 2011/060308                                                            PCT/US2010/056598
compound is present in the composition in an amount of from 1 to about 5 weight percent. In
a further aspect, the amide compound is present in the composition in an amount of from 1 to
about 3 weight percent.
[0047]    The amide compound can in certain aspects be complexed to the transition metal of
the composition. For example, the amide compound can be complexed to the transition metal
through one or more aryl groups, for example through pi-cloud complexation. The amide
compound can also be polymerized via complexation to the transition metal.
[0048]    The composition comprises the transition metal in a positive oxidation state. The
transition metal enhances the oxygen scavenging properties of the amide compound.
Amounts of transition metal in the composition can be greater than zero and can be up to
5000 ppm. Generally, the transition metal will be present in an amount of from about 10 ppm
to about 400 ppm. In one aspect, about 200 ppm of the transition metal is present. In a further
aspect, about 250 ppm of the transition metal is present. In wall applications (as opposed to
master batch applications where more transition metal is used), it can be preferred to keep the
level of metal below 300, more preferably 250 ppm. In a further aspect, the transition metal is
present from 30 to 150 ppm. In a further aspect, about 50 ppm of the transition metal is
present. In a further aspect, about 100 ppm of the transition metal is present. In a further
aspect, about 150 ppm of the transition metal is present.
[0049]    In one aspect, the transition metal can be a transition metal from the first, second, or
third transition series of the Periodic Table. The metal can be Rh, Ru, or one of the elements
in the series of Sc to Zn (e.g., Sc, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, and Zn). In one aspect, the
transition metal is cobalt. Cobalt can be used in +2 or +3 oxidation states. In some aspects, it
is preferred to use cobalt in the +2 oxidation state. In a further aspect, the transition metal is
rhodium. For example, rhodium in the +2 oxidation state can be used. The transition metal
can also be a positive oxidation form of zinc.
[0050]    The transition metal can be present as a salt. The cation of the salt can be the
transition metal in a positive oxidation state. A variety of anions can stabilize the positively
charged transition metal. Suitable anions for the salts include, but are not limited to, chloride,
acetate, oleate, stearate, palmitate, 2-ethylhexanoate, carboxylates, such as neodecanoates,
octanoates, acetates, lactates, naphthalates, malates, stearates, acetylacetonates, linoleates,
                                                 16

    WO 2011/060308                                                           PCT/US2010/056598
oleates, palmitates, 2-ethylhexanoates, or ethylene glycolates; or as their oxides, borates,
carbonates, dioxides, hydroxides, nitrates, phosphates, sulfates, or silicates, among others.
Representative transition metal salts include cobalt (II) 2-ethylhexanoate, cobalt oleate, and
cobalt (II) neodecanoate. The transition metal salt also can be an ionomer, in which case a
polymeric counter ion can be present.
[0051]    In one aspect, the composition can comprise a colorant in a visually effective
amount. A visually effective amount refers to an amount of colorant that results in the
composition or an article made therefrom appear colored to the naked eye. A composition
comprising a visually effective amount of colorant can refer to a composition having at least
0.01% by weight colorant. In a further aspect, the composition can comprise at least 0.25%
by weight colorant. In a still further aspect, the composition can comprise at least 0.5% by
weight colorant. The compositions can also comprise up to or even exceed about 3 % by
weight colorant.
[0052]    A visually effective amount can be determined, for example, by performing a
spectrophotometric scan of the composition or article using a wavelength range from 400 to
700 nm (visible region). Specific colors can be characterized according to their spectral
pattern. Every color also has its own characteristic L (lightness gradation), a (red to green)
and b (yellow to blue) numbers, which can be used to characterize the compositions and
articles.
[0053]    The colorant can be a variety of pigments and dyes, many of which are
commercially available. Examples of colorants include without limitation COLORMATRIX
Dark Amber, product code: 189-10034-6, COLORMATRIX Dead Leaf Green, product
codes: 284-2801-3 and 84-2801-1, AMERICHEM amber, product code: 59108-CD1,
Champaigne green, and COLORMATRIX amber, product code: 189-10100-1.
[0054]    The composition can include other components such as fillers, crystallization aids,
impact modifiers, surface lubricants, denesting agents, stabilizers, ultraviolet light absorbing
agents, metal deactivators, nucleating agents such as polyethylene and polypropylene,
phosphate stabilizers and dyestuffs. Typically, the total quantity of such components will be
less than about 10% by weight of the composition. In some embodiments, the amount of
these optional components is less than about 5% by weight of the composition.
                                                 17

    WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
[0055]    The composition can comprise a reheat additive. Reheat additives are commonly
used in the manufacture of polyester polymer compositions used to make stretch blow
molded bottles because the preforms made from the composition must be reheated prior to
entering the mold for stretch blowing into a bottle. Any conventional reheat additive can be
used, such as various forms of black particles, e.g., carbon black, activated carbon, black iron
oxide, glassy carbon, silicon carbide, gray particles such as antimony, and other reheat
additives such as silicas, red iron oxide, and the like.
[0056]    The composition can also comprise an impact modifier. Examples of typical impact
modifiers useful in the composition include ethylene/acrylate/glycidyl terpolymers and
ethylene/acrylate copolymers in which the acrylate is a methyl or ethyl acrylate or methyl or
ethyl methacrylate or the corresponding butyl acrylates, styrene based block copolymers, and
various acrylic core/shell type impact modifiers. The impact modifiers can be used in
conventional amounts from about 0.1 to about 25 weight percent of the overall composition
and, in some aspects, in amounts from about 0.1 to about 10 weight percent of the
composition.
[0057]    In many applications, not only are the packaging contents sensitive to the ingress of
oxygen, but the contents may also be affected by UV light. Fruit juices and pharmaceuticals
are two examples of such contents. Accordingly, in some aspects, it is desirable to
incorporate into the composition a UV absorbing compound in an amount effective to protect
the packaged contents.
[0058]    The composition or an article made therefrom preferably has an Oxygen
Transmission Rate (OTR) of less than about 0.1 (units of cc/pkg/day or 1- 5 cc-mm/m 2-day
atm) under standard conditions. In a further aspect, the OTR can be less than 0.03, less than
0.01, less than 0.005, or less than 0.001. The OTR is a measure of how well the amide
compound functions at scavenging oxygen that permeates the composition or article.
[0059]    When OTR is expressed for a given composition or article, the units
"cc/package/day" ("cc/pkg/day") are typically employed. The term package refers to a
barrier between an atmosphere of relatively lower oxygen content and an atomosphere of
relatively higher oxygen content. Typical barriers (e.g., packages) include bottles,
thermoformed containers, and films (e.g., shrink wrap).
                                                 18

    WO 2011/060308                                                         PCT/US2010/056598
[0060]    Oxygen Transmission Rate (oxygen permeation) can be measured, for example, as
described in U.S. Patent No. 5,021,515. A material of area A can be exposed to a partial
pressure p of oxygen on the one side and to an essentially zero partial pressure of oxygen on
the other side. The quantity of oxygen emerging on the latter side is measured and expressed
as a volume rate dV/dt, the volume being converted to some standard condition of
temperature and pressure. After a certain time of exposure (usually a period of a few days)
dV/dt is generally found to stabilize, and a Pw value can be calculated from equation below.
                                     dV/dt=PwAp              (1)
[0061]    Pw refers to the permeance of the wall. (Analogy with magnetic permeance and
electrical conductance would suggest that Pw should be described as "permeance per unit
area", but we are following the nomenclature in Encyclopaedia of Polymer Science and
Technology, Vol. 2, Wiley Interscience, 1985, page 178.) The standard conditions for
expressing dV/dt are 0 'C and 1 atm (1 atm=101 325 Nm-2). If the thickness of the area of
wall is substantially constant over the area A with value T and the wall is uniform through the
thickness (i.e., the wall is not a laminated or coated one) then the permeability of the material
in the direction normal to the wall is calculated from the equation below.
                                    dV/dt=PmAp/T              (2)
[0062]    For non-scavenging materials, Pw and PM are to a reasonable approximation
independent of t and p, and Pm of T although they are often appreciably dependent on other
conditions of the measurement such as the humidity of the atmosphere on the oxygen-rich
side and the temperature of the measurement.
[0063]    For oxygen-scavenging walls, Pw and PM are functions of t because the
concentrations and activity of scavenger vary with time (particularly as the scavenger is
consumed). This typically does not prevent measurement of Pw and Pm reasonably
accurately as a function of time, because the changes in dV/dt are relatively gradual once the
normal initial equilibration period of a few days is over. After a few days' exposure to the
measurement conditions, however, a non-scavenging material typically achieves a steady
state in which dV/dt is equal to the rate of oxygen ingress to the wall, while a scavenging
                                                 19

    WO 2011/060308                                                             PCT/US2010/056598
material achieves an (almost) steady state in which dV/dt is considerably less than the rate of
oxygen ingress to the material. This being the case, it is likely that Pw calculated from (1) is a
function of p as well as of t and that Pm in (2) is a function of p and T as well as of t. Pw and
Pm for scavenging materials are, strictly speaking, not true permeances and permeabilities at
all (since permeation and scavenging are occurring simultaneously) but, rather, apparent
ones.
[0064]    Values of Pw and PM (except where stated otherwise) are to be understood to refer to
conditions in which p=0.21 atm, the relative humidity on the oxygen-rich side of the wall is
50%, the temperature is 23 'C and (in the case of Pm values) the thickness of the material of
about 0.45 mm. Conditions close to the first three of these, at least, are conventional in the
packaging industry.
[0065]    For example, OTR can be measured for bottles, for example, by controlling the
atmosphere on both sides of a sample of bottles and measuring the rate of oxygen permeation
over time. Typically, the bottles are mounted on a plate such that there are two ports for gas
inlet and outlet. The interior of the bottles is separated from the exterior by an air tight seal.
After sealing, the interior of the bottle is flushed with N 2 gas (or N2 + H 2 mixture) to remove
any oxygen present before mounting on plate. The bottle is then placed in a controlled
environmental chamber (maintained at 23 'C and 50% RH) such that the exterior of the bottle
is at standard atmosphere with -21% oxygen. The interior of the bottle is continuously
flushed with N 2 (or N2 + H2) at a known gas flow rate. The outlet of the flushed gases
contains oxygen permeating through the bottle wall. This flushed gas from the bottle interior
is passed over a sensor that is calibrated to measure oxygen content of the flushed gas. Such
measurements of oxygen content are made continously over time until a steady state is
reached. This steady state value is typically reported as Oxygen Transmission Rate (OTR) for
that bottle in the units of cc/package/day. A preferred OTR for PET bottles is less than 0.1
cc/package/day; more preferred is less than 0.01 cc/package/day; most preferred for PET
bottles is less than 0.001 cc/package/day over the shelf life of the packaged product.
[0066]    In one aspect, a disclosed composition has an OTR of less than that of an otherwise
identical composition in the absence of the amide compound and the transition metal. In
further aspects, a disclosed composition has an OTR of less than about 75%, less than about
50%, less than about 25%, less than about 20%, less than about 10%, less than about 5%, or
                                                  20

    WO 2011/060308                                                           PCT/US2010/056598
less than about 1% of an otherwise identical composition in the absence of the amide
compound and the transition metal.
[0067]    For example, measurements of oxygen permeation can be made by methods
described, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 5,639,815, which is incorporated herein by this
reference for its teachings of oxygen permeability tests. Oxygen permeability tests are also
discusse din U.S. Patent 5,021,515, 5,034,252, 5,049,624, 5,159,005, 5,239,016, 5,639,815,
5,955,527, and U.S. Application Publication No. 2006/0180790, each of which is
incorporated herein by this reference for its teaching of oxygen permeability tests. Oxygen
permeability tests can also be carried out according to the method disclosed in
WO/2006/023583 at page 10.
[0068]    Various methods exist for making the composition. In one aspect, the composition
can be made by mixing the polymer (comprising the amide compound), and optionally the
transition metal, and optionally a colorant. In some aspects, some or part of the transition
metal may already be present in the polymer prior to mixing, for example if the transition
metal is used as a catalyst for making the base polymer. Other optional ingredients can be
added during this mixing process or added to the mixture after the aforementioned mixing or
to an individual component prior to the aforementioned mixing step.
[0069]    When melt processing is desired for the composition, the composition can also be
made by adding each ingredient separately and mixing the ingredients just prior to melt
processing the composition to form an article. In some embodiments, the mixing can be just
prior to the melt process zone. In other embodiments, one or more ingredients can be
premixed in a separate step prior to bringing all of the ingredients together.
[0070]    In some aspects, the transition metal can be added neat or in a carrier (such as a
liquid or wax) to an extruder or other device for making the article, or the metal can be
present in a concentrate or carrier with the polymer. It is desirable that the addition of the
transition metal does not substantially increase the intrinsic viscosity of the melt in the melt
processing zone. Thus, transition metal or metals can be added in two or more stages, such as
once during the melt phase for the production of the polymer and again once more to the
melting zone for making the article.
[0071]    The melt blend of the polymer and any other ingredients can also be prepared by
                                                21

    WO 2011/060308                                                            PCT/US2010/056598
adding the components at the throat of an injection molding machine that: (i) produces a
preform that can be stretch blow molded into the shape of the container, (ii) produces a film
that can be oriented into a packaging film, (iii) produces a sheet that can be thermoformed
into a food tray, or (iv) produces an injection molded container. The mixing section of the
extruder should be of a design to produce a homogeneous blend. Such process steps work
well for forming carbonated soft drink, water or beer bottles, packaging films and
thermoformed trays. The present invention can be employed in any of the conventional
known processes for producing a polymeric container, film, tray, or other article that would
benefit from oxygen scavenging.
[0072]    Various articles can be prepared from the disclosed compositions. Thus, the articles
prepared from the compositions will also have the composition present in the article. Suitable
articles include vessels and films, such as flexible sheet films, flexible bags, pouches, semi
rigid and rigid containers such as bottles (e.g. PET bottles) or metal cans, or combinations
thereof. Typical flexible films and bags include those used to package various food items and
can be made up of one or a multiplicity of layers to form the overall film or bag-like
packaging material. The composition of the present invention can be used in one, some or all
of the layers of such packaging material.
[0073]    Specific articles include preforms, containers and films for packaging of food,
beverages, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and personal care products where a high oxygen
barrier is needed. Examples of beverage containers are bottles for holding water and
carbonated soft drinks, and the invention is particularly useful in bottle applications
containing juices, sport drinks, beer or any other beverage where oxygen detrimentally affects
the flavor, fragrance, performance (e.g., vitamin degradation), or color of the drink. The
compositions are also particularly useful as a sheet for thermoforming into rigid packages and
films for flexible structures. Rigid packages include food trays and lids. Examples of food
tray applications include dual ovenable food trays, or cold storage food trays, both in the base
container and in the lidding (whether a thermoformed lid or a film), where the freshness of
the food contents can decay with the ingress of oxygen. The compositions can also be used in
the manufacture of cosmetic containers and containers for pharmaceuticals or medical
devices.
[0074]    Other suitable articles include rigid or semi-rigid articles including plastic, such as
                                                 22

    WO 2011/060308                                                            PCT/US2010/056598
those utilized for juices, soft drinks, as well as thermoformed trays or cup normally having
thickness in the range of from 100 to 1000 micrometers. The walls of such articles can
comprise single or multiple layers of materials. The article can also take the form of a bottle
or can, or a crown, cap, crown or cap liner, plastisol or gasket. The composition of the present
invention can be used as an integral layer or portion of, or as an external or internal coating or
liner of, the formed semi-rigid or rigid packaging article. As a liner, the composition can be
extruded as a film along with the rigid article itself, e.g., by coextrusion, extrusion coating, or
an extrusion lamination process, so as to form the liner in situ during article production; or
alternatively can be adhered by heat and/or pressure, by adhesive, or by any other suitable
method.
[0075]     When the compositions are used in a wall or as a layer of a wall, the permeability of
the composition for oxygen is advantageously not more than about 3.0, or about 1.7, or about
0.7, or about 0.2, or about 0.03 cm 3 -mm/(m 2-atm-day). In some aspects, the permeability of
the composition is not more than about three-quarters of that in the absence of the amide
compound. In some aspects, the permeability is not more than about one half, one-tenth in
certain embodiments, one twenty-fifth in other embodiments, and not more than one
hundredth of that in the absence of the amide compound.
[0076]     Although it can be preferable from the standpoint of packaging convenience and/or
scavenging effectiveness to employ the present invention as an integral or discrete part of the
packaging wall, the invention can also be used as a non-integral component of a packaging
article such as, for example, a bottle cap liner, adhesive or non-adhesive sheet insert, sealant,
sachet, fibrous mat insert or the like.
[0077]     Besides articles applicable for packaging food and beverage, articles for packaging
other oxygen-sensitive products can also benefit from the present invention. Such products
would include pharmaceuticals, oxygen sensitive medical products, corrodible metals or
products, electronic devices and the like.
[0078]     In a further aspect, the composition can be used as a master batch for blending with
a polymer or a polymer containing component. In such compositions, the concentration of the
amide compound and the transition metal will be high enough to allow for the final blended
product to have suitable amounts of these components. The master batch can also contain an
                                                  23

    WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
amount of the base polymer with which the master batch is blended.
[0079]    Oxygen permeability of an article can be maintained for a longer period of time by
storing the article in a sealed container or under an inert atmosphere such as nitrogen prior to
use with oxygen sensitive materials.
[0080]    The articles can be made by various methods known in the art. Generally, the
articles are prepared by melt processing methods (i.e., a melt of the composition). Such
processes generally include injection molding, stretch blow molding, extrusion,
thermoforming, extrusion blow molding, and (specifically for multilayer structures) co
extrusion and lamination using adhesive tie layers. Orientation, e.g., by stretch blow molding,
of the polymer can be used with phthalate polyesters because of the known mechanical
advantages that result.
[0081]    The melt processing zone for making the article can be operated under customary
conditions effective for making the intended articles, such as preforms, bottles, trays, and
other articles mentioned above. In one aspect, such conditions are effective to process the
melt without substantially increasing the intrinsic viscosity of the melt and which are
ineffective at promoting transesterification reactions. In some preferred aspects, suitable
operating conditions effective to establish a physical blend of the base polymer, oxidizable
organic component, and transition metal are temperatures in the melt processing zone within
a range of about 250 'C to about 300 'C at a total cycle time of less than about 6 minutes, and
typically without the application of vacuum and under a positive pressure ranging from about
0 psig (pound-force per square inch gauge) to about 900 psig. In some embodiments, the
residence time of the melt on the screw can range from about 1 to about 4 minutes.
EXPERIMENTAL
[0082]    The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the
art with a complete disclosure and description of how the compounds, compositions, articles,
devices and/or methods claimed herein are made and evaluated, and are intended to be purely
exemplary and are not intended to limit the disclosure. Efforts have been made to ensure
accuracy with respect to numbers (e.g., amounts, temperature, etc.), but some errors and
deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight,
temperature is in 'C or is at ambient temperature, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
                                                24

    WO 2011/060308                                                        PCT/US2010/056598
[0083]     EXAMPLE 1
[0084]     80 grams of bis(2-hydroxyethyl) terephthalate (BHET) (0.3147 moles) and 0.0123g
Sb 2 O 3 (132 ppm Antimony, Sb) were charged into a 250 ml 3-neck flask. The flask was
equipped with a mechanical stirrer and Dean-Stark receiver was purged with nitrogen, stirred
and heated to 260'C. The condensation polymerization was allowed for 1.5 hours and then
was kept for another 1 hour under vacuum to remove the generated ethylene glycol. The
system was then cooled down to 190'C. 6 grams of DCX-320 (half-amide) was dissolved in
50 ml DMSO and added to the flask. With reflux, the solvent - DMSO was continuously
distilled out. Meanwhile, the formed ethylene glycol was also distilled off along with DMSO
via the formation of an azeotrope. 4 hours after addition of DCX-320, some fresh DMSO was
added into the system to dilute the polymer solution and then the polymer was precipitated
into methanol. The unreacted DCX-320 and solvent DMSO were extracted by methanol
under refulx. The extraction was repeated 3 times. The purified polymer was dried in vacuo
at 100'C overnight and 62 grams of dry polymer was obtained.
[0085]     The resulting polymer was characterized using GPC (with polystyrene as standard).
The number average molecular weight (Mn) was found to be 6300 daltons and weight
average molecular weight was found to be 9300 daltons. The polydispersity index was
calculated to be 1.48.
[0086]     Elemental analysis of the resulting polymer showed Carbon % to be 61.1%,
Hydrogen % to be 4.78% and Nitrogen % to be 0.51%. Since PET does not have any nitrogen
atoms, the presence of nitrogen confirms the end-capping reaction with DCX-320. Since
there are 2 nitrogen atoms in each DCX-320 molecule, it is possible to estimate the degree of
end-capping in the synthesized polymer as follows:
                  (X/6300)*100% = 0.51% (N content from elemental analysis)
The weight of nitrogen atoms in each DCX-320 end-capped PET molecule is X=32.13.
Comparing to the fully double end-capped chain with nitrogen weight of 56, the actual DCX
320 end-cap degree is (32.13/56)*100 = 57.4%.
[0087]     The reaction scheme is shown below:
                                                25

   WO 2011/060308                                                          PCT/US2010/056598
                  0
   HO      0
                                 0      OH       -OHC2H40H
                                                 Sb2O3, 260C, vacuum
                    00
       HO0
              OO
                                             O    H    +
            -                  -   n
                                                                     0
                                   H2N                          N
                                                         DCX-320
                  -OHC2H40H
                 DMSO, 180 C
              0
HO       0                                     0
                                         OH
                             O                                         N                  N
                                  n-1
                                                                         o                    0
[0088]   EXAMPLE 2:
The polymer synthesized in example 1 was used to make injection molded plaques on a BOY
22S. This polymer was vacuum dried at 1 10 C for 24 hours to remove residual solvent. The
PET resin used was Eastman's Vitiva Tm resin. It was dried at 250'F for ~ 15 hours then dried
                                             26

at 350'F for 2 hours prior to use. Cobalt catalyst was added in a PET masterbatch form, such
that the cobalt levels in the final plaque is 80 ppm. A batch was prepared of the hot, dry PET,
PET based Cobalt Masterbatch and 1 wt% of the dried polymer synthesized in Example 1.
Plaques were injection molded on a BOY 22S injection molding machine. The
[0089] Plaques formed from Example 2 were collected and tested for oxygen scavenging
ability using Oxysense TM. The plaques were ground to fine powder, placed in a sealed glass
vial, with a photoluminescent window on the wall. The intensity of the light reflected from
the photoluminescent window is proportional to the oxygen content in the vial. The
Oxysense TM data for the above polymer composition and a control composition comprised of
Constar International's DC-100 is shown in Figure 1. As seen from the data of Figure 1, the
polymer composition of Example 2 does scavenge oxygen when melt-blended with cobalt
catalyst in a PET matrix.
[0090] It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations
can be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the
invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art
from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is
intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a true
scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
[0091] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
[0092] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                 27
10435621_1 (GHMatters) P90673.AU.1

   WO 2011/060308                                                               PCT/US2010/056598
                                              CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.    A thermoplastic polymer comprising an allylic or benzylic amide compound
      covalently bonded as a repeating unit in the polymer chain, covalently bonded thereto
      as a side-chain pendant group, or covalently bonded thereto as an end group of the
      polymer.
2.    The polymer of claim 1, wherein the repeating unit, end group, or the side-chain
      pendant group of the polymer comprises a residue represented by the formula:
                           X          R             R),-    D      X        R2
                                D                              -RX)R2
           (R1)mN                       1          (R2mN                           n
                      Fz, N          ~                                  YA
        a.                                  n  or                   X
               wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
           single or a double bond; wherein n is 3, 4, 5, or 6; wherein m is an integer from 0
           to 6-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of 0,
           S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from
           the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D, E, and F are independently
           selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S; and wherein each R and
           each R 2 is independently selected from the group consisting of carboxylic acid,
           amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl, electron withdrawing groups,
           electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
                           x (')03     XR2x                      ,yQ(R  2
                                                                          )0-3       x  R
             B1
                    NDR             N                    BR   N'                 N
                    N=     EF                                                          B
                   AYX                    Y=A                               X    R2   Y~
                               N                                       N
        b.                         Y=A              or                         Y=A
                                                  28

WO 2011/060308                                                               PCT/US2010/056598
                                                                X       R2
            ().D
       (R 1)m <
                      _X
                       N
                                  BR)
                                          nE
                                                       D
                                                       . F
                                                               N     I
              E:11F            YAn
                                       n                         x
             L
                                  R]
                                                                        R2
                        X
    c (          D     N
                       N          ~  in
                                     .. n    or
                                                 (R)mE   ,F
                                                            -
                                                                N
                                                                 X-             ,
            wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
        single or a double bond; wherein each n is independently 1-5; wherein m is an
        integer from 0 to 5-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group
        consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are
        independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D,
        E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
        S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
        consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl,
        electron withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
        and wherein L is a divalent linking group selected from C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ether, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2
        C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12 aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester;
             F     x        (R1 )mn           R1     R         (R1)m    -       /BR
                   N               N               N                       N
    d.                                                                                     or
           D2        x         (R2)m              R2    R2X(R)
                 IN      <D/>--NN                    L             N            N
               A YE,         zF          Y       -A     AI    L        F,,,E             A
                    x     n              xX                                       x           n
            wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
        single or a double bond; wherein each n is independently 0-5; wherein m is an
        integer from 0 to 5-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group
                                                  29

   WO 2011/060308                                                        PCT/US2010/056598
           consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are
           independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D,
           E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
           S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
           consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl,
           electron withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
           and wherein L is a divalent linking group selected from C2-C12 aliphatic or
           cyclic ether, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2
           C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12 aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or
           cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester; or
                               X X                           D
                    NBN                                 N-%        N
        e.                  R1             or          X           X
              wherein each X is selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH;
           wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from the group
           consisting of N and CR ; wherein D, E, and F are independently selected from
           the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S; wherein the symbol --- when used in
           conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a double bond; and wherein
           each R1 is independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, aryl,
           electron withdrawing groups, and electron releasing groups.
3.    A composition comprising the polymer of claim 1 or 2.
4.    The composition of claim 3, further comprising a base polymer.
5.    The composition of claim 3, wherein the base polymer is a polyester.
6.    The composition of claim 3, wherein the base polymer is polyethylene terephthalate.
7.    The composition of claim 3, wherein the composition has an OTR of less than about
      0.1 cc/package/day.
8.    The composition of claim 3, further comprising a visually effective amount of
      colorant.
                                              30

    WO 2011/060308                                                         PCT/US2010/056598
9.     The composition of claim 3, further comprising a transition metal in a positive
       oxidation state, the metal present in an amount of from about 10 ppm to about 400
       ppm.
10.    The composition of claim 9, wherein the transition metal is cobalt.
11.    The composition of claim 9, wherein the transition metal further comprises zinc.
12.    The composition of claim 9, wherein the concentration of transition metal is 30 to 150
       ppm.
13.    An article made from the composition of any of claims 3-12.
14.    The article of claim 13, dimensioned as a vessel.
15.    The article of claim 13, dimensioned as a film.
16.    A method of making an oxygen scavenging polymer comprising the step of providing
       a monomer comprising a moiety having the structure:
                            XX                                           R2
                    D                            (R2)m  -- IK -I_>
            (R1)mN                     1N                                      n
                         E   F                              F            A
         a.                             n    or                   X
                wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
            single or a double bond; wherein n is 3, 4, 5, or 6; wherein m is an integer from 0
            to 6-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of 0,
            S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from
            the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D, E, and F are independently
            selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S; and wherein each R and
            each R 2 is independently selected from the group consisting of carboxylic acid,
            amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl, electron withdrawing groups,
            electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
                                                31

WO 2011/060308                                                                       PCT/US2010/056598
                         x('03         Xx                                    (R')0-3      x
                  N                               NN    B                             N
                            EF     N                                   E/I'~
            B\                           Y   B            A      ~x             x           Y
                            N        R                                        N       R2
                                                                            x
    b.                            Y=A                or
                                                   2
                                                                   X
                                                                   XC          R
                                         1        ~(R)"  <D>
                       LL
              E7:11F     X      fY    in
                                           .   ~        E.         nFrX        R
    c.(R)       D       N           Br(R2mE                       N                  n
           wherein the symbol -- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
        single or a double x bond;1     wherein2 each n is independently 1-5; wherein m is an
        integer from 0 to 5-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group
        consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are
        independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D,
        E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
                 _D
                               1
                                )                (R          DR)
        S; wherein          R N andNReach R2 is Lindependently
                  )'N each DI                              ,     N selected
                                                                        D      Afrom the-Agroup
        consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl,
        electron withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
        and wherein L is a divalent linking group selected from C2-C 12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ether, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2
        C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6         -   C12 aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester;
              AEy F       \A F                          At           F      E           I/A
    d.                                                                                        "   or
                                                  32

    WO 2011/060308                                                         PCT/US2010/056598
                                (R2)m                             (R2)m
              R2        X                      R2      R2       X                 X2
                    IF
                    1N
                  A YE,-z        F
                                      N
                                        Y   - -A
                                                   L
                                                     A
                                                                N
                                                                      F,-,E
                                                                                 N
                                                                                        A
                       x    n          x                       x                    x         n
               wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
            single or a double bond; wherein each n is independently 0-5; wherein m is an
            integer from 0 to 5-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group
            consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are
            independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D,
            E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
            S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
            consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl,
            electron withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
            and wherein L is a divalent linking group selected from C2-C12 aliphatic or
            cyclic ether, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2
            C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12 aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or
            cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester; or
                           XD2                          X            X          2
         e.                                 or          X             X           ,
               wherein each X is selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH;
            wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from the group
            consisting of N and CR1 ; wherein D, E, and F are independently selected from
            the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S; wherein the symbol     ---  when used in
            conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a double bond; and wherein
            each R1 is independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, aryl,
            electron withdrawing groups, and electron releasing groups.
         during polymerization of polyethylene terephthalate.
17.    A method of making an oxygen scavenging polymer comprising the step of
       functionalizing polyethylene terephthalate with a moiety having the structure:
                                               33

WO 2011/060308                                                              PCT/US2010/056598
                                 -                          -    X        R2
                                   RX              2
                                                 (R )     D               B
         (R1)mR                                                 N
                     Fz, N
                     Et            A                                      A
     a.n                                     or                  X
             wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
          single or a double bond; wherein n is 3, 4, 5, or 6; wherein m is an integer from 0
          to 6-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group consisting of 0,
          S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from
          the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D, E, and F are independently
          selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S; and wherein each R and
          each R 2 is independently selected from the group consisting of carboxylic acid,
          amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl, electron withdrawing groups,
          electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
                           x('03X2x                                 (R2)0-3      x
                   N       D                    N     BN                     N
                                 N                    B\F           -FB
           AY                          Y=A             ARY                       B
                             N       \\BN
                                                                               \\R
                                                                   x
    b.                          Y-A               or
                                                              X       R
        (R 1 )m          N               n         2            NX      2
      c'.
               c.
                                     -.
                                       n   orX            F
                                                               x      A
                  D      NR)                   (R )m    E       N]
             wherein the symbol    ---  when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
          single or a double bond; wherein each n is independently 1-5; wherein m is an
          integer from 0 to 5-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group
          consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are
          independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D,
          E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
                                                34

WO 2011/060308                                                        PCT/US2010/056598
        S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
        consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl,
        electron withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
        and wherein L is a divalent linking group selected from C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ether, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2
        C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12 aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester;
              F    x      (R')m,        R1     R         (R1)m    -       /BR
                    N            N           N                      N
    d.                                                                                or
           D2         x      (R2)m          R2     R2X(R)
                  , N              N           L             N            N
               A YE,        zF       Y     -A      AI   L       F,,,E              A
                     x  n                                  x               x
           wherein the symbol --- when used in conjunction with a bond line represents a
        single or a double bond; wherein each n is independently 0-5; wherein m is an
        integer from 0 to 5-n; wherein each X is independently selected from the group
        consisting of 0, S, and NH; wherein each Y, each A, and each B are
        independently selected from the group consisting of N, CR1 , and CR 2 ; wherein D,
        E, and F are independently selected from the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and
        S; wherein each R and each R2 is independently selected from the group
        consisting of carboxylic acid, amine, nitro, cyano, hydroxyl, H, alkyl, aryl,
        electron withdrawing groups, electron releasing groups, and a transition metal;
        and wherein L is a divalent linking group selected from C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ether, C2-C12 aliphatic or cyclic amide, C6 to C12 aromatic amide, C2
        C12 aliphatic or cyclic amine, C6 - C12 aromatic amine, C2-C12 aliphatic or
        cyclic ester and C6 to C12 aromatic ester; or
                   N          N    I                 N-        N
    e.                   R1              or         X           X
                                            35

WO 2011/060308                                                        PCT/US2010/056598
           wherein each X is selected from the group consisting of 0, S, and NH;
        wherein each Y, each A, and each B are independently selected from the group
        consisting of N and CR ; wherein D, E, and F are independently selected from
        the group consisting of CH, N, 0, and S; wherein the symbol --- when used in
        conjunction with a bond line represents a single or a double bond; and wherein
        each R1 is independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, aryl,
        electron withdrawing groups, and electron releasing groups.
                                          36

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
