                                 MARKER PLACEMENT
                                        ABSTRACT
        A method for placing a set of one or more markers in a luminal network in a patient's
body, the method comprising using at least one hardware processor (204) for: receiving
image data of the anatomy of a luminal network of a patient and a location of at least one
target in said luminal network anatomy; obtaining a rule set defining one or more rules for
placing said set of one or more markers in said luminal network anatomy and with respect to
said at least one target; during a survey performed by a user via a navigation system in a
portion of the luminal network surrounding said at least one target, acquiring, via said
navigation system, sample-locations in the surveyed portion of the luminal network; and
identifying a set of one or more marker locations for placing said set of one or more markers
from said acquired sample-locations, which complies with said rule set.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                 1
                                   MARKER PLACEMENT
                                            BACKGROUND
[0001]          This patent application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Technical Field
[0002]          The present disclosure relates to the field of placing markers in a body region
for therapeutic purposes and to Electromagnetic Navigation (EMN)                assisted marker
placement, in particular.
Description of Related Art
[0003]          A common device for inspecting and navigating the airway of a patient is a
bronchoscope. Typically, the bronchoscope is inserted into a patient's airways through the
patient's nose or mouth and can extend into the lungs of the patient. A typical bronchoscope
includes an elongated flexible tube having an illumination assembly for illuminating the
region distal to the bronchoscope's tip, an imaging assembly for providing a video image
from the bronchoscope's tip, and a working channel through which instruments, e.g.,
diagnostic instruments such as biopsy tools and therapeutic instruments may be inserted.
[0004]          In navigating to a target, bronchoscopes, however, are limited in how far they
may be advanced through the airways due to their size. Where the bronchoscope is too large
to reach a target location deep in the lungs a clinician may utilize certain real-time imaging
modalities such as fluoroscopy. Fluoroscopic images, while useful present certain drawbacks
for navigation as it is often difficult to distinguish luminal passageways from solid tissue.
Moreover, the images generated by the fluoroscope are two-dimensional whereas navigating
the airways of a patient requires the ability to maneuver in three dimensions.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                2
[00051          To address these aforementioned issues, systems and methods have been
developed that enable the development of three-dimensional models of the airways or other
luminal networks, typically from a series of computed tomography (CT) images. One such
system has been developed as part of the ILOGIC@ ELECTROMAGNETIC NAVIGATION
BRONCHOSCOPY@ (ENBTM), system currently sold by Covidien LP. The details of such
a system are described in the commonly assigned U.S. Patent No. 7,233,820 filed on March
29, 2004 to Gilboa and entitled ENDOSCOPE STRUCTURES AND TECHNIQUES FOR
NAVIGATING TO A TARGET IN BRANCHED STRUCTURE, the contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0006]          Actual and potential uses for Electromagnetic Navigation Bronchoscopy (ENB)
may include biopsy of peripheral lung lesions, pleural dye marking of nodules for surgical
wedge resection, placement of fiducial markers for stereotactic radiotherapy, and therapeutic
insertion of brachytherapy catheters into malignant tissue.
[0007]          In particular, the benefits of using ENB to place fiducial markers for
stereotactic radiotherapy or radiosurgery is becoming increasingly recognized. An example
for a radiosurgery system is the Cyberknife@ system (manufactured by Accuray Inc.,
Sunnyvale, Calif.). Treatment for inoperable lung cancer using stereotactic radio surgery
rather than external beam radiotherapy allows delivery of precisely targeted radiation to the
tumor while minimizing dosage to adjacent tissue. Nevertheless, fiducial markers first have to
be accurately placed, either transthoracically, intravascularly, or bronchoscopically, to enable
tracking of the tumor. Despite the latter being the safest method, bronchoscopically placed
markers are essentially placed "blindly" because the tumor cannot be directly visualized.
Using the navigational ability of ENB may improve placement accuracy.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                 3
[00081          While the system as described in U.S. Patent No. 7,233,820 is quite capable,
there is always a need for development of improvements and additions to such systems.
[0009]          It is an object of the present invention to substantially satisfy the above need,
at least to an extent.
                                           SUMMARY
[0010]          There is provided in accordance with the present disclosure, a method for
placing a set of one or more markers in a luminal network in a patient's body, the method
comprising using at least one hardware processor for: receiving image data of the anatomy of
a luminal network of a patient and a location of at least one target in said luminal network
anatomy; obtaining a rule set defining one or more rules for placing said set of one or more
markers in said luminal network anatomy and with respect to said at least one target; during
a survey performed by a user via a navigation system in a portion of the luminal network
surrounding said at least one target, acquiring, via said navigation system, sample-locations
in the surveyed portion of the luminal network; and identifying a set of one or more marker
locations for placing said set of one or more markers from said acquired sample-locations,
which complies with said rule set.
[0011]          There is further provided in accordance with the present disclosure, a system
for navigating to a target through a luminal network in a patient's body, the system
comprising: a navigation system configured to navigate through said luminal network; and a
workstation in operative communication with said navigation system, the workstation
comprising: (i) a storage device having stored thereon instructions for: receiving image data
of the anatomy of the luminal network and a location of at least one target in said thoracic
anatomy, obtaining a rule set defining one or more rules for placing a set of one or more
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               4
markers in said luminal network anatomy and with respect to said at least one target, during a
survey performed by a user in a portion of said luminal network surrounding said target while
using said navigation system, acquiring, via said navigation system, sample-locations in the
surveyed portion of the luminal network, and identifying a set of one or more marker
locations for placing said set of one or more markers from said acquired sample-locations,
which comply with said rule set, and (ii) at least one hardware processor configured to
execute said instructions.
[0012]          There is further provided in accordance with the present disclosure, a
computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by at least one
hardware processor to: receive image data of a body region of a patient comprising a luminal
network and at least one target location in said body region; obtain a rule set defining one or
more rules for placing a set of one or more markers in said body region and with respect to
said at least one target; during a survey performed by a user via a navigation system in the
luminal network surrounding said target, acquire, via said navigation system, sample
locations in the surveyed lumens of said luminal network; and identify a set of one or more
marker locations for placing said set of said one or more markers from said acquired sample
locations, which comply with said rule set.
[0013]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said one or more marker locations
are one or more marker regions, and wherein each of said one or more marker regions
comprises a plurality of locations which comply with said rule set.
[0014]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said one or more marker regions
are spheres having a radius size selected from the group consisting of: up to 7 mm and 7 mm
+  1 mm.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                5
[00151          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said method further comprises
using said at least one hardware processor for generating a display comprising the path of
said survey superimposed on said image data of said luminal network anatomy, and wherein
said path is comprised of said acquired sample-locations.
[0016]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said method further comprises
using said at least one hardware processor for: generating a display comprising indications of
said one or more marker locations superimposed on said image data of said luminal network
anatomy; and instructing said user in placing said one or more markers in said one or more
marker locations via said display.
[0017]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said user is instructed to place at
least one of said one or more markers in tissue external to said luminal network, in the
vicinity of said one or more marker locations.
[0018]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said user fails to place a marker of
said one or more markers in a marker location of said set of one or more marker locations, the
method further comprising using said at least one hardware processor for: acquiring a current
location of said user in said luminal network anatomy; if said current location complies with
said rule set, determining said current location as the marker location for said marker; and
identifying marker locations from said acquired sample-locations for placing non placed
markers of said set of one or more markers, wherein said identifying of said marker locations
is performed with respect to said current location and in accordance with said rule set.
[0019]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said rule set comprises rules
selected from the group consisting of: distance of each of said one or more markers from said
target, distance between each two of said one or more markers, an angle separation between
two of said one or more markers and a diameter of a lumen of said luminal network.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                6
[00201          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said method further comprises
using said at least one hardware processor for: obtaining data comprising a location of a
previous marker which was previously placed in said patient's luminal network; and if said
previous marker location complies with said rule set, determining said previous marker as a
marker of said set of one or more markers which is placed in a marker location, wherein
identifying of the remainder of said one or more marker locations is performed with respect
to said previous marker location and said rule set.
[0021]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said acquiring of said
sample-locations and said identifying of said set of one or more marker locations comprise
repeatedly acquiring a plurality of sample locations until at least one set of one or more
marker locations complying with said rule set is identified in the acquired sample locations.
[0022]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said luminal network is the airways
in said patient's thorax.
[0023]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said luminal network is said
patient's bronchial tree and wherein: said navigation system comprises: a bronchoscope
configured for insertion into a patient's bronchial tree, the bronchoscope defining a working
channel; and a locatable guide insertable into the working channel of the bronchoscope and
configured to navigate through the patient's bronchial tree, the locatable guide comprising a
location sensor, said workstation is in operative communication with the locatable guide and
the bronchoscope, said survey is performed by said user in the airways of the patient's
bronchial tree surrounding said target while using said locatable guide, and said acquiring of
said sample-locations is performed via said location sensor.
[0024]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said system further comprises a
display, wherein said storage device has further instructions stores thereon for: displaying on
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                7
said display indications of said one or more marker locations superimposed on said image
data of said thoracic anatomy; and instructing said user in placing said one or more markers
in said one or more marker locations via said display.
[0025]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said storage device has further
instructions stores thereon for displaying on said display the path of said survey
superimposed on said image data of said thoracic anatomy, and wherein said path is
comprised of said acquired sample-locations.
[0026]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said user fails to place a marker of
said set of said one or more markers in a marker location of said set of said one or more
marker locations, and wherein said storage device has stored thereon further instructions for:
acquiring a current location of said marker in said thoracic anatomy; and if said current
location complies with said rule set, determining said current location as the marker location
for said marker; and identifying of marker locations from said acquired sample-locations for
placing non placed markers of said set of one or more markers, wherein said identifying of
said marker locations is performed with respect to said current location and in accordance
with said rule set.
[0027]          In another aspect of the present disclosure, said storage device has further
instructions stores thereon for: obtaining data comprising a location of a previous marker
which was previously placed in said patient's thorax; and if said previous marker location
complies with said rule set, determining said previous marker as a marker of said set of said
one or more markers which is placed in a marker location, wherein identifying of the
remainder of said one or more marker locations is performed with respect to said previous
marker location and said rule set.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                  8
[00281          Any of the above aspects and embodiments of the present disclosure may be
combined without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0029]          Various exemplary embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying figures
with the intent that these examples not be restrictive. It will be appreciated that for simplicity
and clarity of the illustration, elements shown in the figures referenced below are not
necessarily drawn to scale. Also, where considered appropriate, reference numerals may be
repeated among the figures to indicate like, corresponding or analogous elements. The figures
are listed below.
[0030]          Fig. 1 is a perspective view of an exemplary electromagnetic navigation
system in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0031]          Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram of a workstation configured for use with the
system of Fig. 1;
[0032]          Fig. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an exemplary method for placing one or more
markers in a patient's thorax in accordance with the present disclosure;
[0033]          Fig. 4 shows a screen shot of an exemplary display, which is presented during
a survey performed by a user;
[0034]          Fig. 5 shows a screen shot of an exemplary display, which presents the user
with an exemplary suggested set of marker locations; and
[0035]          Fig. 6 shows a screen shot of an exemplary display, presenting a locatable
guide in a marker location.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                 9
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00361           The description    that follows provides       various details    of exemplary
embodiments. However, this description is not intended to limit the scope of the claims but
instead to explain various principles of the invention and the manner of practicing it.
[0037]           Although embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard,
discussions utilizing terms such as, for example, "processing," "computing," "calculating,"
"determining," "inferring", "deducing", "establishing", "analyzing", "checking", or the like,
may refer to operation(s) and/or process(es) of a computer, a computing platform, a
computing system, or other electronic computing device, that manipulate and/or transform
data represented as physical (e.g., electronic) quantities within the computer's registers and/or
memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer's
registers and/or memories or other information non-transitory storage medium that may store
instructions to perform operations         and/or processes. Unless       explicitly stated, the
embodiments of methods described herein are not constrained to a particular order or
sequence of steps, operations or procedures. Additionally, some of the described method
embodiments or elements thereof can occur or be performed at the same point in time.
[0038]           Disclosed herein is a method, a system and a computer program product for
placing a set of one or more markers in a region of a body, which includes a luminal network
(e.g., the bronchial tree or the cardiovascular system). The disclosed marker placement may
guide and/or aid a user, typically a physician, in placing a set of markers in the body region
(e.g., the thorax) through its luminal network (e.g., the bronchial tree) via a navigation system
and according to a predefined rule set. Such a rule set may be derived, for example, from
anatomical constraints, the purpose of the marker placement and/or the requirements of a
therapeutic device or tool to be used with the markers. Such a rule set may include rules
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                 10
relating to a deployment of the markers in a specific geometrical structure, minimal and/or
maximal distance and/or angle between the deployed markers and/or minimal distance
between the deployed markers and blood vessels or other body organs or regions of interest
and the like.
[00391          For example, the Cyberknife@ system may be used to treat tumors in the lungs
by delivering beams of high dose radiation to the tumors. This treatment may require a
preliminary procedure of placement of fiducial markers in order to identify the exact location
of the tumor (i.e., a target) during the treatment. The placement of the fiducial markers should
be according to the system predefined requirements. Such exemplary requirements include:
placing three fiducial markers more than 20 millimeters (mm) apart and with a separation of
an angle of more than 150 and at a distance between 25 to 55 mm from the center of the target.
[0040]          Without any guidance, i.e., by using visual estimation only, placement of the
fidcucial markers according to such requirements may be a difficult and a complex task for
the physician and may result in an inaccurate placement. Inaccurate placement may reduce
the efficiency of the treatment and even cause unnecessary damage to the patient. Thus,
providing the physician with a suggestion for a layout of the markers in the desired body
region, which complies with the requirements, may be of great benefit.
[0041]          However, due to the branched and tapering structure of the bronchial tree, a
physician may not necessarily be able to navigate to such one or more suggested marker
locations. Furthermore, 3D models of bronchial trees may typically model only a portion of
the bronchial tree (for example, due to blurry images or an obstruction) and may lack at least
its most peripheral parts.     Typically, such suggestions for marker locations are based on
locations identified via such models. Thus, such suggestions may not consider locations
which are not included in the 3D model of the bronchial tree, and therefore may miss
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                11
locations for placing markers (or a layout of such) which may be better or more suitable to
the task in hand.
[0042]          The disclosed marker placement provides a user (e.g., a physician or a care
giver) with a suggestion for a layout of a predefined set of markers in a desired body region
which complies with a predefined rule set. The suggested layout is based on locations
sampled during a dedicated survey conducted by the user in the vicinity of the target and in
real time (i.e., proximate to the time of the actual placement of the makers). Thus, the
suggested layout necessarily includes locations which have recently been visited by the user
and therefore have high probability of being reached again. Moreover, the sampled locations
may extend beyond the 3D model and since the locations are sampled in real time, they may
further comply with the current location, position and/or state of the patient's airways.
[00431          In addition, the disclosed marker placement provides real-time guidance to a
user during the deployment of the markers, which may provide great user flexibility in
placing of the markers. In case the user fails to deploy a marker in a suggested location, e.g.,
since the user can not currently reach the location, the disclosed marker placement may
provide a new suggestion which incorporates the current location of the user (i.e., the current
location of a locatable guide operated by the user), whether this current location was acquired
previously by the system during the user's survey, or not.
[0044]          According to the disclosed marker placement, a user may be instructed to use
a navigation system, e.g., an ENB system, to navigate to a target in a patient's thorax. Next,
the user may be instructed to perform a survey in a portion of the luminal network
surrounding the target, i.e., the airways surrounding the target. A suggestion or a
recommendation for placing a predefined number of markers, i.e., a set of markers, proximal
to the target may be then introduced to the user (e.g., on a display via a user interface) based
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                12
on the survey. The user may confirm the suggestion. The user may then navigate to a marker
location via the ENB system. Once the user arrives at the marker location, he may deploy a
marker in this location. A display may provide real-time feedback to the user including the
progress and/or path of navigation, success or failure of marker deployment in a marker
location and if other locations, indicated by the user, may be used as alternative marker
locations.
[0045]           The term "marker", as referred to herein, may relate to any therapeutic or
therapeuticly related element that may be deployed, placed or released in a patient's body,
including a fiducial marker and a therapeutic agent (e.g., a medicament).
[00461           The term "set" and "layout", as referred to herein with respect to markers or
locations may relate to one or more markers or locations.
[00471           The term "target", as referred to herein, may relate to any element or a region
of interest in a patient's body, and may include a clinical finding such as a tumor.
[00481           The terms "deployed", "placed", or "positioned" and their derivations may
be used interchangeably with respect to markers throughout the application.
[0049]           An Electro-Magnetic Navigation (EMN) procedure generally involves at least
two phases: (1) planning a pathway to a target located within, or adjacent to, the patient's
airways; and (2) navigating a locatable guide to the target along the planned pathway. These
phases are generally referred to as (1) "planning" and (2) "navigation". The planning phase of
an EMN procedure is more fully described in commonly-owned U.S. Patent Application
Serial Nos. 13/838,805; 13/838,997; and 13/839,224, all entitled "Pathway Planning System
and Method", filed on March 15, 2013, by Baker, the entire contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               13
[00501          Prior to the planning phase, the patient's lungs are imaged by, for example, a
computed tomography (CT) scan, although additional applicable methods of imaging will be
known to those skilled in the art. The image data assembled during the CT scan may then be
stored in, for example, the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM)
format, although additional applicable formats will be known to those skilled in the art. The
CT scan image data may then be loaded into a planning software application ("application")
to be used during the planning phase of the ENB procedure.
[00511          With reference to Fig. 1, an exemplary electromagnetic navigation (EMN)
system 10 is provided in accordance with the present disclosure. One such ENM system is
the ENB@ system currently sold by Covidien LP. Among other tasks that may be performed
using the EMN system 10 are planning a pathway to target tissue, navigating a positioning
assembly to the target tissue, navigating a biopsy tool to the target tissue to obtain a tissue
sample from the target tissue using the biopsy tool, and digitally marking the location where
the tissue sample was obtained, and placing one or more markers at or around the target.
[0052]          EMN system 10 may generally include an operating table 40 configured to
support a patient; a bronchoscope 50 configured for insertion through the patient's mouth
and/or nose into the patient's bronchial tree (i.e., airways), the bronchoscope defining a
working channel; monitoring equipment 60 operatively coupled with bronchoscope 50 for
displaying video images received from bronchoscope 50; a tracking system 70, which may
include a tracking module 72, a plurality of reference sensors 74 and an electromagnetic field
generator 76; a workstation 80, which may include software and/or hardware used, e.g., to
facilitate pathway planning, identification of target tissue, navigation to target tissue, and
digitally marking the biopsy location.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               14
[00531         Fig. 1 also depicts two types of catheter guide assemblies 90 and 100. Both
catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 may be usable with EMN system 10 and may share a
number of common components. Each catheter guide assembly 90, 100 may include a handle
91, which may be connected to an extended working channel (EWC) 96. EWC 96 may be
sized for placement into the working channel of bronchoscope 50. In operation, a locatable
guide (LG) 92, including a location sensor, such as an electromagnetic (EM) sensor 94, may
be inserted into EWC 96 and locked into position such that sensor 94 extends a desired
distance beyond the distal tip 93 of EWC 96. LG 92 may be configured to navigate through a
patient's bronchial tree. The location of EM sensor 94, and thus the distal end of the EWC 96,
within an electromagnetic field generated by electromagnetic field generator 76 may be
derived by tracking module 72, and workstation 80. Catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 may
have different operating mechanisms, but each may contain handle 91 that may be
manipulated by rotation and compression to steer distal tip 93 of LG 92 through extended
working channel 96.       Catheter guide assemblies 90 are currently marketed and sold by
Covidien LP under the name SUPERDIMENSION@ Procedure Kits, similarly catheter guide
assemblies 100 are currently sold by Covidien LP under the name EDGETM Procedure Kits,
both kits may include handle 91, extended working channel 96, and locatable guide 92. For a
more detailed description of the catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 reference is made to
commonly-owned U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/836,203 filed on March 15, 2013 by
Ladtkow et al., the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
[0054]         As illustrated in Fig. 1, the patient is shown lying on operating table 40 with
bronchoscope 50 inserted through the patient's mouth and into the patient's airways.
Bronchoscope 50 may include a source of illumination and a video imaging system (not
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                15
explicitly shown) and may be coupled with monitoring equipment 60, e.g., a video display,
for displaying the video images received from the video imaging system of bronchoscope 50.
[0055]           Catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 including LG 92 and EWC 96 may be
configured for insertion through a working channel of bronchoscope 50 into the patient's
airways (although the catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 may alternatively be used without
bronchoscope 50). LG 92 and EWC 96 may be selectively lockable relative to one another
via a locking mechanism 99. A six degrees-of-freedom electromagnetic tracking system 70,
e.g., similar to those disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,188,355 and published PCT Application
Nos. WO 00/10456 and WO 01/67035, the entire contents of each of which is incorporated
herein by reference, or any other suitable positioning measuring system, may be utilized for
performing navigation, although other configurations are also contemplated.             Tracking
system 70 may be configured for use with catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 to track the
position of EM sensor 94 as it moves in conjunction with EWC 96 through the airways of the
patient, as detailed below.
[0056]           As shown in Fig. 1, electromagnetic field generator 76 may be positioned
beneath the patient. Electromagnetic field generator 76 and the plurality of reference sensors
74 may be interconnected with tracking module 72, which may derive the location of each
reference sensor 74 in six degrees of freedom. One or more of reference sensors 74 may be
attached to the chest of the patient. The six degrees of freedom coordinates of reference
sensors 74 may be transmitted to workstation 80, which may include an application that may
utilize sensors 74 to calculate a patient coordinate frame of reference.
[0057]           Also shown in Fig. 1, there is a catheter biopsy tool 102 that may be insertable
into the catheter guide assemblies 90, 100 following navigation to a target and removal of the
LG 92. Biopsy tool 102 may be used to collect one or more tissue samples from the target
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               16
tissue. As detailed below, biopsy tool 102 may be further configured for use in conjunction
with tracking system 70 to facilitate navigation of biopsy tool 102 to the target tissue,
tracking of a location of biopsy tool 102 as it is manipulated relative to the target tissue to
obtain the tissue sample, and/or marking the location where the tissue sample was obtained.
Catheter biopsy tool 102 is only an example for medical tools which may be used with the
disclosed system. Tools such as a tool for placing or releasing a marker may be also used in a
similar manner.
[0058]          Although navigation is detailed above with respect to EM sensor 94 being
included in LG 92, it is also envisioned that EM sensor 94 may be embedded or incorporated
within biopsy tool 102 or any other tool, where biopsy tool 102 may alternatively be utilized
for navigation without need of the LG or the necessary tool exchanges that use of the LG
requires.   A variety of useable biopsy tools are described in U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Nos. 61/906,732 and 61/906,762 both entitled DEVICES, SYSTEMS, AND
METHODS FOR NAVIGATING A BIOPSY TOOL TO A TARGET LOCATION AND
OBTAINING A TISSUE SAMPLE USING THE SAME, filed November 20, 2013 and U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/955,407 having the same title and filed March 14,
2014, the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference and useable
with the EMN system 10 as described herein.
[0059]          During procedure planning, workstation 80 may utilize computed tomographic
(CT) image data for generating and viewing a three-dimensional model ("3D model") of the
patient's airways, enable the identification of target tissue on the 3D model (automatically,
semi-automatically or manually), and allow for the selection of a pathway through the
patient's airways to the target tissue. More specifically, the CT scans may be processed and
assembled into a 3D volume, which may be then utilized to generate the 3D model of the
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                  17
patient's airways. The 3D model may be presented on a display monitor 81 associated with
workstation 80, or in any other suitable fashion. Using workstation 80, various slices of the
3D volume and views of the 3D model may be presented and/or may be manipulated by a
clinician to facilitate identification of a target and selection of a suitable pathway through the
patient's airways to access the target. The 3D model may also show indications such as
marks of the locations where previous biopsies were performed or previously placed markers
including the dates, times, and other identifying information regarding these biopsy locations
or markers. These indications may also be selected as the target to which a pathway may be
planned. Once selected, the pathway is saved for use during the navigation procedure. An
example of a suitable pathway planning system and method is described in U.S. Patent
Application Serial Nos. 13/838,805; 13/838,997; and 13/839,224, all entitled "PATHWAY
PLANNING SYSTEM AND METHOD", filed on March 15, 2014, the entire contents of
each of which are incorporated herein by reference.
[0060]          Turning now to Fig. 2, there is shown a system diagram of workstation 80.
Workstation 80 may include memory 202, processor 204, display 206, network interface 208,
input device 210, and/or output module 212. Memory 202 may store an application 83.
[0061]          Prior to the start of navigation, the clinician loads a navigation plan including
the 3D model of the lungs of the patient and the planned pathways to identified targets into
navigation application 83 from memory 202, via network interface 208, or a USB drive. An
example of the navigation application can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Provisional
Patent Application No. 62/020,240 filed July 2, 2014 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD
FOR NAVIGATING WITHIN THE LUNG, the entire contents of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                18
[00621         During navigation, EM sensor 94, in conjunction with tracking system 70,
enables tracking of EM sensor 94 and/or biopsy tool 102 as EM sensor 94 or biopsy tool 102
is advanced through the patient's airways.
[0063]         Memory 202 may include any non-transitory computer-readable storage media
for storing data and/or software that is executable by processor 204 and which controls the
operation of workstation 80. In an embodiment, memory 202 may include one or more solid
state storage devices such as flash memory chips. Alternatively or in addition to the one or
more solid-state storage devices, memory 202 may include one or more mass storage devices
connected to the processor 204 through a mass storage controller (not shown) and a
communications bus (not shown).         Although the description of computer-readable media
contained herein refers to a solid-state storage, it should be appreciated by those skilled in the
art that computer-readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by
the processor 204. That is, computer readable storage media may include non-transitory,
volatile and non-volatile, removable and non-removable media implemented in any method
or technology for storage of information such as computer-readable instructions, data
structures, program modules or other data. For example, computer-readable storage media
may include RAM, ROM, EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other solid state memory
technology, CD-ROM, DVD, Blu-Ray or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic
tape, magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which
may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by workstation 80.
[0064]         Memory 202 may store an application 83 and/or CT data 214. Application 83
may, when executed by processor 204, cause display 206 to present user interface 216.
Network interface 208 may be configured to connect to a network such as a local area
network (LAN) consisting of a wired network and/or a wireless network, a wide area network
(17304865_1):AWB

                                              19
(WAN), a wireless mobile network, a Bluetooth network, and/or the internet. Input device
210 may be any device by means of which a user may interact with workstation 80, such as,
for example, a mouse, keyboard, foot pedal, touch screen, and/or voice interface. Output
module 212 may include any connectivity port or bus, such as, for example, parallel ports,
serial ports, universal serial busses (USB), or any other similar connectivity port known to
those skilled in the art.
[0065]          Memory 202 may include any non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium including data, software and/or program code embodied therewith that are
executable by processor 204 and which controls the operation of workstation 80. In an
embodiment, memory 202 may include one or more solid-state storage devices such as flash
memory chips. Alternatively or in addition to the one or more solid-state storage devices,
memory 202 may include one or more mass storage devices connected to the processor 204
through a mass storage controller (not shown) and a communications bus (not shown).
Although the description of computer-readable medium contained herein refers to a solid
state storage, it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer-readable
storage medium can be any available medium that can be accessed by the processor 204. That
is, computer readable storage medium may include non-transitory, volatile and non-volatile,
removable and non-removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage
of information such as computer-readable instructions, data structures, program modules or
other data. For example, computer-readable storage medium may include RAM, ROM,
EPROM, EEPROM, flash memory or other solid state memory technology, CD-ROM, DVD,
Blu-Ray or other optical storage, magnetic cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or
other magnetic storage devices, or any other medium which can be used to store the desired
information and which can be accessed by workstation 80.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                20
[00661           EMN system 10 may be operated in accordance with the method of Fig. 3 and
as described herein below.
[0067]           Referring now to Fig. 3, there is shown a flowchart of an exemplary method
for placing a set of one or more markers (or simply 'the set of markers' or 'the markers') in a
patient's thorax in accordance with the present disclosure. For example, the markers may be
fiducial markers for facilitating irradiation of a tumor by the Cyberknife@ system. With
reference to Fig. 2, user interface 216 may further include a feature of marker placement for
instructing the user to provide required input and perform a survey, provide the user with a
suggested set of marker locations for placing the set of markers and/or instruct the user in
deploying the markers in accordance with the obtained rule set and with such a suggestion in
particular.
[00681           In a step 300, image data of the thoracic anatomy of a patient may be received.
In addition, at least one target location in the thoracic anatomy of the patient, such as the
location of a tumor, may be also received. The image data may be, for example, a CT scan
image data previously acquired. The image data may demonstrate the target. Accordingly, the
location of the target may be obtained from the image data. Alternatively, and with reference
to Fig. 2, the target location may be received by a user indicating the target via input device
210 on display 206, while it displays the received image data. Multiple target locations may
be received, while one or more of the markers may be placed for each of the targets in a
separate manner. Alternatively, the multiple targets or a portion of the targets may be joined
to one single target.
[00691           The image data may be automatically registered with the thoracic anatomy of
the patient. Details of this registration are set forth in Provisional Application 62/020,220
filed on July 2, 2014 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Alternative
(17304865_1):AWB

                                              21
registration techniques including manual registration are possible and described in detail in
U.S. Patent Serial No. 7,233,820 entitled "Endoscope structures and techniques for
navigating to a target in branched structure" the entire contents of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
[00701          In a step 310, a rule set, defining one or more rules for placing the set of
markers in the patient's thoracic anatomy may be obtained. The placement of the markers
may be defined with respect to the target (e.g., the nature of the target and/or its location).
The rule set may be received by a user input, e.g., via input device 210. According to some
aspects of the disclosed marker placement, the rule set may be a template to be adapted
according to the user's input. Thus, user interface 216 may present the user with a series of
questions designed to facilitate the generation of a specific rule set based on the template.
According to some other aspects, the rule set is obtained by predefining one or more rule sets.
A predefined rule set may comply, for example, with the requirements of a certain procedure,
anatomy and/or system or tools to be used, such as the requirements of the Cyberknife@
system, as describe herein above. The user may select, via user interface 216 and display 206,
such predefined rule sets. According to some further aspects of the disclosed marker
placement, a rule set may be obtained by combining predefined requirements with user input.
Such user input may relate, for example, to the number of markers to be placed according to
predefined requirements. A rule set may include rules such as a minimal and/or maximal
distance of each marker from the target, a minimal and/or maximal distance between each
two markers, a minimal and/or maximal angle separation between the markers, a minimal
diameter of airways (or a minimal diameter of the lumens in the luminal network, in case
other luminal networks are concerned) and a minimal distance between a marker and a body
organ such as blood vessels.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                22
[00711           In a step 320, sample-locations may be acquired during a survey performed by
a user in the airways surrounding the target via a navigation system. The sample-locations
may be acquired from the surveyed airways and via the navigation system. The navigation
system may be the ENB@ system currently sold by Covidien LP. The sample-locations may
be acquired in a continuous or intermitted manner, e.g., per a predefined time interval.
[0072]           According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, one or more of
the rules of the rule set may be already applied at this stage, i.e., while acquiring sample-
locations. Such rules may be used as filters for acquiring sample-locations. For example, the
rule set may include a rule relating to a maximal diameter of an airway, e.g., less than four
mm. Accordingly, the acquisition of sample-locations may be performed only once the user
reach airways having a diameter less than four mm. Basically, since the bronchial tree tapers
as the user advances (i.e., via a guide inserted within), at some point, one may assume that the
airways diameter is smaller than four mm. The diameter of the airways in the main or center
portion of the patient's bronchial tree may be obtained from the 3D model of the patient's
airways. In accordance with some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, once the user
leaves the modeled portion of the bronchial tree and reaches its more peripheral and/or
non-modeled portions, it may be assumed that the diameter of these non-modeled airways is
smaller than four mm.
[0073]           According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, one or more
displays dedicated to the feature of marker placement may be generated. Referring back to
Fig. 2, user interface 216 may include a button for activating the feature of marker placement.
A dedicated screen may be then displayed on display 206. The screen may include views
including navigation views, similar to the navigation phase according to the ILOGIC@
ELECTROMAGNETIC NAVIGATION BRONCHOSCOPY@ (ENBTM) system currently
(17304865_1):AWB

                                              23
sold by Covidien LP. For example, the default view configuration may include three views: a
local view (i.e., a CT scan presented according to the plane defined by the locatable guide), a
3D map (i.e., the 3D model) and a bronchoscope view (i.e., the video images received from
bronchoscope 50). However, other views may be displayed, for example, by using
fluoroscopy. A target may be selected by the user. The target may be visualized and
displayed on the different views as sphere in a specific color, e.g., a 10 mm green sphere. The
user may be instructed to navigate to the target and initiate a survey in the airways
surrounding the target.
[0074]           In accordance with some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, an on
screen indication of ongoing acquisition of sample-locations may be displayed. Furthermore,
the display may include the path of the survey performed by the user superimposed on image
data of the patient's thoracic anatomy. By 'superimposed on image data', it is meant
superimposed on any view of the display which includes or is derived from the received
image data. The displayed path may include at least a portion of the acquired sample
locations. The path may be displayed in one or more of the various views of the display.
[0075]            Reference is now made to Fig. 4, which shows a screen shot of an exemplary
display 400, which is presented during a survey performed by a user. Display 400 may
include three views: a local view 410, a 3D map dynamic view 420 and a bronchoscope view
430. A Locatable-Guide (LG) 450 maneuvered by the user is shown in local view 410
superimposed on the image data of the patient's bronchial tree. Indications of the acquired
sample-locations 460 are also superimposed on the image data in local view 410, forming a
path of the user's survey. The acquired sample-locations are additionally shown in 3D map
dynamic view 420. One may see that some of the acquired sample locations 460 extend
beyond a 3D model of the patient's bronchial tree 490, as shown in view 420. In accordance
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               24
with some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, indications of sample-locations 460
may be superimposed on any view (e.g., CT scans and/or 3D map views). An indication 470
stating: "Acquiring Data" informs the user that the acquisition of sample-locations is ongoing.
A window 440 may indicate the current distance, denoted 442, between the distal tip of the
locatable guide and a center of the target. A cross 444 indicates the center of the view.
[0076]          The sample-locations may be acquired, displayed and used per target.
According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, sample-locations acquired for
a target may be used for another target. Optionally, the user may be provided with the option
to restart the sample-locations acquisition. In such a case, all the already acquired
sample-locations may be discarded.
[0077]          The sample-locations acquisition may automatically end once enough
sample-locations have been acquired. Enough sample-locations may be acquired once at least
one set of marker locations is identified according to step 330 below. Optionally, the user
may end the sample-locations acquisition, e.g., by clicking a button. With reference to Figure
4, a button 480 titled "Suggest Locations" may be clicked in order to end the
sample-locations acquisition and initiate the identification of marker locations according to
step 330 below.
[0078]          In a step 330, a set of one or more marker locations (or simply 'the set of
marker locations' or 'marker locations') for placing the set of markers, which comply with
said rule set, may be identified from said acquired sample-locations. The identification of a
set of marker locations from the acquired sample-locations, which complies with the rule set,
may be performed according to various techniques, as known in the art.
[0079]          An exemplary technique for acquiring sample-locations and for identifying a
set of marker locations is detailed herein below. The acquisition of the sample-locations may
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                  25
be performed repeatedly until at least one set of marker locations complying with the rule set
is identified. Thus, a plurality of sample-locations may be acquired and then reviewed to
identify a set of marker locations. If such a set is not identified, another plurality of
sample-locations may be acquired and all of the sample-locations acquired until that point
may be reviewed. The above process may be performed iteratively until a set of marker
locations complying with the rule set is identified. The plurality of the sample-locations
acquired each time may be, for example, a predefined fixed number, or a variable number of
sample-locations, which may be acquired per a predefined time interval (e.g., three seconds).
At this stage, no further sample-locations may be acquired. The identified set of marker
locations may be then suggested to the user as will be described in more details herein below.
[0080]           Optionally, once a set of marker locations is identified, all of the possible sets
of marker locations complying with the rule set may be identified in all of the sample
locations acquired until that point. One set of marker locations may be selected from all of
the identified sets of marker locations. The selection may be based on one or more predefined
criterions. A predefined criterion may be, for example, a set of marker locations having a
center (i.e., the center of the locations layout) which is the closest to the target and/or marker
locations having the widest angle separation etc.
[00811           If the identification of at least one set of marker locations fails, for example,
following an identification process which was initiated too early by the user (e.g., by clicking
button 480), a message may be displayed to indicate that more sample-locations need to be
acquired. Optionally, a user may be allowed to continue the survey, although enough
sample-locations were acquired, in order to acquire additional sample-locations.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                26
[00821           According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, the marker
locations may be marker regions. A marker region may include a plurality of adjacent
locations which may comply with said rule set. Accordingly, such a marker location may be,
for example, a sphere. Such marker regions may be defined, for example, such that all or
most of the possible sets of locations in these regions (i.e., by selecting one location from
each region) comply with the rule set (e.g., 95% to 100% of the locations). A marker region
may allow greater flexibility for the user in placing the marker and thus simplify the task of
marker placement, while he larger the region is, the greater the flexibility is. However, on the
other hand, regions which are too large may make the task of identifying a set of marker
locations (i.e., marker regions) more difficult and time consuming. The marker region shape
and/or size may be defined based on the specific rule set.
[00831           Referring back to Fig. 2, once a set of marker locations is identified or selected,
it may be automatically displayed to the user on display 206. A display which includes
indications of the set of marker locations superimposed on the image data of the thoracic
anatomy may be generated. The indications of the marker locations may be in a form of a
sphere. For example, it was found that marker regions in the shape of spheres having a radius
of 7 mm1 mm may comply with the rule set defined by Cyberknife@ system requirements,
as disclosed herein above, while allowing fine flexibility with a reasonable region size.
Marker regions in the shape of a sphere having a radius of up to 7 mm may also comply with
the specific rule set of Cyberknife@ system.
[0084]           Reference is now made to Fig. 5, which shows a screen shot of an exemplary
display 500 that presents the user with an exemplary suggested set of marker locations.
Display 500 includes views 410, 420 and 430. Display 500 further includes a pop-up window
510. Pop-up window 510 may be initiated once a set of marker locations is identified or
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               27
selected. Pop-up window 510 includes target 520, presented as a sphere in one color, and
marker locations 530A, 530B and 530C, presented as spheres in a different color. The set of
marker locations 530A, 530B and 530C complies with a rule set which was determined in
accordance with the Cyberknife@ system requirements. Marker locations 530A-530C are
placed around target 520 in a form of a triangle. Distances and angles between marker
locations 530A-530C may be indicated as shown in pop-up window 510 (not denoted).
[0085]          According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, previous
locations of previously deployed markers may form a part of the currently suggested set of
marker locations. Thus, deployment of one or more markers may be spared, mainly for the
benefit of the patient, but also for the benefit of the user. Therefore, in a further step, data
including a location of previous one or more markers, which were previously placed in the
patient's thorax, may be obtained. Such data may be obtained, e.g., via a user input or
extracted from the received image data.
[0086]          If a previous marker location complies with the rule set, the marker may be
determined as a marker of the set of markers to be deployed, which is already deployed. The
identifying of the remainder of the marker locations may be then performed with respect to
the previous marker location. In case the location of a previously deployed marker does not
comply with the rule set, it may not be considered. In addition, an area surrounding this
marker, having a predefined diameter, may be discarded and therefore may not be considered
as a location for a marker in order to prevent misguidance or confusion.
[0087]          According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, the user may be
provided with the option to reject a suggested set of marker locations and/or with the option
to restart a survey at any point. In such a case, the acquired sample-locations including the
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               28
suggested marker-locations may be discarded. However, markers locations which are already
deployed may not be discarded.
[00881         Referring back to Fig. 3 and according to an optional step 340, the user may
be instructed in placing the markers in the marker locations via the display. As described
herein above, the display may include various views of the patient's bronchial tree having
indications of the target, the marker locations, the user's LG and/or the path of the user's
survey superimposed thereon. The user may navigate through the bronchial tree and follow
the survey path, via the LG, to the different marker locations.
[00891         Once the user reaches a marker location, an indication may be displayed. For
example, if the marker locations are marker regions, such as spheres, the color of such a
sphere may change once the tip of the LG enters the sphere. Reference is now made to Fig. 6,
which shows a screen shot of an exemplary display 600, presenting an LG in a marker
location. Display 600 displays LG 450 in marker location 530A. Since marker location 530A
is a sphere region including multiple locations, most of LG 450 is located within marker
location 530A and therefore only the end of LG 450 is shown.
[0090]         The user may then place or deploy a marker of the set of markers in the
marker location. Indication of such deployment may be presented as well, e.g., by changing
the color of the sphere to a different third color. When deploying a marker, the different
views may be suspended. An indication for such a suspension may be presented, such as
banner 610 of Fig. 6. Once the marker is deployed, the user may press a 'Done' button 620 to
un-suspend the views. Once all of the markers are deployed in the suggested marker locations,
the user may be presented with indication that the task is complete.
[0091]         According to some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, the markers
may be deployed in locations which are external to the luminal network, e.g., the airways.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                29
Accordingly, the user may be instructed to place one or more markers in tissue external to the
luminal network, in the vicinity of the one or more marker locations. In such cases, the user
may navigate to a marker location and then use an invasive tool, to reach the location for
placing the marker, e.g., through an airway wall.
 [0092]         In some cases, a user may fail to place a marker in a marker location. Due to
the branched and tapering structure of the bronchial tree, a change in the shape of the
bronchial tree soft tissue (e.g., due to the user's actions) and/or breathing movements, a user
may have difficulties in maneuvering and/or finding his way back to a location. The user may
then request or indicate that he wishes to place the marker in a location different than any of
the marker locations in the suggested set of marker locations. In such cases and in accordance
with some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, the current location of the user may be
acquired. It should be noted that such a location may be a sample location which was already
acquired during the survey performed by the user or a new location, which was not acquired
during the survey. By 'a current location of the user' it is meant a current location of the LG
maneuvered by the user. If the current location complies with the rule set, then the current
location may be determined as the marker location. Marker locations for placing the
non-placed markers of the set of markers (i.e., the markers which were not placed yet) may
be then identified from the acquired marker locations. The identification may be performed
with respect to the current location and in accordance with the rule set. The already suggested
marker locations may be reviewed first to check if they still comply with the rule set, when
joined with the current location. Sample-locations which are adjacent to the already
suggested marker locations may receive priority when identifying new locations for placing
the remainder of the markers (i.e., the non-placed markers). Such course of action may make
the procedure of identifying a new set of marker locations (or of updating the set of marker
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                30
locations) more convenient for the user. If the current location does not comply with the rule
set, a suitable message may be presented to the user. Other locations from the acquired
sample-locations may be then reviewed in order to identify marker locations. If a new set of
marker locations, which complies with the rule set, may not be identified, a new survey may
be initiated.
[00931          In accordance with some aspects of the disclosed marker placement, a marker
which is additional to the set of markers may be placed in the target. To allow such placement,
the rule set may include dedicated rules such as a rule defining a minimal distance between a
marker location and the target (e.g., a distance of 25 mm).
[0094]          A computer program product for marker placement is further disclosed. The
computer program product may include a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium
having program code embodied therewith. The program code may be executable by at least
one hardware processor, such as processor 204 of system 10 shown in Fig. 2. The program
code may include application 81. The program code may include instructions for applying the
method of Fig. 3 and as described herein above.
[0095]          The method of Fig. 3, as described herein above, may be applied to other
luminal networks with the required modifications, which will be obvious to one skilled in the
art, and by using known navigation systems. The disclosed marker placement may be applied
by using various navigation systems, including remote navigation such as remote magnetic
navigation and with respect to various luminal networks. It should be noted that navigating a
guide by a user according to the disclosed marker placement may be performed directly, i.e.,
by manually maneuvering the guide or indirectly or remotely, e.g., by using magnetic fields
or robotic systems.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                31
[00961          Further aspects which may relate to the disclosed marker placement and/or to
ENB system 10 are described in co-pending and commonly-owned U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 62/020,220 entitled "Real-Time Automatic Registration Feedback,"
filed on July 2, 2014, by Brown et al.; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
62/020,177 entitled "Methods for Marking Biopsy Location," filed on July 2, 2014, by
Brown.; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/020,240 entitled "System and
Method for Navigating Within the Lung," filed on July 2, 2014, by Brown et al.; U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/020,238 entitled "Intelligent Display," filed on
July 2, 2014, by Kehat et al.; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/020,242
entitled "Unified Coordinate System for Multiple CT Scans of Patient Lungs," filed on July 2,
2014, by Greenburg.; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/020,245 entitled
"Alignment CT," filed on July 2, 2014, by Klein et al.; U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 62/020,250 entitled "Algorithm for Fluoroscopic Pose Estimation," filed on July 2,
2014, by Merlet.; U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/020,261 entitled "System
and Method for Segmentation of Lung," filed on July 2, 2014, by Markov et al.; U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/020,253 entitled "Trachea Marking," filed on
July 2, 2014, by Lachmanovich et al.; and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
62/020,262 entitled "Dynamic 3D Lung Map View for Tool Navigation Inside the Lung,"
filed on July 2, 2014, by Weingarten et al., the entire contents of all of which are hereby
incorporated by reference.
[00971          Detailed embodiments of devices, systems incorporating such devices, and
methods using the same have been described herein. However, these detailed embodiments
are merely examples of the disclosure, which may be embodied in various forms. Therefore,
specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting,
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               32
but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for allowing one skilled in
the art to variously employ the present disclosure in virtually any appropriately detailed
structure. The present disclosure is relevant to various types of imaging systems (e.g.,
fluoroscopic/radiographic imaging systems, etc.) and to various types of sensors. While the
preceding embodiments were described in terms of bronchoscopy of a patient's airways,
those skilled in the art will realize that the same or similar devices, systems, computer
program products and methods may be used in or with respect to other lumen networks, such
as, for example, the vascular, lymphatic, and/or gastrointestinal networks as well. Features of
certain embodiments may be combined with features of other embodiments; thus certain
embodiments may be combinations of features of other or multiple embodiments.
[00981           The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more than one
(e.g., to at least one) of the grammatical object of the article, depending on the context. By
way of example, depending on the context, "an element" can mean one element or more than
one element. The term "including" is used herein to mean, and is used interchangeably with,
the phrase "including but not limited to". The terms "or" and "and" are used herein to mean,
and are used interchangeably with, the term "and/or," unless context clearly indicates
otherwise. The term "such as" is used herein to mean, and is used interchangeably, with the
phrase "such as but not limited to".
(17304865_1):AWB

                                               33
                                            CLAIMS
   1.     A method for placing a set of one or more markers in a luminal network in a
      patient's body, the method comprising using at least one hardware processor for:
        receiving image data of anatomy of a luminal network of a patient and a location of at
least one target in the luminal network anatomy;
        obtaining a rule set defining one or more rules for placing the set of one or more
markers in the luminal network anatomy and with respect to the at least one target;
        during a survey performed by a user via a navigation system in a portion of the
luminal network surrounding the at least one target, acquiring, via the navigation system,
sample-locations in the surveyed portion of the luminal network; and
        identifying a set of one or more marker locations for placing the set of one or more
markers from the acquired sample-locations, which complies with the rule set.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more marker locations are one or more
marker regions, and wherein each of the one or more marker regions comprises a plurality of
locations which comply with the rule set.
3.      The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more marker regions are spheres having a
radius size selected from the group consisting of: up to 7 mm and 7 mm + 1 mm.
4.      The method of claim 1, further comprising using the at least one hardware processor
for generating a display comprising the path of the survey superimposed on the image data of
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                34
the luminal network anatomy, and wherein the path is comprised of the acquired sample
locations.
5.      The method of claim 1, further comprising using the at least one hardware processor
for:
        generating a display comprising indications of the one or more marker locations
superimposed on the image data of the luminal network anatomy; and
        instructing the user in placing the one or more markers in the one or more marker
locations via the display.
6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the user is instructed to place at least one of the one
or more markers in tissue external to the luminal network, in the vicinity of the one or more
marker locations.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the user fails to place a marker of the one or more
markers in a marker location of the set of one or more marker locations, the method further
comprising using the at least one hardware processor for:
        acquiring a current location of the user in the luminal network anatomy;
        if the current location complies with the rule set, determining the current location as
the marker location for the marker; and
        identifying marker locations from the acquired marker locations for placing
non-placed markers of the set of one or more markers,
        wherein the identifying of the marker locations is performed with respect to the
current location and in accordance with the rule set.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                                 35
8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the rule set comprises rules selected from the group
consisting of: distance of each of the one or more markers from the target, distance between
each two of the one or more markers, an angle separation between two of the one or more
markers and a diameter of a lumen of the luminal network.
9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising using the at least one hardware processor
for:
        obtaining data comprising a location of a previous marker which was previously
placed in the patient's luminal network; and
        if the previous marker location complies with the rule set, determining the previous
marker as a marker of the set of one or more markers which is placed in a marker location,
        wherein identifying of the remainder of the one or more marker locations is
performed with respect to the previous marker location and the rule set.
10.     The method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring of the sample-locations and the
identifying of the set of one or more marker locations comprise repeatedly acquiring a
plurality of sample-locations until at least one set of one or more marker locations complying
with the rule set is identified in the acquired sample-locations.
(17304865_1):AWB

                                             36
11.     The method of claim 1, wherein the luminal network is the airways in the patient's
thorax.
                                       Covidien LP
                           Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                               SPRUSON & FERGUSON
(17304865_1):AWB

    <U+2701>       <U+2702>           <U+2704>
                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2736>       <U+2735>       <U+2735>
                                                              1/6
                    <U+274B>       <U+2710>   <U+2763>   <U+2733>

<U+2702>       <U+2704>
                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                            <U+273D>   <U+2738>
                                                          2/6
    <U+274B>       <U+2710>   <U+2763>   <U+2733>   <U+2737>

<removed-date>
                                              3/6
                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                              <U+2735>
                                                      <U+2735>
                      <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2735>
                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                              <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2737>
                      <U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2738>
                      <U+2738>
                                                                          <U+2738>
<removed-apn>
                                                                      <U+2732>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2768>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                                      P
                                              <U+2747>
                                  <U+2702>                                                   <U+2751>
                                                                      <U+25BC>
                          <U+2768>
                                                  <U+2749>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+25C6>
                  <U+2702>       <U+25BC>
                                                  <U+2701>
                                  
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                          <U+2756>
                  <U+274B>
                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                          <U+25BC>
                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2704>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                  <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2756>
                                  <U+2701>
                  <U+2768>                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+274D>
                          <U+25C6>
                                                              <U+25CF>
                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                      
                              <U+2751>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                  <U+25BC>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+276F>
                                                              <U+2702>
                  <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2701>
                          <U+2748>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+25D7>                   
                          
                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+2704>
                  <U+2704>
                                                  P
                                                                      <U+2748>
                                  <U+25BC>
                          <U+2748>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2768>
                          <U+2702>
                  <U+25C6>
                                  <U+274B>
                                                              <U+274D>
                                                  <U+2701>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                  <U+2756>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2771>
                          <U+2756>
                                                                                      <U+2751>
                                                                      <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+274D>
                  <U+2748>
                                  <U+2704>
                  
                                                              <U+25CF>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2701>
                                              <U+276F>
                  <U+2748>
                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                          <U+2768>
                          <U+2701>
                                                              
                              <U+260E>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                              <U+260E>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                      
                          <U+274D>                                   <U+2749>                           <U+25BC>
                                          <U+25BC>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                  
                                                  <U+2702>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                              <U+25C6>
                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                  <U+2756>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                  <U+25CF>
                                                          <U+276F>                       <U+2772>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                          <U+25C6>                       <U+25CF>
                                                                                          <U+274D>
                  <U+274D>
                          
                                                                      <U+2756>
                                  <U+25C6>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2756>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                     
                  <U+2704>
                                                  
                          <U+25C6>
                                          <U+25C6>                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2704>
              <U+275A>
                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                  
                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                                                                                                      
                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2702>
                          <U+2756>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2733>
                                  <U+2702>
              |
                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                          
                                                                                                      <U+2704>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                                          <U+275E>
    <U+2704>
                  <U+274D>
                                                                                          
                                  <U+25B2>
                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                      <U+2748>
    <U+2702>
                                          <U+2748>                                       P
                          <U+2704>
              <U+2746>
                                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                          <U+2665>
                                                                                                              <U+2763>
                                                  <U+2749>
                  <U+2704>
                                          
                                  P
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+2710>
                                                                                          <U+2748>
<U+2706>
              <U+275A>
                          <U+2702>                                           <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+25BC>
                                                                                                      <U+2748>
                                                                                                          <U+274A>
                                          <U+2748>
                  <U+274B>
                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+25B2>
              <U+2759>
                          <U+2748>
                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                                      <U+2756>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+25B2>
                  <U+2756>
                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                              <U+2768>
                          <U+2756>
                                                                                                      <U+25B2>
                                  <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                          P
                                                  <U+2756>
                          <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+2702>
                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                  
                                          <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+274D>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+2704>
                                                                  <U+2751>
                          <U+2704>
                                                                                          
                                                              <U+2772>
                                  <U+2704>
                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+2748>
                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                          <U+2701>
                                                                                  
                                  <U+2701>
                                          <U+2704>
                                                              
                  <U+2749>
                                                  <U+2748>                   <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+274D>
                          <U+25CF>
                              <U+260E>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2756>
                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+25BC>
                                                                                  <U+2772>
                                  <U+2701>                                                   <U+260E>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                              <U+2701>
                          <U+2702>
                  <U+25CF>
                                  <U+25B2>
                                                  <U+2732>
                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                                                              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+274D>
                          <U+2704>
                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2701>
                              <U+276F>
                                                                      <U+2756>
                                                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                              <U+2704>
                                                  <U+25B2>
                          <U+2702>
                  <U+25BC>
                  
                                                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                          <U+274D>
                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                  P
                                                              <U+25C6>
                                                                                  
                                                              
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2749>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                  <U+25BC>
                  <U+25CF>
                                                                  <U+260E>
                          <U+25C6>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+25CF>
                                                                                          <U+25CF>
                  <U+25C6>
                         <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                  <U+2748>
                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                  
                  <U+2771>
                                                                                          
                          <U+2704>
                                                          <U+260E>
                  
                                                                                  <U+2756>
                                                                      <U+25CF>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                  <U+25CF>
                                  <U+25C6>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+25C6>       
                                                          <U+276F>
                                                                                  <U+25B2>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+2748>
                                                  <U+25C6>
                                                                      
                          <U+2701>       <U+2702>
                  <U+2748>                               
                                                              <U+2702>
                          
                                                                                      <U+276F>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                                      <U+2768>
                  <U+2701>
                          <U+2704>
                                                  
                                                                      <U+274B>
                              <U+2747>
                                                                      
                          <U+2702>
                                              <U+276F>
                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                  <U+2756>
                                                                      <U+2704>
                          P
                                                                                      <U+260E>
                                                  <U+25D7>
                                                                      <U+25C6>
                                                                                          <U+25C6>
                                                  <U+2748>
                                                                                          
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2749>
                                                                      

<removed-date>
                                                          4/6
                                                                <U+2735>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                                <U+273B>
                                                  <U+273B>
                                                                <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2739>
              <U+2735>
                          <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
                                                                                <U+2735>
                              <U+273C>
              <U+2739>
                                                                                <U+273D>
                          <U+2739>
                                                                                <U+2739>
<removed-apn>
                                                                    <U+2735>
                                                                        <U+273A>
                                                                    <U+2739>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+2736>
                  <U+2739>
                                                                                    <U+2739>
                                                                                    <U+2733>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+2763>
                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                    <U+2710>
                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                    <U+274B>
                                              <U+2739>
 <U+2704>
                                              <U+2739>
 <U+2702>
                                              <U+2739>
                                      <U+2735>
                                      <U+2739>
                                      <U+2739>
                                  <U+2735>
                                  <U+273B>
                                  <U+2739>
                                                                            <U+2735>
                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                            <U+2739>
                      <U+2735>
                      <U+2737>
                      <U+2739>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                      <U+273E>
                                                      <U+2739>

<removed-date>
                                                              5/6
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
                  <U+273A>
<removed-apn>                <U+2735>
                          <U+2736>
                              <U+273A>
                      <U+2735>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2747>                 <U+2748>
                                              <U+2735>                     <U+2735>
                                                                                    <U+273A>
                                              <U+2738>                     <U+2738>
                                                                                <U+2733>
                                                  <U+273A>                     <U+273A>
                                                                                <U+2763>
                                                                                <U+2710>
 <U+2704>
 <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2735>
                                                                                <U+274B>
                                                      <U+2737>
                                                          <U+273A>
                                      <U+2746>
                                      <U+2735>
                                      <U+2738>
                                          <U+273A>
                                                                            <U+2735>
                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                            <U+2739>
                                  <U+2735>
                                  <U+2737>
                                  <U+2739>

<removed-date>
                                                      6/6
                                                                <U+2735>
                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                <U+273B>
                                              <U+2735>
                                              <U+273B>
                                              <U+2739>
              <U+2735>
              <U+2735>
              <U+273B>
<removed-apn>
                                                                        <U+2735>
                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                        <U+2739>
                      <U+2735>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2739>
                          <U+2746>
                          <U+2735>
                          <U+2738>
                              <U+273A>
                                                                                    <U+273B>
                                                                                <U+2733>
                                                                                <U+2763>
                                                                                <U+2710>
<U+2704>
                                          <U+2735>
<U+2702>
                                                                                <U+274B>
                                          <U+2739>
<U+2704>
                                          <U+2739>
                                  <U+2746>
                                  <U+2735>
                                  <U+2738>
                                      <U+273A>
                  <U+2735>
                  <U+2737>
                  <U+2739>
                                  <U+2735>
                                  <U+273B>
                                  <U+2739>
                                                  <U+2735>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                  <U+2739>
                                                            <U+2735>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                    <U+2735>
                                                            <U+2739>
                                                                    <U+2736>
                                                                    <U+273B>

