ABSTRACT:
The present disclosure pertains to a pressure support system configured to provide
pressure support to the airway of a subject. The system is configured to detect respiratory
events and control the pressure support to generate a pulse of breathable gas for delivery
to the airway of the subject. The respiratory events may include airway obstruction (e.g.,
obstructive sleep apnea), and/or other respiratory events. The pulse may comprise a
temporary bolus of breathable gas. The pulse may be delivered by the system as needed
to open the airway of the subject. The pulse of breathable gas is configured to open the
airway of subject 12 before a subsequent inhalation. In some embodiments, the system
comprises one or more of a pressure generator, a subject interface, one or more sensors, a
processor, a user interface, electronic storage, and/or other components.
                                             - 24 -

WO 2014/072915             PCT/1B2013/059947
                  1/4
               0c
                           EE
    czC~  1iU
                      LrLL

       WO 2014/072915                                                            PCT/IB2013/059947
     SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING PRESSURE PULSES TO THE AIRWAY OF A SUBJECT
[01]                   The present disclosure pertains to a pressure support system configured to
       provide pressure support to the airway of a subject.
[02]                   Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a condition in which there is a decrease
       and/or cessation of airflow through an upper airway of a subject during sleep. Obstructive
       sleep apnea is the result of the upper airway collapsing and obstructing the airflow though
       the upper airway.    The most common method of treatment for this condition is
       continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Other methods to treat sleep apnea using a
       positive airway pressure (PAP) device include Auto CPAP (APAP), bi-level positive
       airway pressure support (BiPAP), and servo ventilation. OSA may also be treated with
       drugs, surgeries, and/or other medical devices.
[031                   Accordingly, one or more aspects of the present disclosure relate to a
       pressure generation system for a pressure support system. The pressure generation system
       comprises a pressure generator, one or more sensors, and one or more processors. The
       pressure generator is configured to generate a pressurized flow of breathable gas for
       delivery to the airway of a subject. The one or more sensors are configured to generate
       output signals conveying information related to one or more parameters of the pressurized
       flow of breathable gas. The one or more processors are configured to execute computer
       program modules. The computer program modules comprise a respiratory event detection
       module, a pulse parameter module, and a control module. The respiratory event detection
       module is configured to detect airway obstruction. Airway obstruction is detected based
       on the output signals of the sensors. The pulse parameter module is configured to obtain
       one or more pulse parameters of a pulse of breathable gas. The pulse comprises a
       temporary bolus of breathable gas. The pulse is configured to open the airway of the
       subject. The control module is configured to control the pressure generator to generate,
       responsive to detection of airway obstruction, the pulse of breathable gas for delivery to
       the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained pulse parameters.
                                                    -1-

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
[041                 Yet another aspect of the present disclosure relates to a method of
     generating pressure with a pressure generation system for a pressure support system. The
     pressure generation system comprises a pressure generator, one or more sensors, and one
     or more processors. The one or more processors are configured to execute computer
     program modules. The computer program modules comprise a respiratory event detection
     module, a pulse parameter module, and a control module. The method comprises
     generating a pressurized flow of breathable gas for delivery to the airway of a subject with
     the pressure generator; generating output signals conveying information related to one or
     more parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas with the one or more sensors;
     detecting airway obstruction with the airway obstruction module, wherein airway
     obstruction is detected based on the output signals generated by the sensors; obtaining one
     or more pulse parameters of a pulse of breathable gas with the pulse parameter module,
     the pulse comprising a temporary bolus of breathable gas, the pulse configured to open the
     airway of the subject; and controlling the pressure generator with the control module to
     generate, responsive to detection of airway obstruction, the pulse of breathable gas for
     delivery to the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained pulse parameters.
[05]                 Still another aspect of present disclosure relates to a pressure generation
     system for a pressure support system. The pressure generation system comprises means
     for generating a pressurized flow of breathable gas for delivery to the airway of a subject;
     means for generating output signals conveying information related to one or more
     parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas; and means for executing computer
     program modules. The computer program modules comprise means for detecting airway
     obstruction, wherein airway obstruction is detected based on the output signals; means for
     obtaining one or more pulse parameters of a pulse of breathable gas, the pulse comprising
     a temporary bolus of breathable gas, the pulse configured to open the airway of the
     subject; and means for controlling the means for generating a pressurized flow to generate,
     responsive to detection of airway obstruction, the pulse of breathable gas for delivery to
     the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained pulse parameters.
                                                  -2-

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
[061                 These and other objects, features, and characteristics of the present
     disclosure, as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of
     structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture, will become more
     apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with
     reference to the accompanying drawings, all of which form a part of this specification,
     wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is
     to be expressly understood, however, that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration
     and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the disclosure.
[07]                 FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of a pressure support system configured
     to provide pressure support to the airway of a subject.
[081                 FIG. 2 shows a flow rate profile during a full breath.
[09]                 FIG. 3 illustrates an occurrence of a respiratory event between two normal
     breaths.
[10]                 FIG. 4 illustrates a pressure pulse with an amplitude and a period.
[11]                 FIG. 5 illustrates a regular flow rate profile for four consecutive breaths.
[12]                 FIG. 6 illustrates a method of providing pressure support to the airway of a
     subject.
[131                 As used herein, the singular form of "a", "an", and "the" include plural
     references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. As used herein, the statement that
     two or more parts or components are "coupled" shall mean that the parts are joined or
     operate together either directly or indirectly, i.e., through one or more intermediate parts
     or components, so long as a link occurs. As used herein, "directly coupled" means that
     two elements are directly in contact with each other. As used herein, "fixedly coupled" or
     "fixed" means that two components are coupled so as to move as one while maintaining a
     constant orientation relative to each other.
                                                   - 3-

     WO 2014/072915                                                               PCT/IB2013/059947
[141                  As used herein, the word "unitary" means a component is created as a
     single piece or unit. That is, a component that includes pieces that are created separately
     and then coupled together as a unit is not a "unitary" component or body. As employed
     herein, the statement that two or more parts or components "engage" one another shall
     mean that the parts exert a force against one another either directly or through one or
     more intermediate parts or components. As employed herein, the term "number" shall
     mean one or an integer greater than one (i.e., a plurality).
[15]                  Directional phrases used herein, such as, for example and without
     limitation, top, bottom, left, right, upper, lower, front, back, and derivatives thereof, relate
     to the orientation of the elements shown in the drawings and are not limiting upon the
     claims unless expressly recited therein.
[161                  FIG. 1 is a schematic illustration of a pressure support system 10
     configured to provide pressure support to the airway of a subject 12. System 10 is
     configured to detect respiratory events and control the pressure support to generate a
     pulse of breathable gas for delivery to the airway of subject 12.    The respiratory events
     may include airway obstruction (e.g., obstructive sleep apnea), and/or other respiratory
     events. The pulse may comprise a temporary bolus of breathable gas. The pulse may be
     delivered by system 10 as needed to open the airway of subject 12. The pulse of
     breathable gas is configured to open the airway of subject 12 before a subsequent
     inhalation.
[17]                  Current positive airway pressure (e.g., CPAP, APAP, BiPAP) solutions for
     respiratory events such as obstructive sleep apnea may provide more pressure support
     than necessary to maintain an open airway. An airway may collapse at specific moments
     during sleep. Many times, it may only be necessary provide increased pressure to open the
     airway at the beginning of inhalation. Once air is flowing through the airway, airway
     collapse is less likely. There may be little or no need to maintain the same level of
     pressure after the beginning of inhalation. At the end of exhalation, pressure support
     provided by a typical PAP system may go unused by because there may be no inflow
     and/or outflow of air.
                                                    -4-

     WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
[181                 For example, FIG. 2 shows a flow rate profile 202 during a full breath.
     The flow rate increases 208 during inhalation 206, and then reverses direction 210 during
     exhalation 204. The relatively flat portion 200 of flow rate profile 202 at the end of
     exhalation 204 shows the lack of airflow at the end of exhalation 204.
[19]                 Returning to FIG. 1, in some embodiments, system 10 comprises one or
     more of a pressure generator 14, a subject interface 16, one or more sensors 18, a
     processor 20, a user interface 22, electronic storage 24, and/or other components.
[20]                 Pressure generator 14 is configured to generate a pressurized flow of
     breathable gas for delivery to the airway of subject 12. Pressure generator 14 may control
     one or more parameters of the flow of gas (e.g., flow rate, pressure, volume, temperature,
     duration, a timing, gas composition, etc.) for therapeutic purposes, and/or for other
     purposes. By way of a non-limiting example, pressure generator 14 may be configured to
     generate the pulse of breathable gas for delivery to the airway of subject 12. The pulse
     may have associated amplitude, period, timing, and/or other parameters.
[21]                 Pressure generator 14 receives a flow of gas from a gas source, such as the
     ambient atmosphere, and elevates and/or reduces the pressure of that gas for delivery to
     the airway of a patient. Pressure generator 14 is any device, such as, for example, a pump,
     blower, piston, or bellows, that is capable of elevating and/or reducing the pressure of the
     received gas for delivery to a patient. Pressure generator 14 may comprise one or more
     valves for controlling the pressure and/or flow of gas, for example. The present disclosure
     also contemplates controlling the operating speed of the blower, either alone or in
     combination with such valves, to control the pressure and/or flow of gas provided to the
     patient.
[22]                 Subject interface 16 is configured to deliver the pressurized flow of
     breathable gas to the airway of subject 12. As such, subject interface 16 comprises
     conduit 30, interface appliance 32, and/or other components. Conduit 30 is configured to
     convey the pressurized flow of gas to interface appliance 32. Conduit 30 may be a flexible
     length of hose, or other conduit, that places interface appliance 32 in fluid communication
     with pressure generator 14. Interface appliance 32 is configured to deliver the flow of gas
                                                  -5-

     WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
     to the airway of subject 12. In some embodiments, interface appliance 32 is non-invasive.
     As such, interface appliance 32 non-invasively engages subject 12. Non-invasive
     engagement comprises removably engaging an area (or areas) surrounding one or more
     external orifices of the airway of subject 12 (e.g., nostrils and/or mouth) to communicate
     gas between the airway of subject 12 and interface appliance 32. Some examples of non
     invasive interface appliance 32 may comprise, for example, a nasal cannula, a nasal mask,
     a nasal/oral mask, a full face mask, a total face mask, or other interface appliances that
     communicate a flow of gas with an airway of a subject. The present disclosure is not
     limited to these examples, and contemplates delivery of the flow of gas to the subject
     using any interface appliance, including an invasive interface appliance such as an
     endotracheal tube and/or other appliances.
[23]                  Sensors 18 are configured to generate output signals conveying
     information related to one or more gas parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable
     gas. Sensors 18 are configured to generate output signals conveying information related
     to one or more breathing parameters related to the respiration of subject 12. The one or
     more gas parameters and/or the one or more breathing parameters may comprise one or
     more of a flow rate, a volume, a pressure, a composition (e.g., concentration(s) of one or
     more constituents), temperature, humidity, acceleration, velocity, acoustics, changes in a
     parameter indicative of respiratory effort by subject 12, a timing, a duration, a frequency,
     and/or other parameters. Sensors 18 may comprise one or more sensors that measure
     such parameters directly (e.g., through fluid communication with the flow of gas in subject
     interface 16). Sensors 18 may comprise one or more sensors that generate output signals
     related to one or more parameters of the flow of gas indirectly. For example, one or more
     of sensors 18 may generate an output based on an operating parameter of pressure
     generator 14 (e.g., a valve driver or motor current, voltage, rotational velocity, and/or
     other operating parameters). Although sensors 18 are illustrated at a single location
     within (or in communication with) conduit 30 between interface appliance 32 and pressure
     generator 14, this is not intended to be limiting. Sensors 18 may include sensors disposed
     in a plurality of locations, such as for example, within pressure generator 14, within (or in
                                                   -6-

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
     communication with) interface appliance 32, in communication with subject 12, and/or in
     other locations.
[24]                  Processor 20 is configured to provide information processing capabilities in
     system 10. As such, processor 20 may comprise one or more of a digital processor, an
     analog processor, and a digital circuit designed to process information, an analog circuit
     designed to process information, a state machine, and/or other mechanisms for
     electronically processing information. Although processor 20 is shown in FIG. 1 as a
     single entity, this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations, processor 20
     may comprise a plurality of processing units. These processing units may be physically
     located within the same device (e.g., pressure generator 14), or processor 20 may
     represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination.
[25]                  As shown in FIG. 1, processor 20 is configured to execute one or more
     computer program modules. The one or more computer program modules may comprise
     one or more of a gas parameter module 50, a breathing parameter module 52, a
     respiratory event detection module 54, a pulse parameter module 56, a control module 58,
     and/or other modules. Processor 20 may be configured to execute modules 50, 52, 54,
     56, and/or 58 by software; hardware; firmware; some combination of software, hardware,
     and/or firmware; and/or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on
     processor 20.
[26]                  It should be appreciated that although modules 50, 52, 54, 56, and 58 are
     illustrated in FIG. 1 as being co-located within a single processing unit, in implementations
     in which processor 20 comprises multiple processing units, one or more of modules 50,
     52, 54, 56, and/or 58 may be located remotely from the other modules. The description of
     the functionality provided by the different modules 50, 52, 54, 56, and/or 58 described
     below is for illustrative purposes, and is not intended to be limiting, as any of modules 50,
     52, 54, 56, and/or 58 may provide more or less functionality than is described. For
     example, one or more of modules 50, 52, 54, 56, and/or 58 may be eliminated, and some
     or all of its functionality may be provided by other modules 50, 52, 54, 56, and/or 58. As
     another example, processor 20 may be configured to execute one or more additional
                                                     -7-

     WO 2014/072915                                                                PCT/IB2013/059947
     modules that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of
     modules 50, 52, 54, 56, and/or 58.
[271                  Gas parameter module 50 is configured to determine one or more gas
     parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas. Gas parameter module 50 is
     configured to determine the one or more gas parameters based on the output signals of
     sensors 18. The one or more gas parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas
     may comprise, for example, one or more of a flow rate, a volume, a pressure, humidity,
     temperature, acceleration, velocity, and/or other gas parameters. The information
     determined by gas parameter module 50 may be used for controlling pressure generator
     14, determining breathing parameters of subject 12, and/or other uses.
[28]                  Breathing parameter module 52 is configured to determine one or more
     breathing parameters of subject 12. The one or more breathing parameters are determined
     based on the output signals of sensors 18, information determined by gas parameter
     module 50, and/or based on other information. The breathing parameters may indicate a
     respiratory effort of subject 12. This includes one or more of a thoracic respiratory effort,
     an abdominal respiratory effort, and/or other parameters indicating respiratory effort. The
     one or more breathing parameters may include, for example, a tidal volume, a
     composition, a timing (e.g., beginning and/or end of inhalation, beginning and/or end of
     exhalation, etc.), a duration (e.g., of inhalation, of exhalation, of a single breathing cycle,
     etc.), a breath rate, a respiration frequency, and/or other parameters.
[29]                  In some embodiments, breathing parameter module 52 is configured to
     determine one or more baseline levels of the one or more breathing parameters. The one
     or more baseline levels of the one or more breathing parameters may be related to normal
     respiration of subject 12. In some embodiments, breathing parameter module 52
     determines the one or more baseline levels of the one or more breathing parameters based
     on previous respiration by subject 12. By way of a non-limiting example, breathing
     parameter module 52 may determine at least one baseline level of at least one breathing
     parameter for each inhalation in a series of consecutive inhalations. The at least one
     determined breathing parameter may include, for instance, a tidal volume, and/or other
                                                    -8-

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
     breathing parameters. Breathing parameter module 52 may determine a baseline tidal
     volume level for each inhalation. By way of another non-limiting example, breathing
     parameter module 52 may determine at least one breathing parameter for a series of
     consecutive inhalations in addition to the breathing parameter determined for each
     individual inhalation. For example, breathing parameter module 52 may determine an
     average tidal volume for a series of consecutive inhalations. Breathing parameter module
     52 may determine an average baseline tidal volume level for the series of consecutive
     inhalations.
[30]                 Respiratory event detection module 54 is configured to detect respiratory
     sleep events. These events include events that result in irregular breathing during sleep or
     near sleep states. Such events may include, for example, airway obstruction and/or other
     events. Respiratory sleep events including airway obstruction may be detected based on
     the output signals of sensors 18, information determined by gas parameter module 50,
     information determined by breathing parameter module 52, and/or based on other
     information. In some embodiments, respiratory sleep events detected by respiratory event
     detection module 54 may be related to obstructive sleep apnea.
[31]                 Respiratory event detection module 54 is configured to detect respiratory
     sleep events (e.g., airway obstruction) during normal breathing of subject 12. In some
     embodiments, the information indicating respiratory sleep events comprises one or more
     gas parameters (e.g. pressure, flow rate, and/or other gas parameters), one or more
     breathing parameters (e.g., a tidal volume, a composition, a timing, a duration, a breath
     rate, peak flow, airway pressure, and/or other breathing parameters), and/or other
     information. Detection of respiratory sleep events may comprise, for example, output
     signals and/or parameters that indicate respiratory effort (e.g., thoracic respiratory effort
     and/or abdominal respiratory effort) without a corresponding inflow of breathable gas, a
     reduction in tidal volume, and/or changes in other output signals and/or parameters. In
     some embodiments, respiratory sleep events may be determined based on a comparison of
     parameters from a current inhalation to parameters determined during previous respiration
     by subject 12. In some embodiments, respiratory event detection module 54 may be
                                                  -9-

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
     configured to detect respiratory sleep events such as airway obstruction based on forced
     oscillation technique. This is not intended to be limiting, as any number of techniques for
     detecting respiratory sleep events could be implemented without departing from the scope
     of this disclosure.
[32]                   For example, FIG. 3 illustrates an occurrence of an event 300 between two
     normal breaths 302, 304. In some embodiments, event 300 may indicate obstructive sleep
     apnea, for example. In the example shown in FIG. 3, event 300 may be detected because
     the flow rate did not increase 306, 308 at event 300 as it would during a normal
     inhalation.
[331                   Returning to FIG. 1, in some embodiments, respiratory event detection
     module 54 is configured to detect respiratory sleep events based on one or more gas
     parameters, one or more breathing parameters, and/or one or more other parameters
     breaching a threshold level (e.g., pressure and/or flow rate breaching threshold(s)). The
     threshold levels may be configurable to a user (e.g., subject 12, a doctor, a caregiver, a
     researcher, and/or other users), predefined at manufacture, determined based on previous
     respiration by subject 12, and/or determined in other manners. The threshold levels may
     include the one or more baseline levels of the one or more breathing parameters
     determined by breathing parameter module 52. For example, airway obstruction may be
     detected responsive to subject 12 not reaching a minimum inhaled tidal volume in a given
     amount of time for a current breath after exhalation of a previous breath.
[34]                   Pulse parameter module 56 is configured to obtain one or more pulse
     parameters of the pulse of breathable gas. The pulse of breathable gas may comprise a
     temporary bolus of breathable gas. The pulse of breathable gas is configured to open the
     airway of subject 12 prior to a subsequent inhalation. The one or more pulse parameters
     for the pulse are obtained before generation of the pulse. The parameters may be obtained
     based on statistical analysis of the effectiveness of previous pulses of breathable gas. The
     set of initial pulse parameters could be set from a menu with multiple parameter options.
     However, once enough data is collected by processor 20, the set of initial conditions may
     be dynamically adjusted during each usage as more information on the effectiveness of the
                                                   - 10 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
     pulses is gathered by processor 20. The pulse parameters may include, for example, one
     or more of amplitude, a period, a timing of the pulse, and/or other parameters.
[35]                 For example, FIG. 4 illustrates a pressure pulse 400 with amplitude 402
     and a period 404. In some embodiments, a form of the pressure pulse (e.g., a waveform)
     may be configured as a square wave (as shown in FIG. 4), a sine wave, a triangular wave,
     and/or other wave form shapes.
[36]                 Returning to FIG. 1, pulse parameter module 56 may be configured to
     adjust the pulse parameters of the pulse of breathable gas. The adjustment of the pulse
     parameters is configured to enhance an effectiveness of a current pulse relative to the
     effectiveness of one or more previous pulses. The effectiveness of a pulse is related to
     and/or quantified by an amount the airway of subject 12 is opened, the extent to which
     subject 12 begins breathing, and/or other information. The adjustment is based on
     information conveyed by the output signals from sensors 18 during the one or more
     previous pulses, information determined by gas parameter module 50, information
     determined by breathing parameter module 52, information entered by subject 12 and/or
     other users to user interface 22, and/or other information. In some embodiments, pulse
     parameter module 56 may be configured to determine the effectiveness of a pulse by
     analyzing gas and/or breathing parameter information related to one or more previous
     pulses and the one or more corresponding inhalations. The analyzed information may be
     used to adjust the current pulse. The adjustment comprises changing one or more of the
     amplitude (e.g., the pressure level of the pulse), the period, the timing, and/or other
     parameters of the pulse. In some embodiments, the period (e.g., the duration) is kept to a
     minimum level while the amplitude, timing, and/or other parameters are adjusted. In some
     embodiments, the shape of the pressure pulse waveform may be adjusted by adjusting the
     amplitude, period, timing, and/or other parameters of the pulse.
[37]                 By way of a first non-limiting example, if a given pressure pulse had a
     pressure support level of 3 cmH 2 0 and was ineffective in opening the airway of subject 12,
     the next pressure pulse may be 4 cmH 20. By way of a second non-limiting example,
     another adjustment may increase and/or decrease the period (duration) of the pressure
                                                  - 11 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                            PCT/IB2013/059947
     pulse. In some embodiments, the period of the pressure pulse may be kept shorter than
     the inhalation time. In some embodiments, the period of the pressure pulse may be less
     than approximately half of inhalation time such that the pulse is a temporary bolus of
     breathable gas.
[381                  By way of a third non-limiting example, pulse parameter module 56 may be
     configured to adjust a timing of the pulse of breathable gas. The timing of the pulse of
     breathable gas may be based on a breathing rate calculation. If the breathing rate of subject
     12 is ten breaths per minute, subject 12 has six second breaths on average. Thus, if
     subject 12 does not inhale normally, a pulse may be generated at most after six seconds.
     Assuming a one half inhalation time to exhalation time ratio for this example, an optimal
     delivery of the pressure pulse may be four seconds after the end of the previous inhalation.
     However, a pressure pulse may be delivered every six seconds to avoid user arousals.
     Control module 58 may be configured such that if an exhalation last longer than four
     seconds (e.g., if subject 12 does not inhale normally) and/or a respiratory sleep event (e.g.,
     airway obstruction) is detected, a pressure pulse may be delivered. It should be noted that
     the assumptions and/or timings discussed in this example related to the timing of a pulse
     are not intended to be limiting.
[391                  Control module 58 is configured to control pressure generator 14 to
     generate the pulse of breathable gas for delivery to the airway of subject 12. Control
     module 58 is configured to control pressure generator 14 to deliver the pulse responsive
     to detection of respiratory sleep events (e.g., airway obstruction) by respiratory event
     detection module 54. The pulse is delivered to the airway of subject 12 such that the
     airway of subject 12 is opened prior to a subsequent inhalation and/or ventilation. Control
     module 58 is configured to control pressure generator 14 to deliver the pulse in
     accordance with the pulse parameters obtained and/or adjusted by pulse parameter module
     56 prior to the pulse. For example, control module 58 may be configured to control
     pressure generator 14 to deliver the pulse responsive to detection of airway obstruction
     and/or in accordance with a timing obtained by pulse parameter module 56. In some
     embodiments, the pulse of breathable gas can be a square wave. Moreover, the square
                                                  - 12 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
     wave can have smooth edges to increase comfort and decrease the likelihood of arousing
     subject 12. In some embodiments, the pulse of breathable gas can be a saw wave with a
     ramping time adjusted based on efficacy of the therapy to mitigate obstructions during
     respiration. Finally, the parameters that will control the duration and magnitude of the
     pulse of breathable gas may initially be selected from a control menu and then
     automatically adjusted by control module 58 based on the statistical effectiveness in
     clearing the airway obstruction of the previous pulses.
[40]                  Control module 58 is configured to control pressure generator 14 to
     provide the pressurized flow of breathable gas to the airway of the subject according to a
     positive airway pressure support therapy regime (e.g., CPAP, APAP, BiPAP). Control
     module 58 is configured to control pressure generator 14 to provide a minimum amount of
     positive airway pressure support during inhalation (e.g., IPAP) and/or exhalation (e.g.,
     EPAP). Delivering a minimum amount of pressure support and providing a pulse when
     needed may increase the comfort level of subject 12 during therapy. The minimum
     amount of positive airway pressure support may comprise delivering the pressurized flow
     of breathable gas at a minimum pressure level. The minimum pressure level may be
     configured such that carbon dioxide re-breathing is substantially avoided during pressure
     support therapy. In some embodiments, the inhalation positive airway pressure may be
     less than about 7mmH 20. In some embodiments, the inhalation positive airway pressure
     may be between about 1cmH 20 and about 7cmH 20. In some embodiments, the inhalation
     positive airway pressure level may be zero if there is no carbon dioxide rebreathing by
     subject 12. Control module 58 controls pressure generator 14 to deliver the pulse as
     needed in addition to the positive airway pressure support.
[41]                  Control module 58 is configured to control pressure generator 14 to
     generate pulses as needed such that subject 12 may maintain a regular breathing pattern.
     FIG. 5 illustrates a regular flow rate profile 500 for four consecutive breaths 502, 504,
     506, and 508. One or more of breaths 502, 504, 506, and/or 508 may be preceded by the
     control module (shown in FIG. 1) controlling the pressure generator (shown in FIG. 1) to
                                                   - 13 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
     generate a pulse for delivery to the airway of the subject (shown in FIG. 1) such that the
     subject's airway is opened prior to and/or at the beginning of the inhalation.
[42]                  Returning to FIG. 1, user interface 22 is configured to provide an interface
     between system 10 and subject 12 and/or other users through which subject 12 and/or
     other users may provide information to and receive information from system 10. User
     interface 22 may be configured to receive entry and/or selection of control inputs related
     to the positive airway pressure support therapy regime, the pulse parameters, and/or other
     information from subject 12 and/or other users. Other users may comprise a caregiver, a
     doctor, a decision maker, and/or other users. This enables data, cues, results, and/or
     instructions and any other communicable items, collectively referred to as "information,"
     to be communicated between a user (e.g., subject 12) and one or more of pressure
     generator 14, processor 20, and/or other components of system 10. Examples of interface
     devices suitable for inclusion in user interface 22 comprise a keypad, buttons, switches, a
     keyboard, knobs, levers, a display screen, a touch screen, speakers, a microphone, an
     indicator light, an audible alarm, a printer, a tactile feedback device, and/or other interface
     devices. In some embodiments, user interface 22 comprises a plurality of separate
     interfaces. In some embodiments, user interface 22 comprises at least one interface that is
     provided integrally with pressure generator 14.
[431                  It is to be understood that other communication techniques, either hard
     wired or wireless, are also contemplated by the present disclosure as user interface 22.
     For example, the present disclosure contemplates that user interface 22 may be integrated
     with a removable storage interface provided by electronic storage 24. In this example,
     information may be loaded into system 10 from removable storage (e.g., a smart card, a
     flash drive, a removable disk, etc.) that enables the user(s) to customize the
     implementation of system 10. Other exemplary input devices and techniques adapted for
     use with system 10 as user interface 22 comprise, but are not limited to, an RS-232 port,
     RF link, an IR link, modem (telephone, cable or other). In short, any technique for
     communicating information with system 10 is contemplated by the present disclosure as
     user interface 22.
                                                   - 14 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                              PCT/IB2013/059947
[441                  In some embodiments, electronic storage 24 comprises electronic storage
     media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic
     storage 24 may comprise one or both of system storage that is provided integrally (i.e.,
     substantially non-removable) with system 10 and/or removable storage that is removably
     connectable to system 10 via, for example, a port (e.g., a USB port, a firewire port, etc.)
     or a drive (e.g., a disk drive, etc.). Electronic storage 24 may comprise one or more of
     optically readable storage media (e.g., optical disks, etc.), magnetically readable storage
     media (e.g., magnetic tape, magnetic hard drive, floppy drive, etc.), electrical charge-based
     storage media (e.g., EPROM, RAM, etc.), solid-state storage media (e.g., flash drive,
     etc.), and/or other electronically readable storage media. Electronic storage 24 may store
     software algorithms, information determined by processor 20, information received via
     user interface 22, and/or other information that enables system 10 to function properly.
     Electronic storage 24 may be (in whole or in part) a separate component within system 10,
     or electronic storage 24 may be provided (in whole or in part) integrally with one or more
     other components of system 10 (e.g., user interface 22, processor 20, etc.).
[451                  FIG. 6 illustrates a method 600 for providing pressure support to the
     airway of a subject with a pressure support system. The system comprises a pressure
     generator, one or more sensors, and one or more processors. The one or more processors
     are configured to execute computer program modules. The computer program modules
     comprise a respiratory event detection module, a pulse parameter module, and a control
     module. The operations of method 600 presented below are intended to be illustrative. In
     some embodiments, method 600 may be accomplished with one or more additional
     operations not described, and/or without one or more of the operations discussed.
     Additionally, the order in which the operations of method 600 are illustrated in FIG. 6 and
     described below is not intended to be limiting.
[46]                  In some embodiments, method 600 may be implemented in one or more
     processing devices (e.g., a digital processor, an analog processor, a digital circuit designed
     to process information, an analog circuit designed to process information, a state machine,
     and/or other mechanisms for electronically processing information). The one or more
                                                   - 15 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
     processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the
     operations of method 600 in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic
     storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices
     configured through hardware, firmware, and/or software to be specifically designed for
     execution of one or more of the operations of method 600.
[471                 At an operation 602, a pressurized flow of breathable gas is generated for
     delivery to an airway of a subject. In some embodiments, operation 602 is performed by a
     pressure generator the same as or similar to pressure generator 14 (shown in FIG. 1 and
     described herein).
[48]                 At an operation 604, output signals conveying information related to one
     or more parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas are generated. In some
     embodiments, operation 604 is performed by sensors the same as or similar to sensors 18
     (shown in FIG. 1 and described herein).
[49]                 At an operation 606, airway obstruction is detected. At operation 606,
     other respiratory sleep events instead of and/or in addition to airway obstruction may be
     detected. In some embodiments, operation 606 is performed by a computer program
     module the same as or similar to respiratory event detection module 54 (shown in FIG. 1
     and described herein).
[501                 At an operation 608, one or more pulse parameters of a pulse of breathable
     gas are obtained. In some embodiments, operation 608 is performed by a computer
     program module the same as or similar to pulse parameter module 56 (shown in FIG. 1
     and described herein).
[51]                 At an operation 610, responsive to the detection of airway obstruction
     and/or other respiratory sleep events, the pulse of breathable gas for is generated for
     delivery to the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained pulse parameters. In
     some embodiments, operation 610 is performed by a pressure generator the same as or
     similar to pressure generator 14 (shown in FIG. 1 and described herein). In some
     embodiments, the pressure generator is controlled to generate the pulse of breathable gas
                                                 - 16 -

     WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
     by a computer program module the same as or similar to control module 58 (shown in
     FIG. 1 and described herein).
[52]                  In the claims, any reference signs placed between parentheses shall not be
     construed as limiting the claim. The word "comprising" or "including" does not exclude
     the presence of elements or steps other than those listed in a claim. In a device claim
     enumerating several means, several of these means may be embodied by one and the same
     item of hardware. The word "a" or "an" preceding an element does not exclude the
     presence of a plurality of such elements. In any device claim enumerating several means,
     several of these means may be embodied by one and the same item of hardware. The mere
     fact that certain elements are recited in mutually different dependent claims does not
     indicate that these elements cannot be used in combination.
[531                  Although the description provided above provides detail for the purpose of
     illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred
     embodiments, it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the
     disclosure is not limited to the expressly disclosed embodiments, but, on the contrary, is
     intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and
     scope of the appended claims. For example, it is to be understood that the present
     disclosure contemplates that, to the extent possible, one or more features of any
     embodiment can be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment.
                                                  - 17 -

WO 2014/072915                                                            PCT/IB2013/059947
CLAIMS:
                 1. A pressure generation system for a pressure support system (10), the
pressure generation system comprising:
                a pressure generator (14) configured to generate a pressurized flow of
breathable gas for delivery to the airway of a subject (12);
                one or more sensors (18) configured to generate output signals conveying
information related to one or more parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas;
and
                one or more processors (20) configured to execute computer program
modules, the computer program modules comprising:
                                a respiratory event detection module (54) configured to
detect airway obstruction, wherein airway obstruction is detected based on the output
signals of the sensors;
                                a pulse parameter module (56) configured to obtain one or
more pulse parameters of a pulse of breathable gas, the pulse comprising a temporary
bolus of breathable gas, the pulse configured to open the airway of the subject; and
                                a control module (58) configured to control the pressure
generator to generate, responsive to detection of airway obstruction, the pulse of
breathable gas for delivery to the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained
pulse parameters.
                2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more pulse parameters for
the pulse are obtained before generation of the pulse, and wherein the pulse parameters
include one or more of an amplitude, a period, or a timing.
                3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer program modules further
comprise a breathing parameter module (52) configured to determine one or more baseline
levels of one or more breathing parameters of the subject, the one or more baseline levels
                                             - 18 -

WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
of the one or more breathing parameters related to normal respiration of the subject, the
one or more baseline levels of the one or more breathing parameters determined based on
the output signals of the sensors,
                and wherein the respiratory event detection module is configured to detect
airway obstruction responsive to one or more of the breathing parameters breaching one
or more of the baseline levels.
                4. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulse parameter module is
configured to adjust the pulse parameters of the pulse of breathable gas, the adjustment
configured to enhance an effectiveness of a current pulse relative to one or more previous
pulses, the effectiveness related to an amount the airway of the subject is opened, the
adjustment based on information conveyed by the output signals during the one or more
previous pulses, the adjustment comprising changing one or more of an amplitude, a
period, or a timing of the pulse.
                5. The system of claim 1, wherein the control module is configured to
control the pressure generator to provide the pressurized flow of breathable gas to the
airway of the subject according to a positive airway pressure support therapy regime,
wherein the control module is configured to control the pressure generator to provide a
minimum amount of positive pressure airway support, and wherein the control module
controls the pressure generator to deliver the pulse in addition to the positive airway
pressure support.
                6. A method (600) for generating pressure with a pressure generation
system for a pressure support system (10), the pressure generation system comprising a
pressure generator (14), one or more sensors (18), and one or more processors (20), the
one or more processors configured to execute computer program modules, the computer
program modules comprising an respiratory event detection module (54), a pulse
parameter module (56), and a control module (58), the method comprising:
                                            - 19 -

WO 2014/072915                                                            PCT/IB2013/059947
                generating a pressurized flow of breathable gas for delivery to the airway
of a subject (12) with the pressure generator;
                generating output signals conveying information related to one or more
parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas with the one or more sensors;
                detecting airway obstruction with the airway obstruction module, wherein
airway obstruction is detected based on the output signals generated by the sensors;
                obtaining one or more pulse parameters of a pulse of breathable gas with
the pulse parameter module, the pulse comprising a temporary bolus of breathable gas, the
pulse configured to open the airway of the subject; and
                controlling the pressure generator with the control module to generate,
responsive to detection of airway obstruction, the pulse of breathable gas for delivery to
the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained pulse parameters.
                7. The method of claim 6, wherein the one or more pulse parameters for
the pulse are obtained before generation of the pulse, and wherein the pulse parameters
include one or more of an amplitude, a period, or a timing.
                8. The method of claim 6, wherein the computer program modules further
comprise a breathing parameter module (52), the method further comprising determining
one or more baseline levels of one or more breathing parameters of the subject with the
breathing parameter module, the one or more baseline levels of the one or more breathing
parameters related to normal respiration of the subject, the one or more baseline levels of
the one or more breathing parameters determined based on the output signals generated by
the sensors,
                and wherein airway obstruction is detected responsive to one or more of
the breathing parameters breaching one or more of the baseline levels.
                9. The method of claim 6, further comprising adjusting the pulse
parameters of the pulse of breathable gas with the pulse parameter module, the adjustment
                                            - 20 -

WO 2014/072915                                                             PCT/IB2013/059947
configured to enhance an effectiveness of a current pulse relative to one or more previous
pulses, the effectiveness related to an amount the airway of the subject is opened, the
adjustment based on information conveyed by the output signals during the one or more
previous pulses, the adjustment comprising changing one or more of an amplitude, a
period, or a timing of the pulse.
                10. The method of claim 6, further comprising controlling the pressure
generator with the control module to provide the pressurized flow of breathable gas to the
airway of the subject according to a positive airway pressure support therapy regime,
controlling the pressure generator to provide a minimum amount of positive pressure
airway support, and controlling the pressure generator to deliver the pulse in addition to
the positive airway pressure support.
                11. A pressure generation system for a pressure support system (10), the
pressure generation system comprising:
                means (14) for generating a pressurized flow of breathable gas for delivery
to the airway of a subject (12);
                means (18) for generating output signals conveying information related to
one or more parameters of the pressurized flow of breathable gas; and
                means (20) for executing computer program modules, the computer
program modules comprising:
                                 means (54) for detecting airway obstruction, wherein airway
obstruction is detected based on the output signals;
                                 means (56) for obtaining one or more pulse parameters of a
pulse of breathable gas, the pulse comprising a temporary bolus of breathable gas, the
pulse configured to open the airway of the subject; and
                                 means (58) for controlling the means for generating a
pressurized flow to generate, responsive to detection of airway obstruction, the pulse of
                                             - 21 -

WO 2014/072915                                                            PCT/IB2013/059947
breathable gas for delivery to the airway of the subject in accordance with the obtained
pulse parameters.
                12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more pulse parameters for
the pulse are obtained before generation of the pulse, and wherein the pulse parameters
include one or more of an amplitude, a period, or a timing.
                13. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer program modules
further comprise means (52) for determining one or more baseline levels of one or more
breathing parameters of the subject, the one or more baseline levels of the one or more
breathing parameters related to normal respiration of the subject, the one or more baseline
levels of the one or more breathing parameters determined based on the output signals of
the sensors,
                and wherein the means for detecting airway obstruction is configured to
detect airway obstruction responsive to one or more of the breathing parameters breaching
one or more of the baseline levels.
                14. The system of claim 11, wherein the means for obtaining one or more
pulse parameters is configured to adjust the pulse parameters of the pulse of breathable
gas, the adjustment configured to enhance an effectiveness of a current pulse relative to
one or more previous pulses, the effectiveness related to an amount the airway of the
subject is opened, the adjustment based on information conveyed by the output signals
during the one or more previous pulses, the adjustment comprising changing one or more
of an amplitude, a period, or a timing of the pulse.
                15. The system of claim 11, wherein the means for controlling is
configured to control the means for generating the pressurized flow to provide the
pressurized flow of breathable gas to the airway of the subject according to a positive
airway pressure support therapy regime, wherein the means for controlling is configured
                                            - 22 -

WO 2014/072915                                                            PCT/IB2013/059947
to control the means for generating the pressurized flow to provide a minimum amount of
positive pressure airway support, and wherein the means for controlling controls the
means for generating the pressurized flow to deliver the pulse in addition to the positive
airway pressure support.
                                           - 23 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
