   Abstract
   The invention provides an adjustable, generally vertical, support 10 to support
   structure 12. Support 10 has a foot 24 for contacting a floor, a top part 30 and a
   lower part 32.
 5 Adjustment means 38 is able to adjust the vertical relationship between top part
   30 and lower part 32.
   A preferred form of adjustment means 38 is an externally threaded shaft 40 and
   an internally threaded nut 44.
   In one embodiment, a sleeve 48 extends from top part 30 to overlap with lower
10 part 32.
                                          7

          0
    (NN
                   LL
(NN
        m   N
            N N0
                 N

     Adjustable Support
     FIELD OF INVENTION
     This invention relates to an adjustable support of the type which can be used to
     support a bench, a table, a wall, a locker or the like. In particular, the invention
  5  provides an adjustable support which can be useful in environments exposed to
    water, including pool water.
     BACKGROUND ART
     Especially in commercial, sporting or large residential environments, supports may
    be used to support, above the floor, structures such as benches, tables, walls for
10  toilet enclosures, lockers, vanities and similar installations. Such supports are
    preferably adjustable, to compensate for variations or intended falls in floor levels.
    Traditionally, the adjustment has included a metal, threaded bolt which can be
    threaded upwardly or downwardly to the extent desired to make the adjustment.
    The metal bolt is usually located at the foot of the support.
15  Such environments are often exposed to water, during cleaning or from use of
    nearby pools, saunas, showers and the like. The metal bolt is prone to rusting in
    such environments and may be contaminated by dust or debris.
    There is a need to provide an adjustable support which can avoid or minimise
    exposure to rusting, dust and debris while at the same time being adaptable to a
20  range of applications in the type of structure being supported.
    The above references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
    intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of
    common general knowledge in the art. In particular, the above prior art discussion
    does not relate to what is commonly or well known by the person skilled in the art,
25  but assists in the understanding of the inventive step of the present invention of
    which the identification of pertinent prior art proposals is but one part.
                                                1

     STATEMENT OF INVENTION
    Accordingly, this invention provides an adjustable support for a structure, the
    support being generally vertical in use and having:
         -  a foot for contacting a generally horizontal surface; and
  5      -  an upper portion for supporting the structure;
    wherein the upper portion includes a top part and a lower part, and adjustment
    means for adjusting vertical relationship between the top part and the lower part.
    Preferably, the adjustable support is in the form of a leg, although the invention is
    not limited to this. When the support of the invention is a leg, it is preferred that
 10 the leg is circulator in cross-section, although it may take any other suitable
    shape.
    The support may be any suitable height, to suit the structure to be supported. For
    example, if the structure is a bench, the support is preferably about 450 mm high.
    The foot may be the same shape as the support and may be integral with the
15  support. In a preferred embodiment, the foot includes means for fixing the support
    to the floor, such as screws or bolts. The foot may have a cover to conceal the
    fixing means.
    The upper portion of the support of the invention has a top part and a lower part.
    The top part is intended to contact the structure to be supported. The top part may
20  be attached to the structure in any suitable way. One example is a right-angled
    bracket, attached to or part of the top part and which may be screwed to the
    structure. Other ways of attaching the top part to the structure are within the
    scope of the invention. One example is welding.
    The lower part may be held in a vertical relationship with the top part by the
25  adjustment means. The adjustment means may take any suitable form. In a
    preferred embodiment, the adjustment means includes an externally threaded
    shaft located in the lower part and a mating piece having an internally threaded
    aperture located in the top part. In another preferred embodiment, the adjustment
                                               2

   means includes an externally threaded shaft located in the top part and a mating
   piece having an internally threaded aperture located in the lower part. Rotation of
   the lower part adjusts the vertical relationship between the lower part and the
   upper part.
 5 The mating piece may be a nut. If desired, a second nut may be located on the
   lower part or top part, respectively, the threaded shaft being threaded through
   both nuts.
   It is preferred that the adjustment means, when it comprises a threaded shaft and
   one or two nuts, is made predominantly from steel, more preferably stainless
10 steel. It is preferred that the remainder of the adjustable support is made
   predominantly of aluminium or other material which resists damage by water.
   If desired, the adjustment means may be protected by a sleeve. In this
   embodiment, the sleeve is preferably an extension of the top part, covering not
   only the adjustment means but also some of the lower part. The sleeve can also
15 act to exclude dust and fibres from the adjustment means, as well as being
   aesthetically pleasing.
   While the structure to be supported may be chosen from a wide range, for
   simplicity the invention will be described in relation to the structure being a bench.
   It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to this application.
20
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting description
   of preferred embodiments, in which:
            Figure 1 is a front elevation (partly in cross-section) of a bench bracket
25          having an embodiment of two adjustable supports in accordance with the
            present invention;
            Figure 2 is a side elevation of the Figure 1 embodiment;
            Figure 3 is a plan view of the embodiment in Figures 1 and 2; and
                                                3

            Figure 4 is an enlarged view of the part of Figure 1 outlined by the oval.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described with particular
 5 reference to the accompanying drawings. However, it is to be understood that the
   features illustrated in and described with reference to the drawings are not to be
   construed as limiting on the scope of the invention.
   Shown in Figures 1 to 4 is a pair of adjustable supports 10, which together
   support structure 12, which in this embodiment is a bracket for a bench (not
10 shown). Bracket 12 has a wide end 14 for attachment to a wall through screws 16
   (Figure 2) and a narrow end 18. A bench made of timber or other material is fixed
   to bracket 12 through screws 20, only some of which are labelled (Figure 3).
   Each adjustable support 10 is generally vertical in use, as shown and takes the
   form of a leg 22. Each leg 22 has a foot 24 for contacting a generally horizontal
15 surface (not shown), which is preferably suitable for fixing of leg 22 via three bolts
   26, some only labelled and shown in dashed outline in Figure 3.
   Leg 22 has a top part 30 and a lower part 32. Top part 30 is welded to bracket 12
   at vertical part 34 and horizontal part 36. Lower part 32 is part of leg 22. Inserted
   in top part 30 and portion of lower part 32 are plugs 41 and 42 (Figure 1).
20 As shown in detail in Figure 4, adjustment means 38 includes an externally
   threaded shaft 40 mounted in a channel in plugs 41 and 42. First nut 44 is
   attached to plug 41, while second nut 46 is attached to plug 42. Each of nuts 44
   and 46 has internal threads, complementing the external thread on shaft 40.
   Rotation of lower part 32 enables vertical adjustment of top part 30, so that
25 bracket 12 can be aligned horizontally, despite any defect in the level of the floor.
   It will appreciated by a person skilled in the art that, instead of first and second
   nuts 44 and 46, the adjustable support of the invention may use only one nut,
   either first nut 44 attached to plug 41 or second nut 46 attached to plug 42.
   In this embodiment as shown on the drawings, top part 30 has a sleeve 48 which
                                               4

   extends over nuts 44 and 46 and overlaps with some of lower part 32. Sleeve 48
   can be effective in keeping shaft 40 and nuts 44, 46 dry and free of debris.
   It is preferred that foot 24 includes a separate cover, which conceals bolts 26
   once fixed to the floor.
 5 Conveniently, leg 22, foot 24, lower part 32 (excluding plug 42) and top part 30
   (excluding plug 41) as well as sleeve 48 are made of aluminium, while shaft 40
   and nuts 44 and 46 are made of stainless steel.
   Because attachments means 38 is well above the floor and, if sleeve 48 is
   present, shielded by sleeve 48, penetration of water, dust and debris into
10 adjustment means 38 is minimised.
                                            5

      Claims
      1.     An adjustable support for a structure, the support being generally vertical in
             use and having:
   5     -   a foot for contacting a generally horizontal surface; and
             an upper portion for supporting the structure;
            wherein the upper portion includes a top part and a lower part, and
            adjustment means for adjusting vertical relationship between the top part
            and the lower part.
 10  2.     The adjustable support of claim 1,when in the form of a leg.
     3.     The adjustable support of claim 1 or 2, wherein the adjustment means
            includes an externally threaded shaft and an internally threaded nut.
     4.     The adjustable support of claim 3, which includes a sleeve being an
            extension of the top part and overlapping with some of the lower part.
 1s  5.     The adjustable support of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the adjustment
            means is made predominantly of stainless steel and the remainder is made
            predominantly of aluminium.
20
                                               6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
