                                        ABSTRACT
The described invention relates to systems and methods for applying a total contact cast to
a patient for treatment of a wound on an appendage, such as a leg or foot. While the cast
system can comprise any suitable component, in some cases, it includes a clam-shell cast, a
foot support defining (or customizable to define) an offloading hole, and a cast
underlayment (such as a compression sock, a padding sock, and/or additional padding). In
some implementations, a first length of the clam-shell cast is applied to a patient's calf, a
second length of the cast is applied to across a patient's foot, and a third length is folded up
over the patient's foot to extend up a portion of the patient's calf. In some cases, a strap or
wing is used to attach the first and the third lengths together. Other implementations are
also described.

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     1
           SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING A TOTAL CONTACT AND
                                         OFFLOADING CAST
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5 1.      Field of the Invention
           The present invention relates to orthopedic casts. In particular, some implementations of
   the present invention relate to one or more components of a total contact cast system that can be
   used in the treatment of an appendage, such as a leg or foot. Indeed, in some implementations,
   the described cast system is configured to support a patient's foot and leg, while offloading
 0 weight from a sore, ulcer, or wound on the patient's foot.
   2.      Background and Related Art
           People across the world suffer from ulcerations and injuries to one or both of their feet.
   For instance, as many people suffering from diabetes also suffer from poor blood flow in their
   appendages, such people can be at a relatively high risk of developing sores, wounds, or ulcers
 5 on their feet - especially on the soles of their feet. Such sores, ulcers, and other wounds can
   dramatically affect an individual's life, limiting the individual's ability to walk, work, and play,
   and costing the individual (or others) relatively large amounts of money and time spent in, and
   for, recovery. Additionally, in some extreme cases, such sores, ulcers, and wounds can lead to
   amputation, which can dramatically increase healthcare costs, and otherwise complicate life.
 0         One important factor in healing foot wounds is offloading the patient's weight from the
   wound. However, as many individuals (including diabetics) suffer from neuropathy (or nerve
   damage in one or more appendages), many such individuals often cannot feel the pain that is
   normally associated with foot sores, ulcerations and/or wounds.            As a result, some such
   individuals may not be highly motivated by pain to reduce pressure applied to a damaged portion
25 of the foot, which may ultimately lead to tissue breakdown, ulceration, and other damage.
   Accordingly, some such individuals may continue to place detrimental amounts of weight on
   their foot and/or a wound thereon - thus causing the wound to further deteriorate, and thus,
   increasing the chances of infection and other comorbidities.
           Several casts, boots, and other devices have been developed to treat individuals suffering
30 from foot ulcerations, sores, and other wounds. While some such devices have been useful in
   the treatment of such wounds, such devices are not necessarily without their shortcomings.
   Indeed, some conventional devices for treating foot wounds are relatively: hard to put on, hard to

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                       2
   take off, uncomfortable, non-breathable, ineffective at offloading weight from wounds in
   abnormal locations, hard to use with other apparatus (e.g., negative pressure wound therapy),
   and/or are otherwise difficult to use or ineffective at treating these wounds.
            Thus, while techniques currently exist that are used to treat foot wounds, ulcerations, and
 5 sores, challenges still exist, including those mentioned above.        Accordingly, it would be an
   improvement in the art to augment or even replace current techniques with other techniques.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates to orthopedic casts. In particular, some implementations of
   the present invention relate to one or more components of a total contact cast system that can be
 0 used in the treatment of an appendage, such as a leg or foot. Indeed, in some implementations,
   the described cast system is configured to support a patient's foot and leg, while offloading
   weight from a wound on the patient's foot and distributing such weight to one or more other
   portions of the patient's leg (e.g., a forefoot, arch, heel, Achilles tendon, cone of the lower leg,
   etc.).
 5          While the described orthopedic cast system can comprise any suitable component or
   characteristic, in some implementations, it includes a "clam-shell" cast, a foot support, one or
   more cast underlayments, and/or a footplate/boot. With respect to the clam-shell cast (or cast),
   the cast can comprise any suitable component or characteristic that allows it to be applied over a
   first surface of a patient's body (e.g., a posterior portion of a patient's lower leg or calf), to be
 0 applied over a portion of the patient's foot, and then to be applied over a second surface of the
   patient's body (e.g., an anterior portion of a patient's lower leg or shin), wherein the second
   surface is substantially opposite to the first surface. Indeed, in some cases, the cast comprises an
   elongated piece of hardenable casting material that is configured to extend substantially
   vertically along a longitudinal axis of a posterior portion (or calf) of a patient's lower leg, bend
25 around the patient's heel, extend along a sole of the patient's foot, bend up over one or more of
   the patient's toes, extend across a dorsal portion of the patient's foot, and extend vertically along
   an anterior portion (or shin) of the patient's lower leg.
            While an anterior portion and a posterior portion of the cast can be attached to each other
   and a patient's appendage (e.g., lower leg) in any suitable manner (e.g., via one or more elastic
30 bands, pieces of casting material, belts, cords, straps, ties, fasteners, pieces of tape, and/or any
   other suitable connector), in some embodiments, the cast comprises one or more straps and/or

       WO 2015/006766                                                       PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    3
   wings that are configured to extend from the anterior and/or the posterior portion of the cast and
   to overlap the opposite portion of the cast. While these wings and/or straps can perform any
   suitable function, in some instances, they connect various portions of the cast together,
   strengthen the cast, and/or help spread weight across a portion of an appendage (thereby
 5 offloading weight from a wound on the appendage).
            With regard to the foot support, the foot support can comprise any suitable padding that
   allows a portion of the patient's weight to be offloaded from a wound on the sole (or another
   portion) of the patient's foot. In some implementations, the padding comprises at least two
   layers of padding, with each layer having a different durometer value. As a result, some such
 0 implementations are able to cushion a foot, while offloading pressure from a wound on the foot.
            In some implementations, the foot support defines (or is configured to readily be
   modified to define) an offloading hole that is configured to correspond in position to (and
   otherwise reduce pressure that is applied to) a wound on a patient's foot.         While such an
   offloading hole can be defined in the foot support in any suitable manner, in some
 5 implementations (depending on the type of foot support selected), the hole is cut in the support
   (e.g., free hand, with a scissors, a punch, knife, etc.), is made by removing portions of the
   support along one or more perforated lines in the support, and/or by adding to the foot support an
   additional padding layer defining an offloading hole.
            In some implementations, the foot support further comprises a toe guard that is
 0 configured to be disposed within the cast and to extend over a portion of one or more of a
   patient's toes. While the toe guard can comprise any suitable characteristic that allows it to
   function as described, in some cases, the toe guard comprises a portion having a box shape, a
   rounded shape, and/or another suitable shape that is resiliently (or rigidly) formed in the foot
   support to help protect a patient's toes.
25          With respect to the cast underlayment, the underlayment can comprise any suitable
   material that is configured to be disposed between an internal surface of the cast and the skin of
   an appendage (or other body part) within the cast.         Indeed, in some implementations, the
   underlayment comprises one or more layers of an antimicrobial material (e.g., an anti-fungal and
   anti-bacterial material). Some examples of such material include, but are not limited to, bamboo
30 fabrics, bamboo rayon, silver-coated fabric (e.g., silver-coated poly(ethylene terephthalate),
   silver-coated rayon, silver-coated polyester, iodine incorporated cloth, etc.), copper-coated

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      4
   fabric, silver/copper-coated fabric, silver/copper/nickel-coated fabric, silver/copper/tin-coated
   fabric, and/or any other material with one or more antimicrobial and/or anti-odor characteristics.
   In some implementations, however, the underlayment comprises a fabric containing bamboo.
           While the underlayment can comprise any suitable component, in some implementations,
 5 the underlayment comprises a padding layer, a compression layer, and/or a bandage (or localized
   padding) layer.     Where the underlayment comprises a padding layer, the padding layer can
   comprise any suitable material, including, without limitation, a padded sock or stockinette (e.g.,
   a sock or stockinette comprising bamboo fabric).           Where the underlayment comprises a
   compression layer, the compression layer can comprise any suitable material, including a
 0 compression sock or stockinette (e.g., a sock or stockinette comprising bamboo fabric) that is
   configured to provide any suitable amount of pressure when worn on an appendage (e.g.,
   between about 8 and about 25 mmHg).
           In some implementations in which the underlayment comprises 2, 3, 4, 5, or more layers
   of one or more materials, the underlayment functions as a multi-layer shear reduction system,
 5 allowing two or more layers of the underlayment to move independent of each other, and thereby
   allow shearing movement between the skin of a casted appendage and the cast itself to take place
   between the multiple layers of the underlayment (e.g., the padding sock and the compression
   sock), instead of at the surface of the patient's skin.
           With reference to the footplate/boot, some implementations of the described cast system
 0 (and its various components) are configured to be used (e.g., walked on) without a footplate or
   boot. In other implementations, however, one or more components of the cast are used with a
   footplate and/or a boot. With respect to the footplate, the footplate can comprise any suitable
   feature that it to support a patient's foot and/or offload weight from a wound on the sole of the
   patient's foot. Indeed, in some instances, a posterior portion of the footplate defines a recess that
25 is configured to cradle and/or correctly position the patient's heel on the footplate. In some case,
   the footplate further comprises a cam-shaped undersurface. In such cases, an eccentric portion
   of the cam-shaped undersurface of the footplate can be disposed in any suitable location,
   including, without limitation, being disposed anteriorly, posteriorly, laterally, medially, and/or in
   the middle of (or with respect to) the length of the footplate.
30         With respect to the boot, the boot can comprise any suitable characteristic or component
   that allows it to support a portion of a patient's leg. Indeed, in some implementations, the boot

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                       5
   comprises a footplate with one or more upright supports that allow the footplate to be attached to
   a patient's leg. While the upright supports can comprise any suitable component, in some
   implementations, the upright supports are configured to be attached to one or more attachment
   mechanisms, which can include, but are not limited to, one or more straps, cords, and/or other
 5 devices that are capable of securing the upright supports to a patient's leg. Additionally, in some
   implementations, the upright supports include one or more flaps (e.g., lateral flaps, medial flaps,
   posterior flaps, anterior flaps, etc.) that help distribute pressure from the upright supports across
   a portion of the patient's leg.         In such embodiments, the flaps can have any suitable
   characteristic. Indeed, in some embodiments, one or more of the internal surfaces of the flaps
 0 (e.g., the surfaces that are configured to interface with the cast) comprises a material, texturing,
   and/or other feature that allows it to maintain its position with respect to the cast (e.g., as the
   patient walks in the boot).
            While the described systems and methods may be particularly useful in the area of
   treating one or more sores, ulcerations, and/or other wounds on the sole (and other portions) of
 5 an individual's foot, those skilled in the art can appreciate that the described apparatus, systems,
   and methods can be used in a variety of different applications and in a variety of different areas
   of manufacture to treat a wide range of injuries to an individual's appendages (e.g., arms, hands,
   fingers, toes, legs, etc.), and in any suitable location. Indeed, in some implementations, the
   described antimicrobial underlayment (e.g., compression sock and/or padding sock), foot
 0 support, and/or cast (or modified versions thereof) are used in an arm cast, a hand cast, and/or in
   any other suitable cast or splint system.
            These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be set forth or will
   become more fully apparent in the description that follows.            Furthermore, the features and
   advantages of the invention may be learned by the practice of the invention or will be obvious
25 from the description, as set forth hereinafter.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            In order that the manner in the above recited and other features and advantages of the
   present invention are obtained, a more particular description of the invention will be rendered by
   reference to specific embodiments thereof, which are illustrated in the appended drawings.
30 Understanding that the drawings depict only typical embodiments of the present invention and
   are not, therefore, to be considered as limiting the scope of the invention, the present invention

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     6
   will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use of the
   accompanying drawings in which:
           Fig. 1A illustrates a perspective view of a representative embodiment of an orthopedic
   cast system;
 5         Fig. lB illustrates a cross-sectional view of a representative embodiment of the
   orthopedic cast system;
           Fig. IC illustrates a cross-sectional view of a representative embodiment of the
   orthopedic cast system;
           Fig. 2A illustrates a top plan view of a representative embodiment of a clam-shell cast;
 0         Fig. 2B illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell
   cast disposed on a patient, wherein the cast is illustrated as being semi-transparent to provide a
   non-limiting illustration of a relation between the cast and the patient's leg;
           Figs. 2C-2E each illustrates a top plan view of representative embodiments of the clam
   shell cast;
 5         Figs. 3A-3B each illustrates a top plan view of representative embodiments of the clam
   shell cast in an assembled (or a substantially-assembled) position;
           Figs. 4A-4D each illustrates a top plan view of representative embodiments of the clam
   shell cast;
           Fig. 4E illustrates a perspective view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell
 0 cast;
           Figs. 5A-5C each illustrates a side elevation view of representative embodiments of the
   clam-shell cast in the assembled position;
           Fig. 6A illustrates a top, exploded view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell
   cast;
25         Fig. 6B illustrates a top plan view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell cast;
           Fig. 6C illustrates a top, exploded view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell
   cast;
           Fig. 7A illustrates a top plan view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell cast;
           Fig. 7B illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell
30 cast disposed on the patient;

      WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      7
           Fig. 7C illustrates a top, exploded view of a representative embodiment of the clam-shell
   cast;
           Fig. 8 illustrates a side elevation view depicting a representative embodiment of the
   clam-shell cast;
 5         Fig. 9A illustrates a perspective view of a representative embodiment of a foot support;
           Fig. 9B illustrates a perspective view of the foot support according to a representative
   embodiment, wherein the foot support defines an offloading hole;
           Fig. 9C illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the foot
   support;
 0         Fig. 9D illustrates a perspective view of a representative embodiment of the foot support;
           Fig. 9E illustrates a side elevation view depicting a representative embodiment of the foot
   support;
           Fig. 9F illustrates a perspective view of a representative embodiment of the foot support;
           Fig. 9G illustrates a side cross-sectional view of the foot support in accordance with a
 5 representative embodiment;
           Fig. 9H illustrates a side elevation view of a foot disposed on a representative
   embodiment of the foot support;
           Fig. 91 illustrates a perspective view of the foot support comprising a plurality of
   perforations in accordance with a representative embodiment;
 0         Fig. 9J illustrates a top plan view depicting a foot disposed on a representative
   embodiment of the foot support;
           Figs. 9K-9L each depicts a top plan view depicting representative embodiments of the
   foot support;
           Fig. 9M illustrates a top plan view of a representative embodiment of the foot support;
25         Fig. 9N illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the foot
   support;
           Fig. 90 illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the foot
   support, wherein the foot support is configured for use as a representative embodiment of a cast
   walker;

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                       8
           Fig. 9P illustrates a perspective view of the foot support defining an offloading hole;
           Fig. 9Q illustrates a side elevation view depicting a representative embodiment of the
   foot support;
           Fig. 1OA illustrates a cross-sectional view of a representative embodiment of the
 5 orthopedic cast system;
           Fig. lOB illustrates a plan view of a representative embodiment of a compression sock;
           Fig. 1OC illustrates a plan view of a representative embodiment of a padding sock;
           Figs. 1OD-10F each illustrates a plan view of representative embodiments of the clam
   shell cast;
 0         Fig. lOG illustrates a plan view of a representative embodiment of a piece of additional
   padding;
           Figs.   11A-1iC each        illustrates various   side elevation views of representative
   embodiments of a cast underlayment comprising additional padding;
           Fig. 1ID illustrates a cross-sectional view depicting a representative embodiment of the
 5 cast underlayment;
           Fig. 12A illustrates a top plan view of a representative embodiment of a footplate;
           Figs. 12B-12D each illustrates a side elevation view of representative embodiments of
   the footplate;
           Fig. 12E illustrates a side elevation view of the footplate attached to the cast in
 0 accordance with a representative embodiment;
           Fig. 12F illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the footplate;
           Fig. 12G illustrates a side elevation view of the footplate attached to the cast in
   accordance with a representative embodiment;
           Fig. 12H illustrates a front elevation view of the footplate in accordance with some
25 embodiments of the invention;
           Fig. 121 illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of a boot;
           Fig. 12J illustrates a front elevation view of a representative embodiment of the boot;
           Fig. 12K illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the boot;
           Fig. 12L illustrates a side elevation view of a representative embodiment of the boot;
30         Figs. 12M-120 each illustrates a side elevation view of representative embodiments of a
   boot flap;

       WO 2015/006766                                                             PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      9
           Fig. 12P illustrates a top plan view of the representative embodiment of the boot;
           Fig. 12Q illustrates a side elevation view in which the footplate is attached to a shoe in
   accordance with some embodiments of the invention;
           Fig. 13 depicts a representative embodiment of a method for applying the cast system;
 5 and
           Figs. 14A-14F each illustrates various views of the representative cast system at different
   points in an application process according to some embodiments of the present invention.
                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to orthopedic casts. In particular, some implementations of
 0 the present invention relate to one or more components of a total contact cast system that can be
   used in the treatment of an appendage, such as a leg or foot. Indeed, in some implementations,
   the described cast system is configured to support a patient's foot and leg, while offloading
   weight from a wound on the patient's foot. In this regard, the term wound may be used herein to
   refer to a sore, ulcer, cut, incision, laceration, puncture, pustule, skin graft, stitched portion of
 5 skin or flesh, bruise, boil, contusion, broken bone, and/or any other suitable injury that can be
   covered, offloaded, cushioned, protected, and/or otherwise be treated with one or more
   components of the described cast system.
           In the disclosure and in the claims, the term lower leg (and variations thereof) may be
   used to refer to any portion of a patient's leg that is located distal to the patient's knee.
 0         The term hardenable casting material (and variations thereof) may be used herein to refer
   to a suitable known or novel material that is configured to be pliable and moldable when being
   applied to a patient, and that can readily be hardened to function as an orthopedic cast.
           The terms patient and individual (and variations thereof) may be used herein to refer to
   any person or other subject that can wear or use any and/or all portions of the described cast
25 system.
           The term sock (and variations thereof) may be used to herein to refer to a sock,
   stockinette, sleeve, sheath, casing, covering, tube, wrap, and/or similar object.
           The term total contact cast may be used herein to refer to an orthopedic cast having a
   shape that substantially conforms to a portion of a patient's lower leg so as to spread weight
30 from the patient's leg across a larger surface area than the typical contact areas of the sole of the
   patient's foot.

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      10
            Although the described orthopedic cast system can comprise any suitable component or
   characteristic that allows it to cover and protect a wounded portion of a person's body, Fig. 1A
   shows a representative embodiment of the orthopedic cast system 10. More specifically, Figs.
   1B-IC) show some embodiments in which the cast system 10 comprises a clam-shell cast 12, a
 5 foot support 14, and a cast underlayment 16-each of which can be used independently or in
   connection with each other and/or a footplate or a boot (such as the boot 18 shown in Fig. 1A).
   To provide a better understanding of the described orthopedic cast system and its various
   components, the following disclosure is grouped into five subheadings, namely "CLAM-SHELL
   CAST," "FOOT SUPPORT," "CAST UNDERLAYMENT," "FOOTPLATE / BOOT," and
 0 "ASSOCIATED METHODS."                 In this regard, the utilization of the subheadings is for
   convenience of the reader only, and is not to be construed as being limiting in any sense.
                                           CLAM-SHELL CAST
            With respect to the cast 12, the cast can comprise any suitable characteristic that allows it
   to extend over a first surface of a patient's appendage (e.g., lower leg), over an end of the
 5 appendage, and over a second surface of the appendage, which is substantially opposite to the
   first surface.    Indeed, because, in at least some embodiments, a first portion of the cast is
   configured to cover a first surface of an appendage and a second portion of the cast is configured
   to cover a second surface of the appendage that is substantially opposite to the first surface of the
   appendage (thus sandwiching the appendage (or another suitable body part) between two
 0 portions of the cast), the cast is sometimes called a clam-shell cast.
            While the cast 12 can comprise any suitable component that allows it to function as
   described herein, Figs. 2A-2B show some embodiments in which the cast 12 comprises an
   elongated piece of hardenable casting material 18 (or the elongated casting material 18). While
   the elongated casting material can have any suitable component, Figs. 2A-2B show that, in some
25 embodiments, the casting material 18 has a first portion 20 that is configured to extend over a
   posterior portion 22 of a patient's lower leg 24 (e.g., calf); a second portion 26 that is configured
   to extend over the patient's heel 28 and extend across a length of the sole 30 of the patient's foot
   32; and a third portion 34 that is configured to extend over an anterior end of the patient's foot
   (e.g., toes 36), run across a dorsal portion 38 of the patient's foot, and extend up over an anterior
30 portion 40 of the patient's lower leg 24 (e.g., shin).

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    11
            The clam-shell cast 12 can comprise any suitable hardenable casting material that allows
   the cast to substantially conform to the shape of an appendage (e.g., lower leg 24) during
   application of the cast, and to then harden in that shape to form an orthopedic cast.         In this
   regard, by substantially conforming to the shape of an appendage, the cast can help spread
 5 weight from a portion of the appendage (e.g., the sole 30 of a foot 32) to a larger portion of the
   appendage. In other words, in some embodiments, the cast itself allows its patient to offload
   weight from a foot wound and to spread such weight to other portions of the patient's lower leg.
            Some examples of hardenable casting materials include, but are not limited to, any
   known or novel and suitable: fiberglass casting material (e.g., fiberglass that has been
 0 impregnated with polyurethane and/or another suitable material; fiberglass that is coated with
   and/or otherwise comprises silver, copper, nickel, iodine, bamboo, and/or another suitable
   antimicrobial material and/or anti-odor material; any other suitable type of fiberglass casting;
   and/or combinations thereof), hardenable bandaging (e.g., cotton bandaging that is coated with
   plaster, polyester bandaging that is covered with plaster, any other suitable casting material that
 5 is configured to a harden after application), a thermoplastic casting material, etc.), a
   polypropylene casting material, a carbon fiber casting material, a hardenable antimicrobial
   material (e.g., plaster or another suitable hardenable material covering: a bamboo cloth, a
   bamboo rayon, a polyester made from bamboo, another fabric comprising bamboo, a silver
   coated fabric (e.g., silver-coated poly(ethylene terephthalate), silver-coated rayon, silver-coated
 0 polyester, etc.), a copper-coated fabric, a silver/copper-coated fabric, a silver/copper/nickel
   coated fabric, a silver/copper/tin-coated fabric, an iodine incorporated cloth, and/or any other
   suitable material having one or more antimicrobial and/or anti-odor features), a casting material
   (e.g., fiberglass, cotton bandaging, and/or any other suitable casting material) that is impregnated
   with and/or otherwise comprises any suitable antibiotic, bactericide, and/or other antimicrobial
25 ingredient, which may include, without limitation, penicillin, amikacin, gentamicin, kanamycin,
   netimicin, tobramycin, streptomycin,      spectinomycin, geldanamycin, herbimycin, rifaximin,
   ertapenem, doripenem, imipenem, meropenem, defadroxil, cefazolin, cefalotin, cephalexin,
   and/or any other suitable antimicrobial), casting tape, and/or any other suitable material that is
   configured to be formed around a portion of a patient's body (e.g., the patient's leg and foot) and
30 then to be hardened to form an orthopedic cast. Indeed, in some embodiments, the hardenable

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      12
   casting material comprises a known or novel fiberglass casting material that is configured to
   begin hardening once it has been exposed to air and/or water.
            Where a portion of the cast 12 (e.g., the first portion 20) is configured to extend over a
   first surface of an appendage (e.g., a calf) and another portion of the cast (e.g., the third portion
 5 34) is configured to extend over a second, substantially opposite, portion of the appendage (e.g.,
   a shin), the various portions of the cast can be attached to each other in any suitable manner that
   allows the cast to function as a total contact cast. In some embodiments, the various portions of
   the cast are attached to each other and/or an appendage (e.g., a lower leg) through the use of one
   or more wings, portions of the cast that are configured to overlap other portions of the cast,
 0 straps, belts, cords, bands, pieces of casting material, mechanical engagements, non-mechanical
   engagements, fasteners, frictional engagements, hook and loop fasteners, snaps, buckles, slides,
   ties hinges, flexible portions, and/or any other suitable connector.         By way of non-limiting
   illustration, Fig. 2B shows an embodiment in which the dotted lines 42 indicate an overlap of
   various portions of the cast 12 (i.e., a wing 44). Additionally (and jumping a little ahead in the
 5 figures), Fig. 4E shows that, in some embodiments, one or more straps 48 and 50 of the cast 12
   are configured to attach to each other and/or a portion of the cast 12 via a fastener 113 (e.g., a
   hook and loop fastener).
            In embodiments in which the cast 12 comprises a wing 44, the wing can perform any
   suitable function.    Indeed, in some instances, the wings are configured to attach at least one
 0 portion of the cast to at least one other portion of the cast and/or to cradle, and distribute pressure
   across, a portion of the patient's appendage (e.g., lower leg 24).
            The cast 12 can comprise any suitable number of wings 44 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or more)
   that extend laterally from, or past, at least one lateral edge of the elongated casting material 18.
   For instance, returning to Fig. 2A, that figure shows an embodiment in which the cast 12
25 comprises 4 wings 44 that each extend laterally (on either side of the cast) past a lateral edge 46
   of a portion of the elongated casting material 18.
            Where the cast 12 comprises one or more wings 44, the wings can be disposed in any
   suitable location that allows a portion of the wings to extend (e.g., before the cast is hardened on
   a patient) laterally past a lateral edge 46 of the elongated casting material 18. Some examples of
30 suitable locations include, but are not limited to, either side (e.g., a right and/or left side) of the
   first portion 20, second portion 26, and/or third portion 34 of the elongated casting material. By

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                        13
   way of non-limiting illustration, Figs. 2A, 2C, and 2D show some embodiments in which a
   plurality of wings 44 extend past a lateral edge 46 (on both a right-hand and a left-hand side) of
   both the first portion 20 and the third portion 34 of the elongated casting material 18.
           Where the cast 12 comprises one or more wings 44, the wings can have any suitable
 5 shape that allows them to act as described herein. Some examples of suitable wing shapes
   include, without limitation, a fletch or fin shape (e.g., as shown in Fig. 2A), a rectangular or
   quadrilateral shape (e.g., as shown in Figs. 2C and 2D), a trapezoidal shape (e.g., as shown in
   Fig. 2E), a polygonal shape, a triangular shape, an ovular shape, an irregular shape, and/or any
   other shape that allows the wing to function as intended.
 0         The wings 44 can also be any suitable length (or width) that allows them to function as
   intended. In some embodiments, one or more wings are configured to overlap at least one of
   another wing and a portion of the elongated casting material 18. For instance, Fig. 3A illustrates
   an embodiment in which the elongated casting material 18 and the wings 44 from the first
   portion 20 of the cast 12 are not necessarily configured to overlap with either the elongated
 5 casting material or another wing when the cast is worn on a lower leg 24 of a desired size. In
   contrast, Fig. 3B illustrates an embodiment in which the elongated casting material 18 and/or the
   wings 44 are configured to overlap at least one of another wing and the elongated casting
   material when worn on a lower leg 24 of a desired size. Specifically, Fig. 3B illustrates an
   embodiment in which at least one wing 44 overlaps another wing 44.
 0         Where the cast 12 comprises a strap, the cast can comprise any suitable number of straps,
   including, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, or more. Additionally, the straps can be disposed in
   any suitable location (e.g., extending from either or both lateral sides of the first portion 20, the
   second portion 26, and/or the third portion 34).          In this regard, Figs. 4A-4C show various
   embodiments in which the cast 12 comprises one or more straps 48 that are disposed at the first
25 portion 20 of the elongated casting material 18 with one or more foot straps 50 disposed at the
   second portion 26 of the elongated casting material 18. Additionally, Fig. 4C shows that, in at
   least some embodiments, the cast 12 comprises one or more straps 48 that are disposed at the
   third portion 34 of the elongated casting material 18. Furthermore, while the straps can overlap
   each other, be separated from each other, and/or have any other suitable relationship to each
30 other, Figs. 4A-4C illustrate that, in some embodiments, the straps 48 and/or 50 can be placed
   any suitable distance apart from each other that allows the cast 12 to function as intended.

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    14
           While the straps 48 can have any suitable shape (e.g., be rectangular, belt-shaped,
   triangular, rounded, polygonal, ifregular, symmetrical, asymmetrical, ribbon-like, cord-like,
   rope-like, and/or any other suitable shape), Fig. 4B shows an embodiment in which at least some
   of the straps 48 are substantially rectangular.   In this regard, while the strap ends can be any
 5 suitable shape (e.g., pointed, rounded, polygonal, irregular, triangular, trapezoidal, tapered, etc.),
   Fig. 4C shows a representative embodiment in which the strap ends 52 are substantially
   trapezoidal in shape.
           Where the cast 12 comprises one or more straps 48, the straps can be configured to
   secure the cast on an appendage (e.g., lower leg 24) and/or any other suitable body part, in any
 0 suitable manner. For instance, Fig. 5A shows an embodiment in which one or more straps 48 are
   configured to circumscribe a portion of the cast 12. Additionally, Fig. 5B shows an embodiment
   in which at least some of the straps 48 are configured to extend only partially around a part of
   the cast 12. Moreover, Fig. 5C illustrates that, in some embodiments, a plurality of the straps 48
   are configured to interdigitate with each other (e.g., by angling the straps across a portion of the
 5 elongated casting material 18). Furthermore, while the straps can run substantially perpendicular
   to a length (or a longitudinal axis) of the elongated casting material 18 (e.g., as shown Fig. 4C),
   in some embodiments, the straps are configured to run at an angle (e.g., an oblique and/or an
   obtuse angle) with respect to the length of the elongated casting material. In some embodiments,
   as the straps are configured to be wrapped perpendicularly (and/or at another suitable angle) to
 0 the length of the elongated casting material, this "cross-strapping" both secures the cast to an
   appendage and significantly increases the cast's strength.
           The straps 48 and wings 44 can be made of any suitable material that allows the cast 12
   to function as intended. Some examples of such materials include, but are not limited to, one or
   more hardenable casting materials, fabrics, materials comprising hook and loop fasteners, and/or
25 any other suitable materials. In some embodiments, however, the straps and/or wings comprise a
   hardenable casting material (e.g., a fiberglass impregnated with polyurethane and/or any other
   new or novel hardenable material configured to be used with fiberglass casting materials).
           Where the cast 12 comprises one or more straps 48, wings 52, and/or any other suitable
   connectors, such components can be attached to any suitable portion of the elongated casting
30 material 18 (e.g., the first length 20, the second length 26, the third length 34, and/or any other
   suitable portion) and in any suitable manner. In this regard, some examples of suitable methods

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    15
   for attaching one or more connectors (e.g., straps and/or wings) to the cast include, but are not
   limited to, attaching such connectors to the cast by forming the cast and connector(s) together;
   by forming the cast and connector(s) of the same piece and/or pieces of material; via one or more
   adhesives, tapes, types of stitching, mechanical fasteners, non-mechanical fasteners, frictional
 5 fasteners, etc.; by tightening the connector(s) onto the cast; by wrapping the connector(s) around
   a portion of the cast; by passing the connector(s) through one or more loops on the cast; and/or
   any other suitable method). Indeed, Fig. 6A shows that, in some embodiments, one or more
   pieces of strap material 54 are inserted between two or more layers 56 of the elongated casting
   material 18.     In contrast, Fig. 6B shows straps 48 can be attached to the elongated casting
 0 material via stitching 58 and/or one or more other suitable manners. In still another example,
   Fig. 6C shows that, in some embodiments, one or more pieces of strap material 54 are placed on
   top of and are adhered or otherwise attached to (e.g., via stitching and/or any other suitable
   method) to one or more layers 56 of the elongated casting material 18.
            The various components of the cast 12 (e.g., the elongated casting material 18, the wings
 5 44, and/or straps 48) can be any suitable size. Indeed, while the elongated casting material can
   be any suitable width, in some embodiments, it has a width (e.g., width W as shown in Fig. 6B)
   that is between about 4 cm and about 40 cm, or any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 15 cm
   and about 20 cm). Additionally, while the elongated casting material can be any suitable length
   (e.g., length L as shown in Fig. 6B), in some embodiments, it has a length between about 50 cm
 0 and about 255 cm, or any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 127 cm and about 158 cm).
   Moreover, while the straps can be any suitable width (e.g., strap width SW, as shown in Fig. 6B),
   in some embodiments, the straps have a width between about 0.5 cm and about 35 cm, or any
   sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 5 cm and about 13 cm). Furthermore, while the straps
   can be any suitable length (e.g., strap length SL, as shown in Fig. 6B), in some embodiments, the
25 straps have a length between about 20 cm and about 90 cm, or between any sub-range thereof
   (e.g., between about 35 cm and about 76 cm).
            The various components of the cast 12 can also have any suitable thickness. Indeed, in
   some embodiments, the elongated casting material 18, straps 48, and wings 44 are between about
   1 mm and about 3 cm thick. In other embodiments, the various components of the cast have a
30 thickness that falls in any suitable sub-range of the aforementioned range (e.g., between about 2
   mm and about 4 mm thick). Moreover, although, in some embodiments, the wings and/or straps

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     16
   have a thickness that is substantially equal to or greater than the thickness of the elongated
   casting material, in other embodiments, the wings and/or straps have a thickness that is thinner
   than that of the elongated casting material.     Indeed, in some embodiments, the wings and/or
   straps have a thickness that is between: about 1% and about 99%, or between any sub-range of
 5 such range (e.g., between about 20% and about 70% or between about 40% and about 60%) of
   the thickness of the elongated casting material.
            The various components of the cast 12 can comprise any suitable number of layers of
   hardenable casting materials. Indeed, in some embodiments, the various cast components (e.g.,
   the elongated casting material 18, the wings 44, and/or straps 48) comprise between about 1 and
 0 about 30 layers of hardenable casting material (e.g., fiberglass knitting). In other embodiments,
   the various components comprise between about 2 and about 16 layers of casting material. In
   still other embodiments, the various components comprise any suitable number of layers of
   casting material that fall within any of the aforementioned ranges.            For instance, some
   embodiments of the elongated casting material 18 comprise between about 12 and about 17
 5 layers of casting material (e.g., from 14 to 16 layers). Additionally, some embodiments of the
   straps comprise between about 3 and about 7 layers of casting material (e.g., from 4 to 6 layers).
            In addition to the aforementioned characteristics, the clam-shell cast 12 can be modified
   in any suitable manner that allows it to protect and/or offload weight from a portion of a
   patient's body. In one example of a suitable modification, some embodiments of the elongated
 0 casting material 18 comprise one or more features that allow it to bend relatively easily (e.g.,
   before the cast hardens) in one or more places (e.g., around a patient's heel, toes, etc.). In this
   regard, the cast can be configured to bend in any suitable manner, including, without limitation,
   by including one or more cuts, notches, perforations, scored portions, pre-creased fold lines,
   hinges, thinned portions, and/or other similar features (which may be referred to herein as a
25 folding accommodation) in a location where it is intended that the elongated casting material will
   bend to conform to an appendage. By way of illustration, Fig. 7A shows an embodiment in
   which the elongated casting material 18 includes at least one notch 60 that extends into the
   elongated casting material at a place where the elongated casting material is configured to bend
   around a patient's heel 28. In another example, Fig. 4B shows an embodiment in which the cast
30 12 comprises one or more cuts 62 that extend towards a center of the elongated casting material
   18, where the elongated casting material is configured to bend around the patient's heel and toes.

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     17
            In another example of an optional modification, some embodiments of the cast 12 define
   one or more holes (e.g., holes to provide ventilation and/or holes for medical tubing; collectively
   and individually referred to as ventilation holes or holes). In this regard, the cast can define any
   suitable number of ventilation holes, the holes can be of any suitable size, and the holes can be
 5 disposed in any suitable location. In one example, the cast comprises between 1 and 10,000
   holes, or any suitable number of holes that fall within that range (e.g., between 1 and 200).
            While the ventilation holes in the cast 12 can be any suitable size that allows air and/or
   medical tubing (e.g., for negative pressure wound therapy or another suitable purpose) to pass
   through the casting material while allowing the cast to maintain a desired rigidity, in some
 0 embodiments the holes have an inner diameter or width of between about 1mm and about 20 cm.
   In other embodiments, the cast defines one or more holes having an inner diameter or width
   between about 0.3 cm and about 3 cm. In still other embodiments, the cast defines one or more
   holes in any suitable sub-range of the aforementioned ranges (e.g., between about 0.4 cm and
   about 2 cm).
 5          While the ventilation holes can be disposed in the cast 12 in any suitable location (e.g., in
   the elongated piece of casting material 18, in one or more wings 44, in one or more straps 48,
   and/or in any other suitable location), in some embodiments, the holes are configured to be
   disposed in the cast so as to provide ventilation and/or access to medical tubing to a calf, sole of
   a foot, dorsal portion of a foot, heel, shin, and/or other portion of an appendage. By way of
 0 illustration, Figs. 7A and 7B show some embodiments in which the cast 12 comprises ventilation
   holes 64 in a calf section 66, dorsal foot section 68, and shin section 70 of the cast 12.
            In another example of a suitable modification, some embodiments of the cast 12
   comprise or are configured to comprise one or more reinforced portions. In such embodiments,
   any suitable portion of the cast can be reinforced (e.g., a toe, foot, ankle, calf, proximal portion,
25 etc.). By way of non-limiting illustration, Figs. 7A-7B show some embodiments in which an
   ankle portion 72 of the cast 12 comprises a reinforcement 74.                In any case, however,
   reinforcement of portions of the cast can be provided in any suitable manner. Indeed, in one
   example, after the cast is placed on an appendage a strap, ribbon, tie, and/or belt is placed on one
   or more portions of the cast.     In another example, after the cast is placed on an appendage,
30 casting material is wrapped around the cast in a desired location. In still another example, one or
   more reinforcements are added to the cast by placing additional layers 76 of casting material (as

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                        18
   shown in Figs. 7B-7C) in desired locations along a length of the elongated casting material 18
   (e.g., before and/or after the cast is fit to a patient).
            In another example of a suitable modification (which is not shown), instead of being
   configured to extend directly over the shin and calf of a patient (e.g., as shown in Fig. 7B), the
 5 elongated casting material 18 is configured to run down a lateral portion of a patient's lower leg,
   wrap over a portion of the patient's foot (e.g., heel 28 and/or another suitable portion), and
   extend back up over a medial portion of the patient's lower leg (or vice versa).
            In still another example of a suitable modification (which is not shown), the cast 12 is
   configured to extend over one or more other appendages of a patient (e.g., an arm, finger, torso,
 0 etc.). Indeed, in some embodiments, the cast is configured to extend over a posterior portion of a
   patient's forearm, wrap over a distal end of the patient's hand (e.g., over the distal end of the
   patient's fingers and/or with one or more of the patient's fingers extending through a
   corresponding hole or holes in the casting material), and to extend over an anterior portion of a
   patient's forearm.
 5          In yet another example of a suitable modification, in some embodiments, the elongated
   casting material 18 is formed (at least partially) into a preformed boot before being applied to a
   patient's lower leg. In some such embodiments, the elongated casting material comprises a
   hardenable casting material (e.g., a thermoplastic casting material, a plaster casting material, a
   fiberglass casting material, etc.) that can be softened (e.g., via application of heat, water, a
 0 solvent, and/or other suitable element or process) to be conformed to the shape of the patient's
   lower leg, and that can then be hardened to form an orthopedic cast.
            In even another example of a suitable modification, while some embodiments of the
   elongated casting material comprise a single continuous strip of material that extends from a first
   surface of an appendage (e.g., a calf), around an end of the appendage (e.g., a heel), and over a
25 second surface (e.g., shin) of the appendage, which is substantially opposite to the first surface,
   some embodiments of the cast comprise two or more separate pieces that are configured to be
   molded and/or hardened over opposing surfaces of an appendage (e.g., over a calf and a shin, an
   anterior and posterior portion of a forearm, etc.). By way of illustration, Fig. 8 depicts an
   embodiment in which the cast 12 comprises a splint 78 that includes a first 80 and a second
30 portion 82 of hardenable casting material that are joined by at least one strap 48. In this regard,
   while Fig. 8 shows that, in some embodiments, the first 80 and second 82 portions of the casting

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      19
   material abut each other, in some other embodiments (similar to the discussion above relating to
   Figs. 3A and 3B), the first and/or second portions of the casting material overlap each other (or
   stop short of overlapping with each other) when placed on a desired appendage.            Additionally,
   while Fig. 8 shows an embodiment in which the splint comprises a first 80 and a second 82
 5 discrete portion, the splint can comprise any suitable number of pieces, including, without
   limitation, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or more. Indeed, in some embodiments, the splint comprises a single
   piece of the elongated casting material, with one or more wings, straps, and/or portions of the
   casting material overlapping and/or configured to overlap another portion of the elongated
   casting material when it is applied to an appendage.
 0         In another example, some embodiments of the described cast 12 comprise both a
   hardenable casting material (e.g., that can be formed around a portion of an appendage, such as a
   sole of a foot) and another material (e.g., one or more plastics, vulcanized rubbers, metals,
   polymers, wood, ceramics, and/or other materials) forming part of a preformed cast. In some
   such embodiments, the various materials can be connected with each other in any suitable
 5 manner, including, without limitation, through the use of one or more straps, hinges, types of
   stitching, mechanical fasteners, adhesives, tapes, frictional engagements, and/or any other
   suitable connectors.       While such a cast can perform any suitable functions, in some
   embodiments, the preformed portions of the cast allow the cast to be placed on a patient
   relatively quickly, while the portions formed from a hardenable casting material allow the cast to
 0 be tailored to fit a patient and to thereby spread weight across a portion of the cast to offload
   weight from a wound covered by the cast.
           In another example, the cast 12 can comprise (or otherwise be used with) a cast walker; a
   walking heal; a walking pedestal; a walking shoe; one or more reinforcements (e.g., one or more
   pieces of metal, plastic, ceramic, wood, rubber, and/or other suitable material) in a foot portion
25 of the cast; an orthopedic insert; a footplate; a cast boot, slipper, shoe, sandal, slide, and/or other
   footwear comprising a footplate; and/or any other suitable structure that allows a patient to walk
   on a lower leg that is covered with the cast.
           In another example, the described cast 12 is configured to be walked on and/or otherwise
   used without the use of a boot 18, shoe, and/or footplate (as discussed below).                In such
30 embodiments, the cast can be configured in any suitable manner that allows it to be used without
   a boot, shoe, or footplate, including, without limitation, by be made with a casting material

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                       20
   and/or a sufficient amount of the casting material that prevents the cast from breaking and/or
   unduly bending during use. In other embodiments, as discussed above, the cast comprises one or
   more reinforcements in one or more portions of the cast (e.g., a foot portion, an ankle portion,
   etc.).
 5          In even another example, some embodiments of the cast 12 do not include the use of
   casting material that is spiraled along an appendage and the cast itself.              In some other
   embodiments, however, after the elongated piece of hardenable casting material 18 is applied to
   an appendage, hardenable casting material (and/or any other material) is spirally wrapped around
   a portion (if not all of) the cast.
 0          In still another example, while the cast 12 is described herein for use as a total contact
   cast (e.g., for use in the treatment of sores, ulcers, and/or any other suitable wound on a foot), the
   cast can be modified to be used for any other suitable purpose. Indeed, in some embodiments,
   the cast is configured to extend up a patient's leg, past the patient's knee. In other embodiments,
   the cast is used for protecting an appendage (e.g., leg, foot, toe, arm, hand, finger, etc.). with a
 5 broken and/or fractured bone, while the bone heals.           In yet other embodiments, the cast is
   configured to be used in trauma situations in which a cast needs to be applied to a patient
   quickly. In yet other embodiments, the cast is used for: post-surgical applications, post-fracture
   applications,     protection   of macerated     tissue,  closed  reduction,   covering   an incision,
   immobilization of an appendage, negative pressure wound therapy, and/or for any other suitable
 0 purpose.
            In yet another example of a suitable modification, some embodiments of the casting
   material of the described cast 12 (e.g., those comprising one or more antibiotics, bactericides,
   silver, copper, nickel, iodine, and/or any other suitable antimicrobial material) are used to make
   any suitable known or novel cast, splint, and/or other protective casting.           Indeed, in some
25 embodiments, the described casting material comprising one or more antimicrobial materials is
   used to form an orthopedic cast in which fiberglass, cotton, and/or another suitable material is
   wrapped around a body part and hardened to form a cast.
            In addition to the characteristics previously mentioned, the described clam-shell cast 12
   can have several features. Indeed, as some embodiments of the clam-shell cast are configured to
30 fold onto a first surface of an appendage, extend around an end of the appendage, and then fold
   back over a second surface of the appendage, which is substantially opposite to the first surface,

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     21
   some such embodiments of the described cast differ from some conventional casts in that the
   elongated casting material 18 of the current cast 12 is not spirally wound or wrapped around an
   appendage or rolled or slid on to the appendage as a sock, stockinette, or sleeve.
           In another example, as some embodiments of the described cast 12 are configured to
 5 substantially conform to the shape of an appendage, some such embodiments can be relatively
   effective at spreading pressure across the appendage and thereby offloading weight from a
   wounded portion of the appendage.
           In another example, as some embodiments of the described cast 12 have openings (e.g.,
   on the sides of the toes, along the sides of the cast, via ventilation holes 104, via openings knitted
 0 and/or otherwise formed in the casting material, etc.), the described cast can allow for better
   ventilation than some competing casts. As a result, some embodiments of the described cast can
   manage moisture better than can some conventional casts. Accordingly, some embodiments of
   the described cast can better reduce the problems associated with uncontrolled moisture (e.g.,
   maceration, soft tissue necrosis, etc.) than can some conventional casts.
 5         In yet another example, some embodiments of the described cast 12 allow a patient
   wearing the cast to heal (e.g., have a foot wound heal) while still being able to walk. In another
   example, by wearing some embodiments of the described cast, a patient is able to keep undue
   pressure off a foot wound, even if the patient is not purposefully trying to do so. In even another
   example, some embodiments of the described cast are configured to eliminate and/or reduce the
 0 propulsive phase a patient's gate and/or shorten the patient's stride length, thus reducing the
   potentially damaging forces that can be placed on a wound as the patient walks.
           In still another example (mentioned briefly above), some embodiments of the described
   cast 12 do not require that the cast (like some conventional total contact casts) be spirally wound
   around an appendage, or slid or rolled over the appendage like a sleeve, sock, or stockinette. As
25 a result, some such embodiments of the described cast may be applied more quickly than some
   conventional total contact casts. Moreover, as some embodiments of the described cast can be
   applied to an appendage while the patient is sitting up or in another comfortable position, some
   embodiments of the cast can be applied more conveniently than some conventional total contact
   casts that require a patient to be moved onto the patient's belly or into another uncomfortable
30 position.

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     22
                                             FOOT SUPPORT
           With respect to the foot support 14, the foot support comprises an orthotic that can
   comprise any suitable characteristic or component that allows it to offload at least some weight
   from a foot wound and/or provide padding to a portion of a foot 32. While the foot support can
 5 be disposed in any suitable location, in some embodiments, the foot support is configured to be
   disposed between a patient's foot and an interior surface of a cast (e.g., the cast 12 and/or any
   other suitable known or novel cast).
           The foot support 14 can be any suitable shape, including, but not limited to, being square,
   rectangular, polygonal, symmetrical, irregular, circular, elliptical, foot shaped, shaped to contour
 0 to a portion of a foot, the shape of a portion of a foot, and/or any other suitable shape that allows
   it to perform its intended function.     In some embodiments, however, Fig. 9A shows the foot
   support 14 comprises a quadrilateral shape.       In contrast, Fig. 9B shows that, in some other
   embodiments, the foot support 14 comprises an elongated quadrilateral shape.
           While the edges of the foot support 14 can have any suitable shape (e.g., terminating at a
 5 right angle, being rounded, being chamfered, tapering, being feathered, etc.), Fig. 9B shows an
   embodiment in which the at least some of the foot support's edges 83 end substantially at right
   angles. Additionally, Figs. 9A and 9C show some embodiments in which the edges 83 of the
   foot support 14 are at least partially beveled. In such embodiments, the foot support's edges can
   be beveled at any suitable angle (e.g., at an angle 0, including, without limitation, at an angle
 0 between about 10 and about 890, or within any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 500 and
   about 700, as shown in Fig. 9C).
           The foot support 14 can comprise any suitable material that allows it to provide padding
   to and/or to otherwise support a portion of a patient's foot. In this regard, the foot support can
   comprise any suitable type of plastic, polymer, metal, ceramic, wood, synthetic material, natural
25 material, padding, foam, anti-bacterial material (e.g., one or more bamboo materials, bamboo
   rayons, silver-coated poly(ethylene terephthalate), silver-coated rayon, silver-coated polyester,
   other    silver-coated    materials,  iodine-incorporated    materials,   copper-coated    materials,
   silver/copper-coated materials, silver/copper/nickel-coated materials, silver/copper/tin-coated
   materials, etc.), and/or other antimicrobial material (e.g., as discussed above) and other suitable
30 material that allows it to perform its intended purpose.         Where the foot support comprises
   padding, the foot support can comprise virtually any suitable type of padding, including, without

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     23
   limitation, closed cell padding, open cell padding, polymer padding (e.g., polypropylene,
   polyethylene, polyurethane, etc.), p-cell foam, x-static foam, felted foam, foam, polyurethane
   foam, silicon, gel, cotton, vinyl, polyvinyl chloride, ethylene vinyl acetate, cork, combinations
   thereof, and any other suitable material.     Indeed, in some embodiments, the padding material
 5 comprises p-cell foam and/or crepe foam, wherein at least one of the foams is optionally covered
   with felt and/or another suitable material.
            Although some embodiments of the foot support 14 comprise a single type or layer of
   padding material, in other embodiments, the foot support comprises a plurality of padding
   materials (e.g., 2, 3, 4, 5, or more). In such embodiments, the padding materials can be disposed
 0 in any suitable manner (including, without limitation, by having some of the padding materials
   be localized to particular locations (e.g., pressure points) on a foot and/or having the various
   padding materials be disposed in layers).         In this regard, Figs. 9C and 9D show some
   embodiments in which the foot support 14 comprises a first padding layer 84. In contrast, Figs.
   9E-9G show some embodiments in which the foot support 14 comprises the first padding layer
 5 84 and a second padding layer 86, wherein both layers extend across a significant portion, if not
   all, of the foot support. Figs. 9F and 9G, however, show some embodiments in which the foot
   support 14 comprises the first padding layer 84 (e.g., a crepe padding) with one or more
   additional layers (e.g., of a p-cell foam 88 and/or another foam 90), localized around an
   offloading hole or recess 92 (hereinafter referred to as a hole or an offloading hole).
 0          Where the foot support 14 comprises multiple layers of padding materials, the various
   padding layers can have any suitable characteristic.      For instance, where the foot support 14
   comprises multiple layers of padding, the various layers can be joined in any suitable manner,
   including, without limitation, by being integrally formed together, via an adhesive, with a tape,
   through a hook and loop fastener, via heat welding, through stitching, and/or any other suitable
25 manner.
            While various portions of the foot support 14 can be malleable, semi-malleable, and/or
   non-malleable, in some embodiments, the foot support is malleable or pliable.              In such
   embodiments, the foot support (or portions thereof) can have any suitable durometer value. For
   instance, some embodiments of the foot support comprise a padding layer having a durometer
30 value between about 5 and about 120, or a durometer value that falls within any suitable sub-

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     24
   range thereof (e.g., a durometer value between about 30 and about 60), depending on the
   particular application of the foot support.
            In some optional embodiments in which the foot support 14 comprises multiple layers of
   padding, the various padding layers each comprise a padding that has a different durometer
 5 value. Indeed, while, in some embodiments, the first padding layer 84 is softer than the second
   padding layer 86, in some preferred embodiments, the second padding layer is softer than the
   first padding layer.    In this regard, the difference between the durometer value of the first
   padding layer and the second padding layer can be any suitable amount, including, without
   limitation, a value that is less than about 60, or any suitable sub-range thereof (e.g., a durometer
 0 value that is less than about 30). For instance, some embodiments of the foot support comprise a
   first padding layer having a durometer value of about 55  10 and a second padding layer having
   a durometer value of about 30  10. In some such embodiments, the first layer can provide
   needed support, while the second layer provides padding (e.g., for blood flow) and a desired
   level of comfort. Additionally, in some embodiments in which the foot support 14 comprises an
 5 offloading foot support (or a foot support defining an offloading hole 92), the durometer value(s)
   of the padding layer and/or padding layers are configured to help to offload weight/pressure from
   a foot wound while distributing such weight/or to other portions of a patient's foot.
            In some embodiments, the foot support 14 comprises a toe guard that is configured to
   cover, cushion, and/or otherwise protect one or more of a patient's toes from being rubbed
 0 against a portion of the cast system 10 (e.g., the cast 12) and becoming macerated or otherwise
   injured. While the toe guard can comprise any suitable shape that allows it to fulfill its intended
   purpose, in some embodiments, it comprises a rounded end (e.g., an end having a J-shaped
   appearance, when viewed from its side), a box end (e.g., an end with a bottom surface, an end
   surface that runs substantially orthogonally to the bottom surface, and a top surface that runs
25 substantially orthogonally to the end surface), a triangular end, a flat end (e.g., an end having a
   substantially flat surface that runs substantially orthogonally to (or at another suitable angle with
   respect to) a bottom surface of the foot support, giving the foot support an L-shaped appearance),
   and/or any other suitable shape that allows the toe guard to extend under one or more of a
   patient's toes, over (and/or in front of) a distal end of the toes, and/or over a dorsal portion of
30 one or more of the toes. Indeed, Figs. 9G-9H show some embodiments in which the toe guard
   94 comprises a substantially J-shaped end 96.

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     25
            In some embodiments, the shape of the toe guard 94 is substantially resilient, such that
   the toe guard's shape (e.g., a J-shaped appearance) is retained when the toe guard is at rest, or
   (said differently) when the shape of the toe guard is not being retained by an external force or
   object, such as a sock, a cast, underlayment, tape, bands, straps, ties, etc.). In other words, in
 5 some embodiments, the toe guard is manufactured to maintain its shape, even when the toe guard
   is separated from all other components of the described casting system 10.
            While the toe guard 94 can be formed in any suitable manner that allows it to fulfill its
   intended purpose and to resiliently retain its shape, in some embodiments, the toe guard's shape
   (e.g., a resilient J shape, L-shape, etc.) is formed in the foot support via a heating process (e.g.,
 0 forming the toe guard's shape with: a hot curling iron, pressing the foot support into a desired
   shape under the application of heat, etc.), a molding process, an extrusion process, and/or any
   other suitable process.
            In some embodiments, the shape of the toe guard 94 is rigid or semi-rigid.          In such
   embodiments, the toe guard can for formed with any suitable material (e.g., one or more rigid or
 5 semi-rigid plastics, polymers, metals, ceramics, rubbers, plastics, synthetic materials, woods,
   supports, braces, etc.) and in any suitable manner (e.g., via molding, extrusion, bending, and/or
   any other suitable process).
            In some embodiments, the foot support 14 comprises an offloading hole 92 (e.g., as
   shown in Fig. 9F) and/or is otherwise configured to be easily customizable.         Indeed, in some
 0 embodiments, the foot support is formed with one or more offloading holes.                  In other
   embodiments, however, the foot support is configured such that a portion of the foot support can
   be removed to form an offloading hole or depression in a location corresponding to a wound on
   the sole 30 of a patient's foot.     In this manner, the foot support can reduce the amount of
   pressure that is applied to a foot wound.
25          Where the foot support 14 is easily customizable, portions of the foot support can be
   removed in any suitable manner, including, without limitation, by removing portions of the foot
   support with scissors, a knife, a punch, and/or another cutting instrument.                In some
   embodiments, however, the foot support comprises one or more perforated portions that are
   easily torn, cut, and/or otherwise separated to release one or more portions of the foot support.
30 While such perforations can be disposed in any suitable location and in any suitable pattern, Fig.
   91 shows an embodiment in which a sole portion 98 of the foot support 14 comprises a

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      26
   perforated pattern or grid 100 that allows select portions of the foot support to be removed to
   offset weight from (and to reduce pressure on) a foot wound. While Fig. 91 shows that some
   embodiments of the perforated grid 100 comprise a pattern of perforations in which at least two
   perforations run substantially perpendicular to each other, in other embodiments, the perforations
 5 run in any other suitable manner (e.g., in one or more circular or elliptical patterns, in one or
   more polygonal patterns, at any angle with respect to each other, and/or otherwise). By way of
   non-limiting illustration, Fig. 9P shows an embodiment in which the foot support 14 defines an
   octagonal offloading hole 92.
           The foot support 14 can be any suitable size that allows it support a portion of a patient's
 0 foot 32 and/or to fit in a cast (e.g., cast 12 and/or any other suitable known or novel cast), shoe,
   and/or boot. For instance, while the foot support can be sold at any suitable length, in some
   embodiments, the foot support has an initial length (IL, as shown in Fig. 9J) between about 8 cm
   and about 40 cm, or that falls within any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 25 cm and about
   35 cm). Additionally, while the foot support can be produced to have any suitable initial width
 5 (IW), in some embodiments, the foot support has an initial width between about 2.5 cm and
   about 25 cm, or within any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 10 cm and about 15 cm).
   Furthermore, while the toe guard 94 can extend posteriorly any suitable amount from an anterior
   end of the foot support, in some embodiments, the toe guard has a length (TGL) between about 0
   cm and about 25 cm, or within any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 2.5 cm and about 8
 0 cm). Indeed, as shown in Fig. 9H, in some embodiments, the foot support 14 is of a sufficient
   length to allow a patient's toe to be spaced somewhat away from (e.g., posterior to) the toe guard
   94. In this manner, the toe guard can further reduce and/or prevent maceration of a patient's
   toes, as tends to occur in some conventional total contact casts. Moreover, the foot support can
   be any suitable thickness (T, as shown in Fig. 9H).        Indeed, in some embodiments, the foot
25 support has a thickness between about 0.1 cm and about 2.5 cm, or that falls within any sub
   range thereof (e.g., between 0.3 cm and 1.5 cm).
           In some embodiments, the foot support 14 is further configured such that its size (e.g.,
   length and/or width) is easily customizable for use with patients having varying foot sizes.
   While the foot support can be configured to be resized (and thereby become a custom offloading
30 orthotic) in any suitable manner (e.g., by comprising a material that is cut relatively easily by a
   cutting instrument), in some embodiments, the foot support comprises perforations along one or

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     27
   more of its edges (e.g., its lateral edges and posterior edge). By way of illustration, Figs. 9K-9L
   show some embodiments in which the foot support 14 comprises a plurality of perforations 102
   along its edges to allow the length (e.g., IL) and/or width (e.g., IW) of the foot support to be
   reduced by cutting or tearing the foot support at such perforations.      In this regard, while Figs.
 5 9K-9L shows some embodiments in which the perforations 102 comprise relatively straight
   lines, in some other embodiments, the perforations have any other suitable shape, including a
   shape that allows the foot support 14 to be easily modified to substantially track at least a portion
   of a patient's foot print.
            In addition to the aforementioned characteristics, the foot support 14 can be modified in
 0 any suitable manner that allows it to offload weight from a foot wound and/or provide padding to
   a portion of a foot 32. In one example of a suitable modification, the shape of the toe guard 94 is
   modified to help the toe guard conform to one or more of a patient's toes. While the toe guard
   can be modified any suitable manner, Fig. 9K shows an embodiment in which, from a top plan
   view, the toe guard 94 is configured to slope from a patient's big toe (not shown in Fig. 9K)
 5 towards the patient's smallest toe (not shown in Fig. 9K).           Similarly, Fig. 9L shows an
   embodiment in which, from a top plan view, the toe guard 94 is configured to curve from right to
   left, and vice versa.
            In another example of a suitable modification, in some embodiments, the foot support 14
   defines one or more ventilation holes. While these holes can be defined in any suitable portion
 0 of the foot support, Figs. 9K-9L show some embodiments in which the foot support 14 defines
   ventilation holes 104 in the support's toe guard 94 and/or sole portion 98.
            In another example, although some embodiments of the foot support 14 are completely
   open around the support's lateral, medial, and/or posterior edges, in some other embodiments,
   the foot support includes one or more sidewalls. In this regard, such sidewalls can be disposed
25 in any suitable location on the foot support (e.g., so as to extend around any suitable length of a
   lateral edge, a medial edge, and/or a posterior edge of the foot support as well as to extend up to
   any suitable height on a patient's foot and/or leg. While such sidewalls can perform any suitable
   function, in some embodiments, one or more sidewalls are used to provide additional protection
   and/or wound-pressure offloading to a patient's foot and/or leg.              Additionally, in some
30 embodiments, the sidewalls and/or toe guard 94 optionally define one or more offloading holes
   92 that are placed (e.g., via cutting, tearing, separating perforated lines, etc.) in the foot support

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    28
   at a position corresponding to one or more wounds on a patient's foot or leg-thus allowing
   weight/pressure to be offloaded from such wounds and distributed to other portions of the
   patient's lower leg.   In any case, while the optional sidewalls can be formed in any suitable
   manner, Figs. 9M-9N show some embodiments in which the sidewalls 106 are formed with (or
 5 are otherwise attached to) the foot support 14, such that the sidewalls are resiliently (and/or
   rigidly or semi-rigidly) maintained in position at one or both sides of the toe guard 94.
           In another example, the foot support 14 comprise or is otherwise used with a die, carbon
   paper, and/or other pressure sensitive material that allows a user (e.g., a medical practitioner) to
   readily identify the position of a wound when a foot 32 is placed on the foot support. In this
 0 manner, the position of an offloading hole 92 in the foot support can readily be determined.
           In another example, the foot support 14 and/or toe guard 94 are optionally modified to
   comprise one or more pads, walls, and/or other separators that are configured to extend (e.g.,
   vertically or otherwise) between two or more of a patient's toes. In this example, such separators
   can perform any suitable function, including, without limitation, helping with ventilation,
 5 cushioning the toes, preventing one toe from rubbing against another, and/or otherwise
   protecting the patient's toes. Indeed, in some embodiments, such separators further comprise
   and/or are configured to be modified to comprise one or more offloading holes 92 that can be
   positioned to offload weight from a wound between a patient's toes.
           In another example, one or more portions of the foot support 14 comprise an adhesive,
 0 mechanical fastener, frictional fastener, and/or other fastening mechanism that is configured to
   attach the foot support to any suitable object (e.g., a footplate, an internal surface of a cast (e.g.,
   the described cast 12 and/or any other suitable cast), an underlayment 16 component (e.g., an
   internal and/or external surface of a constriction sock 110, a padding sock 112, a piece of
   localized padding 114, etc.), and/or any other suitable component. Indeed, in some embodiments,
25 an external surface of the foot support comprises an adhesive that is configured to attach the foot
   support to a cast. In some other embodiments, an internal surface of the foot support comprises
   an adhesive that is configured to attach the foot support to a portion of the underlayment 16 (e.g.,
   a sock).
           In yet another example (previously discussed), some embodiments of the foot support 14
30 comprise an antimicrobial material (e.g., bamboo fabric, copper-coated fabric, silver-coated
   fabric, an antibiotic impregnated material, etc.).       While this antimicrobial material can be

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                       29
   disposed in any suitable location, in some embodiments, it is used as a covering on all or a
   portion of the foot support. By way of non-limiting illustration, Fig. 9G shows an embodiment
   in which the foot support 14 comprises an antimicrobial material 108, adjacent to the offloading
   hole 92.
 5          In still another example, while the described foot support 14 is described herein for use
   with a total contact cast (e.g., cast 12), the foot support can be modified to be used with any
   suitable cast, including, without limitation, a known or novel cast for a broken leg, ankle, foot, or
   toe, a hand cast, an arm cast, etc. By way of non-limiting illustration (and skipping a little ahead
   in the figures), Fig. 1ID shows that, in some embodiments, the foot support 14 is useable in
 0 virtually any known or novel casting system 300, including, without limitation, in a conventional
   cast 302 that is spirally wrapped around a body part.
            In even another example, while some embodiments of the foot support 14 comprise a
   substantially flat portion on a which a patient's foot is to be placed, in some other embodiments,
   the at least a portion of the foot support is formed to contour or substantially contour to a portion
 5 (e.g., a sole) of a patient's foot. In this regard, the foot support can be made in different generic
   sizes that allow it to be used for a variety of patients and/or the foot support can be custom fit for
   individual patients. In this regard, the contour of the foot support can be formed in any suitable
   manner, including, without limitation, through the use of heat, a press, a mold, and/or any other
   suitable method.
 0          As yet another example of a suitable modification, in some embodiments, the foot
   support 14 comprises a rigid orthotic which optionally has one or more layers of padding
   disposed thereon.      While such a foot support can perform any suitable function, including
   (without limitation) providing support to a foot in a cast (e.g., cast 12), protecting a portion of a
   patient's foot (e.g., toes) from impacts, etc., in some embodiments, the foot support comprises a
25 cast walker that allows a patient to walk on the cast, without the use of a separate boot and/or
   footplate.
            Where the foot support 14 comprises a cast walker, the foot support can comprise any
   suitable characteristic. By way of non-limiting illustration (and jumping back in the figures to
   Fig. 90), Fig. 90 shows a representative embodiment in which the foot support 14 comprises a
30 cast walker 95 having a rigid support 97; a rigid, semi-rigid, and/or resilient toe guard 94; and
   one or more optional layers of padding 99 (e.g., which, in some embodiments, optionally define

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      30
   an offloading hole 92). Additionally, while an undersurface of the cast walker can have any
   suitable characteristic (e.g., be substantially flat, have one or more pedestals, contact surfaces,
   and/or other treads located proximally, anteriorly, in a middle of the foot support, and/or across
   any other suitable portion of the undersurface), Fig. 90 shows that, in some embodiments, the
 5 cast walker 95 comprises one or more contact surfaces 101 or treads that are somewhat centrally
   located on the walker.
            Where the foot support 14 comprises a cast walker 95, the cast walker can comprise any
   suitable material. In this regard, some examples of suitable materials include, but are not limited
   to, one or more rubbers, polymers, plastics, woods, metals, ceramics, synthetic materials, natural
 0 material, and/or any other suitable material. In some embodiments, however, the cast walker
   comprises rubber.
            In even another example of a suitable modification, in some embodiments, the foot
   support 14 is attached to, is disposed within, is connected to, and/or otherwise comprises a
   portion of any suitable type of sock and/or any other suitable object. Accordingly, in some such
 5 embodiments, the sock and foot support can be slid onto a foot and/or another suitable body part
   (e.g., a hand, arm, leg, etc.) to provide the body part with padding and/or wound offloading.
            In still another example of a suitable modification, an edge of the toe guard 94 that is
   configured to terminate over a dorsal portion of a patient's toe or foot) can have any suitable
   shape, including, without limitation, be substantially squared (e.g., as shown in Fig. 90, rounded,
 0 tapered, and/or otherwise shaped. In some embodiments, however, such an edge is tapered.
   While this edge can be tapered in any suitable manner, Fig. 9Q shows that, in some
   embodiments, a portion of the toe guard 94 is thinned, beveled, tapered, and/or otherwise
   reduced in thickness to help reduce any pressure that can be applied to dorsal side of a patient's
   toes and/or foot by such embodiments of the foot support 14.
25          In addition to the characteristics previously mentioned, the described foot support 14 can
   have one or more other features. Indeed, in some embodiments, the foot support is configured to
   provide a patient with an offloading hole 92 that is specifically placed to offload weight from a
   wound on the patient's foot 32. As a result, some such embodiments can provide a patient with
   an individualized foot support that allows a wound on the patient's foot to heal faster that it may
30 with some conventional casts.

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      31
            As another example, the described toe guard 94 can protect a patient's toes better from
   friction with a cast (e.g., the cast 12 and/or any other suitable cast) or other damage and with less
   taping, or other external forces, than may some conventional casts.               As a result, some
   embodiments of the described foot support can help reduce healing time, while limiting the
 5 amount of additional damage that is caused to a patient's toes while the patient's foot is in a cast.
            In still another example, while the foot support 14 is described herein for use with a cast
   (e.g., the described cast 12 and/or any other suitable cast), the foot support can be used in any
   other suitable manner, including, without limitation, by being used alone and/or with a cast boot,
   a shoe, a bandage, and/or any other suitable element.
 0                                       CAST UNDERLAYMENT
            With respect to the cast underlayment 16, the underlayment can comprise any suitable
   material or object that is configured to be disposed between an internal surface of a cast (e.g., the
   cast 12 and/or any other known or novel cast and/or splint) and the skin of an appendage within
   the cast.    Indeed, in some embodiments, the underlayment comprises one or more articles
 5 configured to provide compression to an appendage within the cast, pieces of padding, negative
   pressure apparatus (e.g., negative pressure socks, tubing , etc.), and/or other items that can be
   disposed between the cast and a patient's skin. By way of non-limiting illustration, Fig. 10A
   illustrates an embodiment in which the cast underlayment 16 comprises a compression sock 110
   (or other suitable compression layer), a padding sock 112 (or other suitable padding layer), and
 0 localized padding 114.        In this regard, in some embodiments in which the underlayment
   comprises two or more components (or layers) the various components are configured to transfer
   shearing forces or movements from between a cast (e.g., the described cast 12 and/or any other
   suitable cast or splint) and the skin covered by the cast to between the two or more components
   of the underlayment.        In such embodiments, the described underlayment can reduce the
25 maceration and other damage that can be caused by some conventional cast systems that chafe
   against the skin they cover.
            The various components (or layers) of the underlayment 16 (e.g., the compression sock
   110, padding sock 112, localized padding 114, etc.) can be made of any suitable materials that
   allow the components to function as intended. Some non-limiting examples of such materials
30 include cotton, cellulosic fibers, gauze, polyurethane foam, neoprene, polyester, rayon, and/or
   one or more antimicrobial materials.

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     32
            Where one or more components (or layers) of the underlayment 16 comprise an
   antimicrobial material (e.g., an anti-fungal, an anti-bacterial material, a bactericide, and/or any
   other suitable antimicrobial material), the underlayment can comprise any suitable antimicrobial
   material. Some examples of such materials include, but are not limited to, one or more bamboo
 5 fabrics and bamboo materials (e.g., bamboo cloth, bamboo rayon, polyester made from bamboo,
   and/or any other suitable fabric and/or material comprising bamboo), silver-coated materials
   (e.g., silver-coated poly(ethylene terephthalate), silver-coated rayon, silver-coated polyester,
   etc.),  copper-coated     materials,  silver/copper-coated  materials,  silver/copper/nickel-coated
   materials, silver/copper/tin-coated materials, iodine incorporated materials, bactericide, and/or
 0 any other suitable antimicrobial material (e.g., as discussed above), including, without limitation,
   those antimicrobial materials having one or more anti-odor characteristics.                In some
   implementations, however, the underlayment comprises a bamboo-containing fabric.             In this
   regard, each underlayment component can comprise any suitable amount of bamboo (e.g.,
   between about 0.1% and about 100%, or any sub-range thereof, including, without, limitation,
 5 between about 75% and about 99%).
            In some embodiments (as mentioned above), the underlayment 16 comprises one or more
   articles or layers that are configured to provide compression to an appendage within a cast (e.g.,
   the described cast 12). In such embodiments, the underlayment can comprise any suitable article
   that is configured to provide pressure to an appendage within the cast.         In some instances,
 0 however, this compression article comprises a compression sock, stockinette, tube, and/or sleeve
   (collectively and individually a compression sock 110; a representative embodiment of which is
   shown in Fig. lOB).
            While the compression sock 110 can provide any suitable amount of pressure to an
   appendage (e.g., lower leg 24), in some embodiments, the compression sock is configured to
25 provide compression to an appendage at any suitable pressure level. In this regard, in some
   embodiments, the compression sock is configured to provide an appendage with between about 5
   mmHG and about 30 mmHG of pressure, or any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 10
   mmHG and about 20 mmHg, or even between about 10 and 15 mmHG). Moreover, although in
   some embodiments, the compression sock comprises a static compression sock that is configured
30 to provide a substantially constant compression across the appendage to which it is applied, in

       WO 2015/006766                                                             PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      33
   other embodiments, the compression sock comprises a sequential compression sock that is
   configured to provide greater compression at a distal end of the sock (e.g., by a patient's toes).
            In some embodiments (as mentioned above), the underlayment 16 comprises one or
   padding layers or socks 112 (see e.g., Fig. 1OC) that are configured to provide padding to an
 5 appendage within the cast (e.g., cast 12). In such embodiments, the padding sock can comprise
   any suitable article (e.g., sock, stockinette, sleeve, tube, sheet, etc.) that is configured to provide
   padding around a portion of an appendage within the cast (e.g., cast 12). Moreover, while the
   padding sock can provide any suitable amount of padding, in some embodiments, the sock is
   configured to be between about 1 mm and about 3 cm thick (e.g., before being applied to an
 0 appendage), or to have a thickness that falls in any sub-range thereof (e.g., between about 1.5 cm
   and about 2 cm). Additionally, although in some embodiments, the cast (e.g., cast 12 and/or
   another suitable cast) is configured such that the padding sock is not bound to an internal surface
   of the cast, in other embodiments, a portion (if not all) of the padding sock becomes bound to the
   cast, either before or after the cast hardens.
 5          While various components of the underlayment 16 can be made in any suitable manner
   (e.g., via spinning, knitting, crocheting, weaving, sewing, extruding, etc.), in some embodiments,
   one or more components (e.g., the compression sock 110 and/or padding sock 112) are knitted
   and/or woven.      Although this knitting and/or weaving process can be accomplished in any
   suitable known or novel manner, in some embodiments, this process is done such that the
 0 various components of the underlayment (e.g., the compression sock and padding sock)
   comprise a weave that is configured to be non-fraying (or to not significantly fray or unravel
   when such components are punctured or cut (e.g., at least when such components are not cut
   completely around their perimeter).        As a result, in some such embodiments, the various
   components can be cut or punctured (e.g., to allow medical tubing, such as a vacuum tube, a
25 drain tube, etc., to pass through one or more components) without causing significant damage to
   such components.
            With respect to the localized padding 114, the underlayment 16 can optionally comprise
   any suitable amount of additional padding in any suitable location (e.g., over a patient's toes,
   dorsal portion of the patient's foot, shin, calf, ankle, a lateral side of a proximal portion of a
30 patient's fibula, an anterior portion of a proximal portion of a patient's tibia, and/or any other
   body part in the cast (e.g., cast 12)) that could benefit from additional padding. While the

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      34
   additional padding can have any suitable relation with respect to the cast and one or more
   components of the underlayment, in some embodiments, the localized padding is fixed to an
   internal surface of the cast (e.g., via stitching, an adhesive, tape, and/or any other suitable
   mechanism). In this regard, Figs. 1OD and 1OE respectively illustrate embodiments in which an
 5 optional shin pad 116 and a full length pad 118 are attached to an internal surface 120 of the cast
   12. In contrast, Figs. 1OF and lOG shows an embodiment in which an optional shin pad 116 is
   configured to be added to the cast 12, as desired. Moreover, Figs. 1IA-IC show that, in some
   embodiments, the localized padding 114 is attached to another portion of the underlayment (e.g.,
   the compression sock 110 and/or the padding sock 112). While such padding can be disposed in
 0 any suitable location, Figs. 11 A-1 IC shows that, in some embodiments, the additional padding
   114 as configured to be placed over an ankle portion 72, a shin portion 70, and lateral leg portion
   124 (e.g., over a proximal, lateral portion of a fibula and/or a tibia of a patient).
           In addition to the aforementioned characteristics, the cast underlayment 16 can be
   modified in any suitable manner that allows it to pad, provide shear reduction to, ventilate,
 5 and/or otherwise protect an appendage within a cast (e.g., cast 12). In one example of a suitable
   modification, the various components of the underlayment 16 (e.g., the compression sock 110,
   padding sock 112, and/or localized padding 114) can be used alone (e.g., with any combination
   of each other), with any suitable combination of the elements of the described cast system 10,
   and/or with any other suitable cast, splint, and/or bandage system.                   Indeed, in some
 0 embodiments, one or more portions of the underlayment (e.g., a compression sock, padding
   sock, and/or localized padding comprising an antimicrobial material) is used as underlayment in
   a known or novel: upper extremity cast (e.g., a short arm cast, a long arm cast, a finger spica, a
   thumb spica, etc.), lower extremity cast (e.g., a long leg cast, short leg cast, etc.), cylinder cast,
   body cast, spica, splint, and combinations thereof. In one non-limiting example, a compression
25 sock and a padding sock comprising a bamboo material (and/or another antimicrobial material)
   are used as underlayment in an arm cast. Similarly, in one non-limiting illustration, Fig. 1 ID
   shows an embodiment in which one or more components of the underlayment 16 (e.g., the
   compression sock 110, the padding sock 112, and the localized padding 114) are useable in
   virtually any known or novel casting system 300, including, without limitation, in a conventional
30 cast 302 that is spirally wrapped around a body part.

       WO 2015/006766                                                              PCT/US2014/046510
                                                       35
            In another example, in some embodiments, the first underlayment component (e.g., the
   compression sock 110) has a higher compression than the second underlayment (e.g., the
   padding sock 112). In some such embodiments, such a configuration allows for an increased
   probability that shear forces will be transferred to the interaction between the first underlayment
 5 component and the second underlayment component (and/or another underlayment component)
   instead of at an interface between the skin and the first underlayment component.
            In another example of a modification, any suitable portion of the underlayment 16 (e.g.,
   the compression sock 110, padding sock 112, and/or localized padding 114) can be removed
   from the cast system 10 and/or any other component can be added to the system. Indeed, while
 0 the underlayment can comprise two layers of material (e.g., a compression and padding sock), in
   some embodiments, the underlayment comprises 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more layers. In some such
   embodiments, the additional layers (e.g., one or more socks, stockinettes, sleeves, sheets, etc.)
   can perform any suitable purpose, including allowing shearing forces to take place between the
   various layers, as opposed to taking place against a patient's skin as the cast moves with respect
 5 to such skin.
            In still another example, in some embodiments, one or more components of the
   underlayment 16 comprise one or more holes that are preformed (e.g., woven into, knitted into,
   cut into and then stitched to prevent unraveling, and/or otherwise formed) in the various
   underlayment components.         Accordingly, in some such embodiments, the various components
 0 can be used for ventilation and/or with medical tubing, without requiring that such components
   be punctured, cut, or torn to accommodate such ventilation and/or tubing.
            In yet another example of a suitable modification, the various components of the
   underlayment 16 can be placed on an appendage (e.g., lower leg 24) in any suitable order. For
   instance, while Fig. 10A depicts an embodiment in which the compression sock 110 is disposed
25 closest to the patient's lower leg 24 (not shown in Fig. 10A), with the padding sock 112 disposed
   outside the compression sock 110, and with shin padding 116 and the foot support 14 disposed
   outside of the padding sock, the order of such components can be reorganized in any suitable
   manner. Indeed, in some instances, the foot support is disposed within the compression sock.
            In another example, while, in some embodiments, each element of the underlayment 16
30 (e.g., the compression sock 110, padding sock 112, and localized padding 114) is used together
   (e.g., in a cast, splint, shoe, prosthetic, ski boot, rollerblade/roller-skate boot, in a post-operation

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    36
   setting, and/or other suitable environment), in some other embodiments, the various components
   of the underlayment are used individually and/or in any other suitable combination (e.g., to
   reduce shear damage that can be caused to a person's skin when such skin is in close proximity
   to another object, such as an interior of a prosthetic, a hiking boot, a ski boot, etc.). By way of
 5 non-limiting illustration (and returning back to Fig. IC, that figure shows an embodiment in
   which the optional localized padding 114 is omitted and the compression sock 110 and the
   padding sock 112 are used in the described cast 12 (e.g., to provide for shear reduction between a
   patient's skin (not shown in Fig. IC) and an internal surface of the cast 12).
            In still another example, while some embodiments of the underlayment 16 can move
 0 completely independently of the cast 12 (or another suitable cast, splint, and/or bandage), in
   some other embodiments, one or more components of the underlayment are at least partially
   attached to the cast when the cast and underlayment are disposed on an appendage. In these
   latter embodiments, any suitable portion of the underlayment (e.g., the compression sock 110,
   the padding sock 112, and/or the localized padding 114) can be attached to the cast, in any
 5 suitable manner (e.g., via one or more adhesives, pieces of tape, tackifiers/hardening materials in
   the casting material, mechanical attachments, frictional attachments, etc.). As a result, in some
   embodiments, the described underlayment is able to reduce shearing forces between the cast and
   the patient's skin.
            In yet another example of a suitable modification, some embodiments of the compression
 0 sock 110, the padding sock 112, and/or the localized padding 114 comprise and/or are
   configured to comprise (e.g., via cutting, tearing, separating perforated lined, and/or otherwise
   configured to define) an offloading hole that is configured to correspond in position to a wound
   on an appendage using such component(s).         In this manner, one or more components of the
   underlayment 16 can help offload at least some weight/pressure from a wound, and distribute
25 such weight/pressure to another portion of the appendage using such component(s).
            Each of the various components of the underlayment 16 can optionally be modified in
   any suitable manner that allows them to define an offloading hole 92 that can correspond in
   position to a wound on an appendage (and/or any other suitable body part). In one example, one
   or more components of the underlayment are manufactured to include one or more offloading
30 holes. In another example, however, some embodiments of one or more of the underlayment
   components are easily customizable, such that one or more portions of the various underlayment

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    37
   components can be removed to provide an offloading hole. In such embodiments, the various
   portions of the underlayment can be removed in any suitable manner, including, without
   limitation, by removing portions of the compression sock 110, the padding sock 112, and/or the
   localized padding 114 with scissors, a knife, a punch, and/or another cutting instrument. In some
 5 embodiments, however, one or more of the underlayment components comprise one or more
   perforated portions that are easily torn, cut, and/or otherwise separated to release one or more
   portions of such component(s).        By way of non-limiting illustration, Fig. lOG shows an
   embodiment in which the optional localized padding 114 comprises a plurality of perforated
   lines 117 that allow one or more portions of the padding to be removed to create an offloading
 0 hole (not shown) that can correspond in position to a wound.
           In addition to the characteristics previously mentioned, the described cast underlayment
   16 can have several features.     Indeed, in one example, where one or more portions of the
   underlayment (e.g., the compression sock 110, the padding sock 112, and/or the localized
   padding 114) comprise an antimicrobial material (e.g., a bamboo fabric), the underlayment may
 5 help combat infection, odor, bacteria, fungus, excess moisture, and/or otherwise help wounds on
   the bandaged appendage to heal. Additionally, in some embodiments in which one or more
   components of the underlayment comprise bamboo or another breathable fabric (including,
   without limitation, a fabric that is formed with ventilation holes in it), the cast system 10 can
   provide better ventilation than may some conventional casts that simply comprise a cotton
 0 underlayment. As a result, of the foregoing, some embodiments of the described underlayment
   can improve healing time and/or reduce the costs associated with certain healing procedures.
           In yet another example of a beneficial characteristic of the underlayment 16, in some
   implementations in which the underlayment comprises 2, 3, 4, 5, or more layers of one or more
   materials (e.g., one or more compression sock 110, padding socks 112, localized padding 114
25 layer, etc.), the underlayment functions as a multi-layer shear reduction system, allowing
   shearing movement between the skin of a casted appendage and the cast itself to take place
   between the multiple layers of the underlayment (e.g., the padding sock 110 and the compression
   sock 112).    As a result, some embodiments of the described underlayment can dramatically
   reduce the skin damage that is often caused by some conventional casts.
30

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     38
                                           FOOTPLATE / BOOT
            With respect to the footplate and boot 18, the footplate and/or boot can comprise any
   suitable component that allows a patient to wear the footplate and/or boot on a wounded foot/leg.
   With respect to the footplate, the footplate can include any suitable component or characteristic
 5 that allows it to support a patient's foot. Indeed, in some embodiments, the footplate comprises
   a top plantar surface and an undersurface. In this regard, the top surface can include any suitable
   characteristic that allows the footplate to support a patient's foot.        By way of non-limiting
   illustration, Fig. 12A shows that, in some embodiments, the footplate 124 defines an indentation
   (or a heel cup 126) towards the plate's posterior end 128. While this indentation can perform
 0 any suitable function, in some embodiments, it is configured to cradle a patient's heel and/or to
   help ensure that the patient's heel is correctly positioned on the orthopedic footplate 124 (i.e.,
   when the foot is first placed on the footplate and as the patient walks).
            While the undersurface of the footplate 124 can comprise any suitable characteristic that
   allows a patient to walk on the footplate, in some embodiments, the footplate comprises a cam
 5 shaped undersurface. In this regard, an eccentric portion of the cam-shaped undersurface can be
   disposed in any suitable location (e.g., posteriorly, medially, laterally, anteriorly, in the middle of
   the footplate, etc.) that allows the patient to walk and/or slide the patient's foot across a surface.
   By way of non-limiting illustration, Figs. 12B, 12C, and 12D respectively show embodiments in
   which the eccentric portion 130 of the footplate 124 is disposed anteriorly, in the middle, and
 0 posteriorly on the footplate 124.
            As another example of a suitable characteristic of the footplate 124, the footplate can
   have any suitable thickness that allows a patient to walk on it. Indeed, in some embodiments, the
   distance (as shown by D in Fig. 12B) between a highest point on the top surface 132 of the
   footplate upon which a patient places the patient's foot and a lowest point 134 on the
25 undersurface 136 of the footplate is between about 1 mm and about 5 cm.                  Moreover, the
   distance D between the highest point on the top surface and the lowest point on the undersurface
   of the footplate can fall in any sub-range of the aforementioned range (e.g., between about 0.3
   and about 1.5 cm). Indeed, in some embodiments, the described footplate is relatively thin (e.g.,
   between about 0.4 and about 0.8 cm), thus, reducing any limb length discrepancy between a
30 patient's leg that is using the footplate and (where the patient only wears the footplate on one
   foot) the patient's leg that is not wearing the footplate.

       WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                      39
            As yet another example of a suitable characteristic of the footplate 124, the footplate can
   attach to a cast (e.g., the described cast 12 and/or any other suitable cast), a splint, a leg, a foot,
   and/or any other suitable object in any suitable manner that allows it to be used as intended.
   Indeed, although in some embodiments, the footplate and cast (e.g., cast 12) are integrally
 5 connected (e.g., via one or more adhesives, pieces of tape, types of welding, types of stitching,
   mechanical fasteners, and/or any other suitable mechanism), in other embodiments, the two
   components are selectively attachable (e.g., via one or more straps, hook and loop fasteners,
   cords, etc.).    In one example, Fig. 12E shows the cast 12 and footplate are attached via an
   adhesive (not shown), a hook and loop fastener (not shown), a piece of tape (not shown), a
 0 portion of the footplate being wrapped within a portion of the cast (not shown), and/or in any
   other suitable manner. In another example, Figs. 12F and 12G show that (in some embodiments)
   the footplate 124 is configured to receive one or more straps, cords, and/or other binding 138
   (e.g., in the binding indentations 140 or otherwise) that are wrapped around a portion of the
   footplate and cast to secure the footplate to the cast.
 5          As another example of a suitable method for connecting the footplate 124 to a cast, leg,
   and/or another suitable component, in some embodiments, the footplate comprises one or more
   upright supports that allow the footplate to be anchored to a patient's leg. In this manner, the
   footplate can be used as a boot 18.
            While the upright supports can comprise any suitable component, Figs. 12J through 12L
 0 show that some embodiments of the upright supports 142 are configured to be attached to one or
   more attachment mechanisms 144, which may include, but are not limited to, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
   or more straps, cords, and/or other devices that are capable of securing the upright supports to a
   patient's leg/cast.     Additionally, Figure 12L shows that some embodiments of the upright
   supports 142 include and/or are attached to one or more flaps 146 (e.g., lateral/medial flaps 148,
25 posterior flaps 150, and/or anterior flaps 152, as respectively shown in Figs. 12M, 12N, and
   120) that help distribute pressure on the upright supports across a portion of the patient's leg to
   further offload weight from a wound on the patient's foot. In some such embodiments, the flaps
   can have any suitable characteristic. Indeed, in some embodiments, one or more of the internal
   surfaces of the flaps (e.g., the surfaces that are configured to interface with the cast) comprises a
30 material, texturing, and/or other feature that allows it to maintain its position with respect to the
   cast (e.g., as the patient walks in the boot).

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    40
            The described footplate 124/boot 18 can be modified in any suitable manner that allows it
   to fulfill its intended purpose. In one example, the footplate/boot can be modified to include any
   and/or all components of the described cast system 10. For instance, in some embodiments (e.g.,
   as shown in Fig. 12K), the foot support 14 is attached to the footplate 12. In another example,
 5 the footplate is attachable to any suitable and known or novel slipper, sandal, shoe, overshoe
   (e.g., galoshes), slide, and/or other footwear/cast wear. By way of non-limiting illustration, Fig.
   12Q shows a representative embodiment in which the footplate 124 is attached to a shoe 154.
                                        ASSOCIATED METHODS
            The various components of the described cast system 10 can be used in any suitable
 0 manner that allows the components (individually or in combination) to help protect a wounded
   portion of a patient's body. In this regard, the various components of the described cast system
   can be used in any suitable combination, meaning that virtually any portion of the cast system
   can be omitted, any portion of the cast system can be replaced with one or more other known or
   novel components, and that any suitable component (including, without limitation, any suitable
 5 wound dressing, primary contact wound dressing, cast, underlayment, boot, footplate, sock,
   shoe, ointment, negative pressure mechanism, positive pressure mechanism, and/or any other
   suitable mechanism, medicine, and/or treatment) can be added to (or used with) one or more
   components of the described cast system.
            While the described components of the cast system 10 can be applied a patient in any
 0 suitable manner, Fig. 13 illustrates some embodiments of a method 198 for placing the cast
   system on a patient. This method, however, can be modified in any suitable manner (including
   by rearranging, adding to, removing, substituting, and/or otherwise modifying one or more
   portions of the method).
            As shown at step 202 in Fig. 13, in at least some embodiments, the method 198
25 optionally begins at step 200 by applying any suitable and known or novel wound dressing (e.g.,
   a primary contact wound dressing) to the wound.       Step 202 shows that, in some embodiments,
   the method 198 continues by providing one or more elements of the described cast system 10
   (e.g., the cast 12, foot support 14, compression sock 110, padding sock 112, localized padding
   114, boot 18, and/or footplate 124).
30          Step 204 shows that in some embodiments in which the cast system 10 comprises a foot
   support 14, the method 198 continues as the foot support is optionally tailored for the patient's

       WO 2015/006766                                                            PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     41
   foot. While the foot support can be tailored for the patient's foot in any suitable manner, in some
   embodiments, a patient's foot is placed on the foot support (e.g., somewhat posterior to an
   anterior end of the foot support to avoid to impingement), an outline of the patient's foot is made
   on the foot support, and portions of the foot support that fall outside of the outline are removed
 5 (e.g., via tearing perforations 102, cutting the support with scissors, etc.). In some embodiments
   in which the patient's foot comprises a wound, the location of the wound is determined, and a
   corresponding portion of the foot support is removed to create an offloading hole 92.
   Additionally, in some embodiments, once the foot support has been cut to match an outline of
   the patient's foot and an offloading hole has been created, the foot support is placed up against
 0 the patient's foot to ensure that the foot support has been properly tailored.
            Continuing with the method 198, step 206 shows that in some embodiments in which the
   method includes applying a compression sock 110, the sock can be applied (e.g., to a bandaged
   or un-bandaged lower leg 24). While this sock can be applied in any suitable manner, in some
   embodiments, the compression sock is rolled, slid, and/or otherwise placed on the patient such
 5 that the patient's toes can receive proper ventilation.
            At step 208, Fig. 13 shows that in some embodiments in which the cast system 10
   comprises a padded sock 112, the padded sock is applied to the patient's leg (e.g., over the
   compression sock 110). While the padded sock can be applied in any suitable manner, in some
   embodiments, a proximal portion of the sock (e.g., a portion that is adjacent to the patient's
 0 knee) is folded back on itself, distal to the patient's knee (e.g., one to three fingers width below
   the patient's fibula head).
            At step 210, Fig. 13 shows that, in some embodiments in which the cast system 10
   comprises a piece of localized padding 114 (e.g., a shin pad 116), the localized padding is
   optionally applied to the patient's lower leg 24. While the localized padding can be applied in
25 any suitable manner, in some embodiments, the localized padding comprises an adhesive that
   allows it to adhere to a surface (e.g., to a surface of the padding sock 112). Additionally, in
   some embodiments, a portion of the localized padding is tucked under the folded back portion of
   the padding sock.
            At step 212, Fig. 13 shows that in some embodiments in which the cast system 10
30 comprises the foot support 14, the patient's foot (e.g., a foot that is covered with the compression
   sock 110 and the padding sock 112) is placed on the foot support 14.

       WO 2015/006766                                                         PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     42
            Continuing with the method 198, step 214 shows that, in some embodiments in which the
   cast system 10 comprises the clam-shell cast 12, the cast is applied to the patient's lower leg 24.
   While the cast can be applied to a patient in any suitable manner, Figs. 14A-14F show that, in
   some embodiments, once the casting material 18 is ready (e.g., wetted; removed from an air-tight
 5 package, a foil package, and/or other suitable package; and/or otherwise prepared), the patient's
   leg 24 is placed on the unfolded cast 12 (e.g., as shown in Fig. 14A), and the second 26 and third
   34 portions of the elongated casting material 18 are folded over the dorsal portion 38 and shin
   portion 70 (e.g., as shown in Fig. 14B).
            While the straps 48 and 50 can be wrapped around the cast 12 in any suitable manner, in
 0 some embodiments, the straps are configured to be matched and wrapped around or with each
   other.    In this regard, the various portions of each strap can be matched, wrapped, and/or
   otherwise connected with any other portion of itself and/or any other strap.              In some
   embodiments, however, one or more straps are optionally marked to indicate which straps should
   be matched and/or connected with each other. In this regard, the various straps can be marked in
 5 any suitable manner that allows them to be readily matched. Indeed, in some embodiments, the
   straps matching straps comprise one or more matching markings (e.g., symbols, letters, words,
   and/or other markings), matching colors (e.g., colors of material and/or thread), and/or any other
   suitable matching mechanism that allows a user (e.g., a medical practitioner) to quickly identify
   which straps match and/or should be connected with each other.            By way of non-limiting
 0 illustration, Fig. 14A shows some embodiments in which the straps 48 and 50 comprise a strap
   matching mechanism 220 in which straps (e.g., straps 48 and 50) that should be connected
   together are marked with the same letter (e.g., A, B, C, or D).
            In any case, Figs. 14C-14D show that, in some embodiments, the straps 48 and 50 are
   wrapped into position while the foot is kept at a suitable angle (e.g., about 90  10 degrees) with
25 respect to the leg, cuts 62 or notches 60 are formed at the heel or other bend points (e.g., Fig.
   14E), additional casting material (not shown) is optionally removed from one or more portions
   of the cast, additional casting material is rolled or otherwise placed on one or more portions of
   the cast (e.g., in some embodiments, strengthening the cast and/or covering one or more holes 64
   or openings in the cast), and/or a proximal end of the compression sock 110 is folded over a
30 proximal end of the cast 12 (e.g., Fig. 14F). In some embodiments, water is also applied to the
   cast to smooth the cast out before it hardens.

       WO 2015/006766                                                          PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     43
           Returning to Fig. 13, step 216 shows that, in some embodiments, the method 198
   continues as the cast 12 is placed in a boot 18 and/or footplate 124 (e.g., as shown in Fig 1A). In
   this regard (and as discussed above), the cast be placed in any known or novel boot that is
   suitable for use with the cast. Additionally, in some embodiments, the method 198 is repeated
 5 one or more times to help a wound to heal.
           The various components of the described cast system 10 can be formed in any suitable
   manner, including, without limitation, through weaving, knitting, extrusion, molding, heating,
   pressing, wrapping, cutting, folding, sewing, scoring, adhering, perforating, attaching with
   fasteners, bending, and/or any other suitable technique.         Additionally, although, in some
 0 embodiments, one or more components of the described cast system are sterilized before being
   brought to market, in some other embodiments, one or more components of the cast system are
   left unsterilized.
            Thus, the present      invention relates    to orthopedic  casts.     In particular, some
   implementations of the present invention relate to one or more components of a total contact cast
 5 system that can be used in the treatment of an appendage, such as a leg or foot.              More
   particularly, in some implementations of the described casting system are configured to support a
   patient's foot and leg, while offloading weight from a sore, ulcer, and/or wound on the patient's
   foot.
           In addition to any previously indicated modification, numerous other variations and
 0 alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the
   spirit and scope of this description, and appended claims are intended to cover such
   modifications and arrangements.      Thus, while the information has been described above with
   particularity and detail in connection with what is presently deemed to be the most practical and
   preferred aspects, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous
25 modifications, including, but not limited to, form, function, manner of operation, and use may be
   made without departing from the principles and concepts set forth herein. Also, as used herein,
   the examples, implementations, and embodiments, in all respects, are meant to be illustrative
   only and should not be construed to be limiting in any manner. In addition, as the terms on,
   disposed on, attached to, connected to, coupled to, etc. are used herein, one object (e.g., a
30 material, element, structure, member, etc.) can be on, disposed on, attached to, connected to, or
   coupled to another object-regardless of whether the one object is directly on, attached,

      WO 2015/006766                                                           PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    44
  connected, or coupled to the other object, or whether there are one or more intervening objects
  between the one object and the other object. Also, directions (e.g., on top of, below, above, top,
  bottom, side, up, down, under, over, upper, lower, lateral, medial, vertical, horizontal, distal,
  proximal, etc.), if provided, are relative and provided solely by way of example and for ease of
5 illustration and discussion and not by way of limitation. Furthermore, where reference is made
  herein to a list of elements (e.g., elements a, b, c), such reference is intended to include any one
  of the listed elements by itself, any combination of less than all of the listed elements, and/or a
  combination of all of the listed elements. Also, as used herein, the terms a, an, and one may each
  be interchangeable with the terms at least one and one or more. It should also be noted, that
0 while the term step is used herein, that term may be used to simply draw attention to different
  portions of the described methods and is not meant to delineate a starting point or a stopping
  point for any portion of the methods, or to be limiting in any other way.
           What is claimed is:

    WO 2015/006766                                                                PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    45
  5 1.    An orthopedic cast comprising:
          an elongated piece of hardenable casting material comprising:
                   a first length of the casting material, which is configured to extend linearly over
          a first surface of a patient's appendage, the first surface located on a dorsal side of the
          patient;
 .0                a second length of the casting material, which is configured to wrap around and
          cover substantially an entirety of an end portion of the patient's appendage; and
                   a third length of the casting material that is configured to extend linearly up a
          second surface of the patient's appendage, wherein the second surface is located on
          a ventral side of the patient and is substantially opposite to the first surface of the
 .5       patient's appendage, and wherein the first length of the casting material and the third
          length of the casting material are configured to secure the orthopedic cast to the
          patient's appendage; and
                   wherein the casting material does not spirally wrap around the first or second
          surfaces of the patient's appendage.
  0 2.    The cast of claim 1, wherein the orthopedic cast comprises at least one of a wing and
          a strap that is configured to extend between the first length and the third length to
          secure the orthopedic cast to the patient's appendage.
    3.    The cast of claim 1, wherein the patient's appendage comprises a leg, and wherein the
          second length of the casting material is configured to extend over a portion of a heal,
  5       a sole, and a toe of the leg.
    4.    The cast of claim 1, wherein the patient's appendage comprises a leg, and wherein the
          third length of the casting material is configured to extend over a dorsal portion of a
          foot and over a shin of the leg.
    5.    The cast of claim 1, wherein the patient's appendage comprises a leg, and wherein the
30        second length comprises a foot strap that is configured to extend between the second
          length and the third length, over a dorsal portion of a foot on the leg.
    6.    The cast of claim 1, wherein the elongated piece of hardenable casting material does
          not itself spirally wrap around the patient's appendage.
    7.    The cast of claim 1, further comprising a strap that is configured to extend between the
35        first length and the third length to secure the orthopedic cast to the patient's
          appendage.
    8.     The cast of claim 7, wherein the strap is permanently coupled to a portion of the
          casting material before application to the patient's appendage.
    9.    The cast of claim 7, wherein the strap is attached to, and extends substantially
40        orthogonally from at least one of the first length, the second length, and the third length.
    10.   The cast of claim 1, wherein the patient's appendage comprises a leg, and wherein the
          orthopedic cast further comprises a reinforcement extending between the first length

     WO 2015/006766                                                                  PCT/US2014/046510
                                                     46
  5        and the third length, about at least one of an ankle portion and a foot portion of the
           orthopedic cast.
     11.   An orthopedic cast comprising:
           an elongated piece of a hardenable casting material comprising:
                    a first length of the casting material that is configured to extend over a posterior
 .0        surface of a patient's lower leg;
                    a second length of the casting material that is configured to wrap over a heel
           end and a toe end of a foot on the patient's leg; and
                    a third length of the casting material that is configured to extend over an anterior
           surface of the patient's lower leg; and
 .5                 a connector that is configured to extend between the first length and the third
           length to fix the orthopedic cast to the patient's lower leg; and
                    wherein the casting material does not spirally wrap around the posterior or
           anterior surfaces of the patient's appendage.
     12.    The cast of claim 11, wherein the connector comprises a piece of the hardenable
  '0       casting material.
     13.   The cast of claim 12, wherein the connector comprises fewer layers of the hardenable
           casting material than does the elongated piece of the hardenable casting material.
     14.   The cast of claim 11, wherein the elongated piece of the hardenable casting material
           comprises a folding accommodation between the first length and the second length.
 '5  15.   The cast of claim 11, wherein the elongated piece of the hardenable casting material
           comprises a folding accommodation between the second length and the third length.
     16.   The cast of claim 11, wherein the elongated piece of the hardenable casting material
           defines a ventilation hole.
     17.   The cast of claim 11, wherein the hardenable casting material comprises an
30         antimicrobial material.
     18.   A method for applying an orthopedic cast to a patient, the method comprising:
           obtaining an orthopedic cast comprising an elongated piece of a hardenable casting
           material;
                    placing a first length of the elongated piece of the casting material linearly over
35         a first surface of an appendage;
                    placing a second length of the elongated piece of the casting material over
           substantially an entirety of an end of the appendage;

    WO 2015/006766                                                                 PCT/US2014/046510
                                                    47
  5                placing a third length of the elongated piece of the casting material linearly over
          a second surface of the appendage, wherein the second surface is substantially
          opposite to the first surface; and securing the first length to the third length; and
                   wherein the casting material does not spirally wrap around the first or second
          surfaces of the patient's appendage.
 .0 19.   The method of claim 18, wherein the orthopedic cast is configured to be placed on the
          patient while the patient is in at least one of a sitting, a prone, and a supine position.
    20.   The method of claim 18, further comprising securing the second length to the third
          length via at least one a strap and a wing.
    21.   The method of claim 18, wherein the elongated casting material defines a ventilation
 .5       hole.
    22.   The method of claim 18, further comprising placing a cast underlayment comprising an
          antimicrobial material on the appendage.
    23.   The method of claim 18, further comprising placing a compression sock on the
          appendage.
 .0 24.    The method of claim 23, further comprising placing a padding sock on the appendage.
    25.   The method of claim 24, further comprising attaching at least a portion of the padding
          sock to the orthopedic cast.
    26.   A method for applying an orthopedic cast to a patient, the method comprising:
          obtaining an orthopedic cast, comprising an elongated piece of a hardenable casting
 .5       material;
                   placing a first length of the elongated piece of the casting material linearly over
          a posterior surface of the patient's lower leg;
                   placing a second length of the elongated piece of the casting material linearly
          over a portion of a heel, a sole, and a toe of the patient's lower leg;
30                 placing a third length of the elongated piece of the casting material linearly over
          an anterior surface of the patient' s lower leg, wherein the first length, the second
          length, and the third length of the elongated piece of the casting material are integrally
          connected together; and
                   securing the first length to the third length via at least one of a first strap and a
35        first wing; and
                   wherein the casting material does not spirally wrap around the first or second
          surfaces of the patient's appendage.
    27.   The method of claim 26, further comprising placing a first underlayment component
          and a second underlayment component over a portion of the patient' s lower leg.

    WO 2015/006766                                                              PCT/US2014/046510
                                                  48
  5 28.   The method of claim 26, wherein the first underlayment component and the second
          underlayment component are independently moveable within the orthopedic cast with
          respect to each other.
    29.    The method of claim 27, wherein the first underlayment component comprises a
          compression sock and wherein the second underlayment comprises a padding sock.
 .0 30.   The method of claim 27, wherein the first underlayment component comprises an
          antimicrobial material.
    31.   The method of claim 27, further comprising obtaining a foot support comprising a built
          in toe guard, and placing a foot of the patient's lower leg in the foot support.
    32.   The method of claim 31, further comprising removing a portion of the foot support
 .5       corresponding in position to a wound on the foot to form an offloading hole.
    33.   A method for applying a total contact cast to a patient, the method comprising:
          obtaining a total contact cast, comprising:
                  an elongated piece of a hardenable casting material having first length, a
          second length, and a third length; and
 .0               a first strap portion of the hardenable casting material that extends laterally
          from at least one of a lateral edge and a medial edge of the elongated piece of the
          casting material;
                  placing the first length of the elongated piece of the casting material over a
          posterior surface of the patient's lower leg; placing the second length of the elongated
 .5       piece of the casting material over a portion of a heel, a sole, and a toe of the patient's
          lower leg;
                  placing the third length of the elongated piece of the casting material over an
          anterior surface of the patient's lower leg; and
                  securing the first length to the third length by wrapping the first strap portion
30        between first and third length.
    34.    The method of claim 33, further comprising placing a compression sock and a padding
          sock on a portion of the patient's lower leg.
    35.   The method of claim 34, wherein the compression sock comprises an antimicrobial
          material.
35  36.    The method of claim 34, wherein the antimicrobial material comprises a bamboo
          material.
    37.   The method of claim 34, further comprising coupling a portion of the padding sock to
          an internal surface of the total contact cast.
    38.      The method of claim 34, wherein the first strap portion comprises a matching
40          mechanism identifying a second strap portion to which the first strap portion should
            be connected.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
