ABSTRACT
This application describes a smart headband designed to assist
the operational efficiency of a laser helmet where the laser
helmet  is comprised of a helmet or apparatus designed to be
worn on a patient's head that is  capable of housing multiple
lasers, where the lasers are required to deliver laser light
or laser energy to a patient's scalp for the treatment of hair
loss.  This application outlines a way to manage the optimal
distance between a patient's scalp and lasers housed in a
helmet via a novel headband design, where the headband
compensates for the natural variability of patient head sizes,
thus ensuring that the lasers housed in a laser helmet remain
at a constant distance from a given patient's scalp regardless
of the patient's head size.

DRAWINGS
      Figure 1
       1
      Figure 2
               2

                                1
BACKGROUND
[0001]     The subject matter of this application is related to
information presentation.
[0002]     In recent years there has been a significant
increase in the use of lasers in the application of Low Level
Laser Therapy  (LLLT) for the treatment of hair loss in
patients suffering from Patterned Baldness.
[0003]     This application describes a novel way of actively
managing the distance between lasers that are housed in a
laser helmet and a patient's scalp, where the laser helmet is
being used to deliver Low Level Laser Therapy   (LLLT) to a
patient's scalp for the treatment of hair loss. In such
applications, the distance between the lasers and the
treatment area can have a significant impact on the energy
density delivered to the scalp. Energy density is a key
parameter affecting the efficacy of Low Level Laser Therapy
 (LLLT). If energy density is too low because the lasers are
too far away, or if energy density is  too high because the
lasers are too close to the scalp, the resulting treatment
will not be optimal and may even be ineffective. When using a
laser helmet to deliver Low Level Laser Therapy to a patient's
scalp, where the position of the lasers in the helmet is
fixed, the distance between the lasers and the patient's scalp
may vary depending on the size of the patient's head. Any
variation in the distance between the lasers and the patient's
scalp will have an impact on energy density of the laser light
delivered to the scalp. In such applications, energy density
can be regulated by employing a smart headband that   is
designed to maintain a consistent distance between the lasers
housed in the helmet and a given patient's scalp, regardless

                                        2
of the size of the patient's head. Currently no such smart
headband design exists for laser helmets and typically product
designers make compromises by designing laser helmets for a
standardised head size with the headband only serving the
purpose of securing the helmet to the patient's head. This
leads to less than optimal treatment effectiveness for
patients that do not possess a head size equivalent to the
standard selected by the product designer, because the optimal
energy density for treatment may not be achieved.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DIAGRAMS
Figure. 1 is       an image    depicting the plan view of the smart
headband.
Figure. 2 is       an image depicting an elevation view of the smart
headband.
Figure. 3 is       an image of the smart headband fitted to a laser
helmet with the smart headband in the fully open
configuration, as it would be for a patient with a large head.
Figure. 4 is       an image of the smart headband fitted to a laser
helmet with the smart headband in the fully closed
configuration, as it would be for a patient with a small head.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
       Figure 1. Is       an overview image of the smart headband
design.

                                           3
[0004]       [1]   refers to the front section of the smart
headband's surface. This surface of the smart headband rests
against the patient's forehead when the helmet is in use.                     [2]
refers to the thickness of            [1].   [2]  determines the primary
offset distance from the lasers              in the helmet and the front
section of the patient's scalp, that               is,  the section of scalp
just above the patient's forehead. The energy density of the
light delivered to the patient's scalp is                calculated and
optimised with respect to the offset distance                  [2].  [3] depicts
the sides of the smart headband.              [4]  represents    the ratchet or
mechanism for adjusting the smart headband.                [4]   allows the
headband to be tightened          (closed) to fit a small head or
loosened    (opened) to fit a large head.
[0005]       Figure. 3 is      an image depicting the smart headband
fitted to a laser helmet, with the smart headband in the fully
open configuration.       [3]   depicts the sides of the smart
headband.    [5]   depicts the sides of the laser helmet and               [6]
shows the headband sides          [3]   sitting up against the laser
helmet  sides     [5].
[0006]       Figure. 4 is      an image depicting the smart headband
fitted to a laser helmet, with the smart headband in the fully
closed configuration.         [4]  represents the ratchet that is used
to tighten     (close) or loosen         (open) the headband. As       the
headband is tightened         (closed) the smart headband sides            [3]
detach from the sides of the helmet               [5]  as depicted by the gap
[7].  This has     the effect of pushing the patient's head forward
relative to the lasers housed in the laser helmet as depicted
by the gap     [8].   The overall effect of this design is             that, as
the smart headband tightens and detaches from the sides of the
helmet   [5]  the headband maintains a consistent distance
between the lasers       [9]   and the patient's        forehead. This

                                4
ensures that the lasers  [91 deliver consistent energy density
to all patients scalps  regardless of their head size.
[0007]    The primary function of the smart headband is to
ensure a consistent distance between the patient's scalp and
the lasers housed in the laser helmet regardless of the
patient's head size. The secondary function of the smart
headband is to ensure that the laser helmet remains fixed in
place while the laser helmet is   in operation.
[00081    The smart headband may contain a sensor or sensors
designed to detect contact between the patient's head and the
smart headband.
[00091    The smart headband may contain a sensor or sensors
designed to monitor temperature.

                               1
CLAIMS:
   1.   A smart headband for a laser helmet, comprising:
A headband designed to be fitted to a laser helmet in such a
way that the primary function of the headband is to maintain a
consistent distance between the patient's scalp and the lasers
housed in the laser helmet regardless of the patient's head
size, to ensure consistent delivery of laser energy to a
patient's scalp for the treatment of hair loss;
A headband designed to be fitted to a laser helmet where the
thickness of the section of the headband that comes into
contact with the patient's forehead, defines the distance
between the lasers housed in the laser helmet and the
patient's scalp;
A headband designed to be fitted to a laser helmet where the
sides and or rear section of the headband detach from the
laser helmet as the headband is tightened, with the purpose of
pushing the patient's head forward relative to the lasers in
the laser helmet in order to maintain a consistent gap between
the lasers housed in the front section of the helmet and the
and the patient's scalp regardless of the patient's head size.
   2.   A headband designed for a laser helmet with the
        purpose of maintaining a consistent distance between
        the patient's scalp and the lasers housed in the laser
        helmet regardless of the patient's head size as
        described in claim 1 that is made from foam or any
        other suitable flexible material.

                           2
3. A headband designed for a laser helmet with the
   purpose of maintaining a consistent distance between
   the patient's scalp and the lasers housed in the laser
   helmet regardless of the patient's head size as
   described in claim 1 that contains a ratchet or
   similar mechanism to tighten or loosen the headband.
4. A headband designed for a laser helmet with the
   purpose of maintaining a consistent distance between
   the patient's scalp and the lasers housed in the laser
   helmet regardless of the patient's head size as
   described in claim 1 that contains a sensor to
   determine contact between the headband and the
   patient's head.
5. A headband designed for a laser helmet with the
   purpose of maintaining a consistent distance between
   the patient's scalp and the lasers housed in the laser
   helmet regardless of the patient's head size as
   described in claim 1 that contains a sensor to detect
   temperature inside the laser helmet and or temperature
   of the patient's scalp.

<removed-date>
              DRAWINGS
                   Figure 1
<removed-apn>
                   Figure 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4                         Figure 3

