                                       ABSTRACT
A single phase grid correction system for correcting the power factor of an electrical
power grid. The grid has a generator, transmission lines connecting the generator to
distribution nodes, feeder lines radiating from each node, and groups of consumers
connected to each feeder line. A capacitor bank is located at a number of consumer's
premises, indoors, either beside or forming part of the consumer's normal single phase
electric panel. A set of remotely controlled switches at the consumer's premises
permits the capacitor banks to be switched in and out of grid connection and also
allows non-essential high energy consuming loads, not necessarily inductive, to be
switched on and off the grid. The grid correction systems are widely distributed at
consumer's premises throughout the grid. By remotely controlling the switches, the
utility operator can switch capacitor banks at selected consumer premises in or out of
the grid to provide or remove reactive power as needed, and can also selectively
remove load from the grid to reduce the likelihood of sudden uncontrollable load
shedding.

                       1/3
U*)
      040
          co      n
                                     ------
 C                                      rN- co
           c~co w      I
             00
   CC
           I-0
                        0)~     (NI4
                     I      1~-                E
                   '-a

         SINGLE PHASE POWER FACTOR CORRECTION SYSTEM AND METHOD
   FIELD
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   2009307002, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 5
   [00011 The present invention relates to apparatus and a method for enhancing the
   efficiency of power systems. In particular, it relates to apparatus and a method for
   reducing transmission losses in electrical power transmission and distribution systems,
   and for reducing electrical power demand during peak times and assisting in electrical
   power transactions.
10
   BACKGROUND
   [0002] The power factor is the ratio of real power to apparent power in a transmission
   and distribution system. It is used by the power industry to gauge the efficiency of a
   power distribution system. Real power measures the ability of an electrical load to
15 perform work in a set time, and is associated with power consumption by a resistive load.
   Reactive power is associated with power generated by the impedance of a reactive
   load, which can be inductive or capacitive. The apparent power is the sum of the real
   power and the reactive power and may be equal to or greater than the real power
   depending on the parasitic reactive power.
20 [0003] In a purely resistive circuit, voltage and current waveforms are in phase and the
   power factor is one, In a circuit having reactive loads such as capacitive or inductive
   loads, there can be a phase difference between the current and voltage waveforms,
   which causes the power factor to be less than one. Because the stored energy returns
   to its source and does not perform work at the load, a circuit with a lower power factor
25 will receive higher currents for a given quantity of received real power than a circuit
   with a higher power factor.
    [0004] Power distribution networks with a low power factor are undesirable, because
   they require power lines to carry more current than necessary to provide real power to
    customers. The additional current can result in line losses, reduced life span of the
    equipment and the need to build new power generating facilities.
                                                   1

   [0005]         According to one study, the average power factor for a
   residential consumer is 0.87. This means that 87% of the current contributes
   to real power and 13% is used for reactive power. The power factor can
   decrease drastically during peak demand hours, when reactive power takes
 5 up a larger percentage for home appliances such as HVAC motors, washers.
   This can cause power distribution issues.
   [0006]         Power utilities have made efforts to improve the power factor of
   their networks, by adding capacitor banks and other components at
   substations before the secondary or distribution lines (usually 11-2.4kV) that
10 distribute power to the consumers. These other components include phase
   shifting transformers, static VAR compensators, and flexible AC transmission
   systems (FACTS) to control reactive power flow for reduction of losses and
   stabilization of system voltage. However, these capacitor banks and other
   components do not eliminate the majority of the power losses. Many of these
15 components and capacitors are also large, difficult to install, suffer from
   transient breakdown, require extra infrastructure, and need expensive on
   going maintenance.
   [0007]         Another approach used by utilities to improve the power factor is
   to place a static capacitor bank in the secondary or distribution lines (also
20 called radial lines or feeder lines). However, a static capacitor bank has no
   control capabilities, and a capacitance constantly on-line can be detrimental to
   the distributing system, by causing higher line current at periods of low usage
   by the consumers.
   [0008]         Accordingly, there is a need for improved systems for correcting
25 the power factor in power transmission and distribution systems, which do not
   have at least some of the disadvantages associated with known systems.
   [0009]         In addition, severe adverse conditions can arise in transmission
   systems. These conditions may require load shedding.            Such conditions
   include and are not limited to extreme demand, generation rejection, and
30 transmission station/line loss. When such conditions arise, transmitters will
   systematically drop feeder lines that supply distribution to the local areas, to
   maintain the system's integrity.
                                           2

   [0010]         The dropping of a feeder line involves the total disruption (i.e.
   loss) of electricity delivery for every consumer supplied by distribution stations
   using that feeder,       This is very disruptive to residential and commercial
   customers who are connected to this service.
 5 [0011]         In the case of a widespread blackout, like that which occurred in
   north-eastern North America in 2003, customers using non-critical appliances
   that draw significant power, slowed the reinstatement of the grid. The shock
   of turning on all of the load on a radial line or feeder, including sedentary (i.e.
   switched on) air conditioners was a significant challenge. There presently
10 exists no means for grid operators to decrease loading to avoid widespread
   load shedding or to minimize startup load for reconnecting the customers to
   the grid.
   [0012]         Reactive power is used for the transmission of electricity by
   supporting the transactions of power from one bus to the other. Consequently
15 this reactive power also provides voltage support. This reactive power is
   usually generated by power stations or capacitor banks at key transmission
   busses. The reactive draw from customers on distribution feeders attached to
   the transmission busses could be used to assist in transaction and voltage
   support but this has never been accomplished as yet.
20
   SUMMARY
   [0013]         According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided a
   single phase grid correction system for correcting the power factor of an
   electrical power grid, the grid having an electricity supply, at least one
25 transmission line connecting the supply to a distribution node, a number of
   feeder lines radiating from the node, and a number of consumers connected
   to each feeder line. The consumers each have individual premises with a
   single phase consumer electrical panel therein for receiving power from the
   feeder line. The system includes a capacitor bank connected to the panel of at
30 least a plurality of the consumers. Each capacitor bank is located at a
   consumer's premises. The system also includes a remotely controlled switch
   connected to the capacitor bank for connecting or disconnecting the capacitor
   bank from the feeder line. The remotely controlled switch includes a receiver
                                             3

   for receiving instructions for connecting the capacitor bank to or disconnecting
   it from the feeder line and for operating the switch according to such
   instructions. The capacitor bank and remotely controlled switch are housed
   indoors inside the relevant consumer's premises either proximate to or within
 5 the consumer electrical panel.
   [0014]         According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a
   method for correcting the power factor of an electrical power grid, the power
   grid having an electricity supply, at least one transmission line connecting said
   supply to a distribution node, and a number of feeder lines radiating from the
10 distribution node. Each feeder line has a number of consumers connected
   thereto. Each consumer has a premises and a single phase electrical panel
   within the premises. The method including the steps of: (i) placing a capacitor
   bank adjacent to or within the electrical panel of a selected number of the
   consumers' premises, wherein the selected number of consumers' premises
15 are connected to a number of the feeder lines with the capacitor banks being
   located indoors at the consumers' premises; (ii) determining whether power
   factor correction is needed; and (iii) if power factor correction is needed, then
   controlling the capacitor banks to connect the capacitor banks at selected
   number of consumers' premises to the grid or to disconnect them from the
20 grid.
   [0015]         According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is
   provided a method for reducing load in a controlled manner in an electrical
   power grid to reduce the likelihood of uncontrolled load shedding in the grid,
   the grid having an electricity supply, a transmission line connecting said
25 supply to a distribution node, and a number of feeder lines radiating from the
   distribution node. Each feeder line has a plurality of consumers connected
   thereto, and each consumer has premises and a single phase electrical panel
   within the premises. The method comprises the steps of: (i) selecting a set of
   consumers, the set including a number of consumers connected to a number
30 of feeder lines;      (ii) placing  a number       of remotely controlled     load
   connect/disconnect switches adjacent to or within the electrical panels at the
   premises of the set of consumers with the load connect/disconnect switches
   being indoors at the consumer's premises and being connected to high
                                             4

   energy consuming loads at the consumer's premises; (iii) determining whether
   load reduction is needed; and (iv) if load reduction is needed, then remotely
   controlling the load connect/disconnect switches to disconnect selected items
   of the load at the premises of the set of consumers from the grid or to
 5 reconnect them to the grid.
   [0016]         Further aspects, features and embodiments of the invention
   appear from the following disclosure, taken together with the accompanying
   drawings.
10 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0017]         Reference is made in the Detailed Description to the following
   drawings, in which:
   [0018]         Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a plurality of single
   phase grid correction systems made in accordance with embodiments of the
15 present invention, shown incorporated into an exemplary power generation,
   transmission and distribution network;
   [0019]         Fig. 2 is a schematic diagram of a single phase grid correction
   system, made in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention; and
20 [00201         Fig. 3 is a schematic diagram of a simplified power transmission
   grid comprising a number of distribution substations that supply power to a
   plurality of consumers utilizing a single phase grid correction system made in
   accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
25  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0021]         Referring now to Fig. 1, a plurality of single phase grid correction
   systems 10 made in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention
   are shown incorporated into an exemplary electrical power network that
    provides electrical power to consumers 200 having a single phase electrical
30  panel. The power network includes electric power generators 11, such as
    hydro-electric, coal or nuclear power plants. (The power network can also
    include connections to another power network in an adjacent area, and from
                                            5

      which power is being purchased on an emergency, or temporary basis, or on
      a permanent basis.) The generated electrical power is fed to transmission
      substations 13 comprising transformers, relays and circuit breakers to convert
      the power to higher voltages for transmission. This is important because
  5   higher voltages result in less power loss according to Joule's law. Electrical
      power is then transmitted at high voltage in three-phase alternating current
     form, across the transmission lines that define a transmission power grid 15,
     to distribution substations 16 operated by a utility operator 23, such as a local
     or regional power utility.
 10  [0022]         A typical distribution substation 16 comprises a step-down
     transformer 17 for lowering transmission voltage to suitable distribution
     voltages, a metering module 18, a transceiver 22 for relaying signals from the
     operator 23 to consumers 200, and a plurality of feeder lines 19, 20 and 21.
     The feeder lines 19-21 distribute power from the step-down transformer 17
 15  (which in effect is a distribution node), to the distribution power grid 25 (and
     eventually to the consumers 200).
     [0023]         As shown, each feeder line 19-21 is itself connected to a
     number of secondary feeder lines in the distribution power grid 25. For
     example, feeder line 19 is shown as connected to secondary feeder lines 19a,
20   19b, 19c. Each secondary feeder line 19a, 19b, 19c is in turn connected to a
     number of end feeder lines 28. Each end feeder line 28 is connected to and
     supplies power to a number of consumers 200. (The arrangement described
     here is exemplary only.)
     [0024]         The metering module 18 may send signals 18a containing
25  metering information to the transceiver 22 for transmitting the metering
     information to the operator 23. The distribution substations 16 may further
    comprise circuit breakers, disconnectors and other demand side management
    equipments.
    [0025]          If the generators 11 and transmission substation 13 provide
30  power in three phases, as will usually be the case, then the step-down
    transformer 17 will provide electricity in three phases, and three phase power
    will be available on feeder lines 19-21, and may be at higher voltage than that
                                             6

   which should be transmitted to the consumers 200. Therefore, the secondary
   feeder lines 19a, 19b, 19c are directed to a further step-down transformer 27
   having windings 27a, 27b, 27c.         Each transformer windings 27a-27c are
   connected to the end feeder lines 28 as previously mentioned.            Each end
 5 feeder line 28a, 28b, 28c distributes power to a number of consumers 200.
   [0026]          The first feeder or distribution lines 19-21         radiate from
   transformer 17, which as mentioned can be considered to be a node. The
   secondary distribution lines 19a, 19b, 19c radiate from each first distribution
   line 19-21 (each of which thus provides another node). The end feeder lines
10 28a-28c radiate from each secondary feeder line 19a, 19b, 19c, each of
   which thus provides a third distribution node. As mentioned, groups of
   consumers 200 are connected through the end feeder lines 28a-28c to each
   third distribution node. Each consumer 200 has indoors at its premises a
   single phase grid correction system 10, made in accordance with the subject
15 invention.
   [0027]          The term "radial" or "radiate" has been used above to indicate
   that the distribution or feeder lines, once they extend from or radiate away
   from the transmission point or transmission node, then have no further power
   connections to each other and are connected only to loads or further feeder
20 lines fed by the distribution or feeder line in question. (There may however be
   signal connections between the various feeder lines.)
   [0028]          The utility operator 23 controls the operation of the single phase
   grid correction systems 10. The operator 23 is free to choose any type of
   control, including and not limited to manual and automatic control.            The
25 operator 23 may send control signals 23b to the transceiver 22 in each of the
   distribution substations 16 serving various locations in a region.            Upon
   receiving the control signals 23b, the transceiver 22 may process the original
   control signal 23b and relay/distribute control signals 22a from the distribution
   substation 16 to the corresponding consumers 200.                Furthermore, the
30 transceiver 22 may send monitoring signals 22b back to the operator 23 for
   feedback and better control of the distribution power grid 25. Alternatively, the
   operator 23 may send control signals 23a directly to the single phase grid
                                             7

      correction system 10 located in the premises of selected consumers 200 (or
      the control signals can be sent to selected groups of consumers 200).
      [0029]        The control signals 22a and 23a may have many parallel paths
      to each of the single phase grid correction systems 10, via known
  5   communication networks 24 such as the smart communication grid, protocols
      used by smart meters, established communication networks or various
      communication frequencies. The control signals 22a and 23a can also be
      relayed by other communication networks 24 before reaching the single
      phase grid correction systems 10. This may be accomplished using any
 10  known wired or wireless communication methods such as a mobile phone
      network, fixed telephone lines, fibre optics, the satellite network and the
      Internet.
     [0030]         Since the transmission of power at high voltages reduces the
     current on the transmission lines, power utilities prefer to transmit power at
 15  transmission line voltages in the range of 115kV to 500kV, for as long as
     possible. However, as the power lines approach residential areas, power
     utilities in North America gradually step down the voltage to 240/120V, for
     safety reasons, which increases the power losses per unit of energy
     delivered. Therefore, reactive power for correcting the power factor is best
20   introduced close to the load, since longer distance and lower voltages lead to
     higher loss. If reactive power is produced at the end loads, power generators
     11 will only have to produce and supply reactive power for voltage support,
    and not for the end load. This will increase the existing generation capabilities
    available for useful purposes, and will reduce capital costs for new power
25  generating and distribution facilities by reducing the need for them.
    [00311          Referring now to Fig. 2, a single phase grid correction system
    10, made in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
    invention, is shown connected to a single phase electrical panel 30 of a
    consumer 200, downstream from an electrical meter 29 that measures the
30  consumption of electrical power by the consumer 200. Consumers 200 may
    include residential buildings such as houses, apartments, commercial
    buildings, institutions and industrial buildings having single phase electrical
    service panels.
                                             8

    [00321        As shown, the electrical panel 30 is a 240/120V single phase
    distribution board, which receives three incoming power lines from the step
    down or drum transformer 27 wherein power lines 32 and 34 are live wires
    and line 36 is neutral. Power lines 32, 34 and 36 are connected to the main
 5  circuit breaker 37 before being distributed into branches 32a, 32b, 32c, 32d,
    34a, 34b and 34c, respectively, for connecting to various electrical loads
   within the premises of the consumer 200, 240V of electrical power can be
   obtained between the two live wires 32 and 34, while 120V of electrical power
   can be obtained between the neutral line 36 and either live wire 32 or 34.
10  Individual circuit breakers are used to protect each branch from damage
   caused by overload or short circuit. Double pole breakers 38 are provided for
   large electrical loads 49 operating at 240V, and single pole breakers 37 are
   used for small electrical loads 43 operating at 120V.
   [0033]         The electrical meter 29 measures the power usage at the entry
15 of the wires 32-36 into the premises of the consumer 200. The electrical
   meter 29 may be of any kind, including a conventional electrical meter or a
   smart meter having a transceiver for smart metering services. A smart meter
   is a metering technology that can identify power consumption in more detail
   than a conventional electrical meter, and can communicate that information
20 via a communication network back to the power utility for smart monitoring
   and billing purposes. The same communication scheme and protocol may be
   used by the power utilities to control the single phase grid correction system
   10. One such communication scheme can use a SCADA (Supervisory
   Control and Data Acquisition) system or similar art.
25 [0034]         Continuing to refer to Fig. 2, the exemplary single phase grid
   correction system 10 corrects the power factor of a consumer 200 who has a
   single phase electrical panel 30 connected to electrical loads 49 which include
   an inductive load 51. The exemplary single phase grid correction system 10
   comprises a capacitor bank 45 connected to the power lines 32c and 34c of
30 the electrical panel 30, which compensates for the inductance of any inductive
   electrical loads 49, a plurality of remotely controlled switches 42 and 44, a
   receiver 48, and a controller 47. The capacitor bank 45 includes a plurality of
   capacitors 46 connected in parallel in the capacitor bank 45. Capacitor bank
                                           9

   45 is connected directly (through a circuit breaker 38) to one power line 34a of
   the panel 30 and is connected through remotely controlled switch 44 to the
   other power line 32c. The remotely controlled switch 44 serves to connect or
   disconnect the capacitor bank 45 from the power line 32c in the panel 30.
 5 [0035]         Each of the plurality of remotely controlled switches 42 is
   connected in series to one of the electrical loads 49 (which need not be an
   inductive load) for connecting or disconnecting the load 49 from the
   corresponding power lines 32a and 32b (two exemplary loads are shown).
   The receiver 48 receives instructions from the utility operator 23 via
10 transceiver 22 or any known existing communication network 24.               The
   controller 47 receives input from the receiver 48 and outputs control signals to
   the remotely controlled switches 42 and 44.
   [0036]         The exemplary single phase grid correction system 10 allows a
   utility operator 23 to operate switches 44 to control the insertion of capacitor
15 banks 45 in the power system to compensate for the reactive power
   consumed by the inductance of inductive loads such as air conditioner 51 in
   the set of loads connected to the panel 30. The utility operator can also
   operate the remotely controlled switches 42 to switch off high energy
   consuming loads such as the air conditioner 51, or hot water heater 53 (which
20 is not inductive) to reduce overall system energy use, whether or not capacitor
   bank 45 is switched in or out.       This helps to avoid shedding load in an
   uncontrolled manner and improves the system stability.
   [0037]         To understand the operation and the effect of the capacitors 46,
   it is necessary to consider the direction of energy flow in an AC circuit, Both
25 the current and voltage waveforms are sinusoidal in a simple AC circuit
   comprising a source and a load. If the load is purely resistive, the voltage and
   current waveforms will reverse their polarities at the same time. The direction
   of energy flow will go towards the load and it is never reversed.         This is
   conventionally known as the real power (P).       However, if the load is purely
30 reactive (either inductive or capacitive), then the voltage and current
   waveforms will be 90 degrees out of phase, and zero real power will be
   provided to the load. Instead, energy will be circulating back and forth in every
   cycle    between    reactive,  capacitive and inductive sources.         This is
                                           10

    conventionally known as reactive power (Q). A large electrical load like an air
    conditioner 51 will have resistive, inductive, and capacitive components, but
    the inductive component usually predominates.         If a capacitor is placed in
    parallel with an inductive load, then the currents flowing through the inductive
 5  load will cancel, fully or partially, the current flowing through the capacitor.
    This is conventionally known as reactive power compensation, where
    capacitors are considered to generate reactive power, or provide a negative
    Q, and inductors are considered to consume reactive power, or provide a
    positive Q.
10  (0038]         In some embodiments of the present invention, each exemplary
    single phase grid correction system 10 can provide 1.54kVARs of reactive
    power, which can be activated at peak times to decrease peak inductive
    loading, or can be operated to decrease normal inductive loading. The
    capacitors 46 may be 35uF, with a current rating of 65A ("A" denotes ampere)
15 and voltage rating of 480V. However, the capacitors 46 may also be of any
   known suitable type and have various suitable capacitances, current ratings
   and voltage ratings. These sizes and ratings may depend on varying
   consumer statistics or on utility needs.
   [0039]         The receiver 48 and controller 47 may be any suitable
20 communication protocol receiver device. The receiver 48 may also be
   replaced by a transceiver 48, in order to have the capability to send
   information back to the transceiver 22 in the distribution substation 16 or the
   operator 23. Alternatively, the transceiver 48 may send information to the
   electrical meter 29 to relay it back to the operator 23, if the electrical meter 29
25 is a smart meter, or a similar device with the capability to send information
   back to the operator 23 or the distribution substation transceiver 22. Most of
   the information regarding to power flow from the distribution power grid 25 can
   be provided accurately by the distributor's existing infrastructure from smart
   meters and distribution substations monitoring, as well as any other
30 monitoring devices that may exist in the distribution power grid 25 (not shown
   in Figs. 1 and 2).
   [0040]         The remotely controlled switches 42 may comprise 30A relay
   switches and 5A relay switches, while the remotely controlled switch 44 may
                                             11

      comprise a 30A relay switch.         The remotely controlled switches can be
      electrically interlocked to allow discrete signals to control or permit power
      interruption to disconnect service.        For example, and without limitation,
      thyristors or other suitable devices that operate at various voltages may be
  5   used in the remotely controlled switches. Other suitable types of switches
     with various ampere ratings and parameters may be used. The single phase
     grid correction system 10 may also comprise a light to indicate operation
     status, and a safety disconnect such as a circuit breaker. The single phase
     grid correction system 10 may further comprise a transformer for providing a
 10  suitable voltage for charging the capacitors 46.
     [0041]          The exemplary single phase grid correction system 10 may also
     include other electronic components such as resistors for applying resistance
     upon switching in the capacitors 46 in order to lower possible transients. The
     single phase grid correction system 10 may further include a filtering system
 15  for health and power quality benefits similar to those usually used for power
     correction systems that use static capacitors. A programmable element can
     be included as part of the controller 47 in system 10 which could be
     programmed with daily or seasonal operating criteria, which could be remotely
    downloaded via receiver 48. Furthermore contingency programs could be
20   programmed inside of said programmable element that can be used in loss of
    communication with operator or any event that could arise that may create a
     requirement for local control.
    [0042]           The utility operator 23 can remotely operate the switches 42 and
    44 from afar via the receiver 48 and controller 47. The operator 23 can
25  remotely control the switches 42 to disconnect the large electrical loads 49
    (whether or not inductive), such as hot water heater 51 or air conditioner 53,
    from the power lines 32a, 34a, 32b, 34b, to reduce demand. The operator 23
    can also remotely connect the capacitor bank 45 to the power lines 32c and
    34c by operating the switch 44 in order to apply power factor correction to the
30  distribution power grid 25. Alternatively, the operator 23 can visit the physical
    site and operate the switches 42 and 44 manually, thus overriding the
    controller 47.
                                              12

   [00431          An electrical panel 30, may be coordinated with the system 10 to
   consist of one panel for the consumer 200, and another adjacent panel for
   system 10. The two panels may be attached to each other. Alternatively, a
   single panel can be used to house both the exemplary system 10 and the
 5 consumer panel 30. The capacitor bank 45 and its switch 44 to connect it to,
   or disconnect it from the grid, and also the load connect/disconnect switches
   42 and controller 47, are located at the customer's premises, and are indoors.
   This arrangement improves longevity, reliability, and serviceability.       More
   advantages of this arrangement will be discussed later in this application.
10 [0044]          The exemplary single phase grid correction system 10 is
   designed to reduce transmission losses and control demand in the distribution
   power grid 25, as well as the transmission power grid 15. The exemplary
   single phase grid correction system 10 can act at the lowest voltage point in
   an electrical power network as shown in Fig. 1, for any or all single consumers
15 200, at their 240V or word-wide equivalent single phase circuit breaker panel,
   controlled with any operator desired communication method.
   [0045]           The exemplary single phase grid correction system 10 may
   integrate symbiotically into the distribution power grid 25. A power utility can
   remotely reduce electrical loading demand by operating switches 42 to turn off
20 large electrical loads, and it can reduce distribution power losses for a power
   utility by operating switches 44. During the typical operation, the reduction of
   losses and the electrical demand may be accomplished in several different
   ways.     First, the single phase grid correction system 10 provides reactive
   power generation for inductive loads at the consumer 200 level. Secondly,
25 the single phase grid correction system 10 provides the ability to shut off
   selected large electrical loads 49 such as the hot water heater 53 during peak
   demand times when hot water is rarely needed.           Thirdly, during times of
   extreme demand, non-essential inductive loads such as air conditioners 51,
   and washing machines and the like, and also non-inductive but large and non
30 essential loads such as dryers, can be blocked from operation by operating
   both sets of switches 42, 44.          When inductive loads are blocked from
   operation, then any capacitor banks 45 which have been switched on to
   compensate for them can be switched off after the inductive loads have been
                                            13

      switched off.    This selective dropping of large electrical loads 49 (load
      rejection/shedding) can provide stability in the system and further increases
      power utility savings by allowing for dynamic phase balancing. A utility may
      choose any percentages of consumers and administer their non-essential
  5   loads in periods of high to extreme demand, or when necessary adverse
      condition require. The number of remotely controlled switches 42 and 44 in
      the single phase grid correction system 10 can vary depending on specific
      requirements.      Each of these three operations may be independently
     activated and controlled via receiver 48 and controller 47, and may use the
 10  same infrastructure and protocol used for smart metering or operator desired
     communication method.
     [0046]         At times of lower demand, a percentage of the capacitors in the
     consumer building can be used to match reactive requirements of the feeder.
     Inductive loads used in the system can source reactive power from either their
 15  panel, if active, or from a neighbor's panel. This will still save distribution
     losses as the reactive power will travel only tens of meters to the neighboring
     panels rather than tens to hundreds of kilometers to stations or generation for
     reactive power.
     [0047)         In an exemplary operation, during periods of increasing real
20   power consumption and demand for reactive power, a power utility can apply
     power factor correction by switching in the capacitors 46 for any number of
     consumers 200.       Meanwhile, the power utility can also shut down large
     electrical loads 49 such as air conditioners 51 in emergency situations to
     prevent brown outs. The utility can also apply more load rejection/shedding to
25  the higher used phases thus providing dynamic real-time phase balancing.
    This is accomplished via wide distribution of system 10 throughout the
    distribution system.
    [0048]          Placement of the single phase grid corrector system 10 at the
    electrical panel 30 after the consumer electrical meter 29 allows for dynamic
30  power factor correction on the distribution power grid and may cover 100% of
    the distribution or feeder lines, as distribution losses are greatest at lowest
    voltages. Since each individual single phase grid correction system 10 can be
    remotely controlled, trending of power consumption could be calculated to
                                            14

      determine optimal use of the device, which may allow for automated control of
      the remote control switches 42 and 44.
      [0049]       The addition of a capacitive load at the premises of the
      consumers 200 reduces the need for inductive power to be transmitted to the
  5   consumers 200. Losses in transmission lines are essentially equated to Joule
      losses. The exemplary single phase grid correction system 10 reduces the
      losses associated with delivering power to consumers 200, since electrical
     power is the product of both the current and the voltage at which the current is
     delivered.   An increase in current will lead to an increase in line losses
 10  proportional to the square of current. Essentially, power loss increases with
     current "congestion". In addition, locating the capacitor banks 45 at the
     premises of the consumers 200 can increase the stability of the grid. It is
     known that the voltage at the load end (taking transformers into account) is
     lower than that at the supply end but the load end voltage should track the
 15  supply end voltage. When the two voltages begin to increasingly diverge, the
    grid may become unstable. Providing reactive power from a source (capacitor
    banks 45) near the load end helps to alleviate the incipient instability.
    [0050]         While using the system of the present invention, a utility will
    experience savings on purchased power, a reduction in line currents, more
20  control over bus voltages and ability to balance phases. The subject system
    will also provide energy savings to utilities on total energy sales, dependant
    on the percentage of a utility's urban or rural customers, without the need for
    additional transmission infrastructure and property. The reduction in line
    current "congestion" will slow line deterioration adding extra life and thus
25  capital savings to the transmission and distribution companies.             The
    production of reactive power by this system will reduce the need for reactive
    power generation by generators, saving opportunity costs and increasing
    production capability.
    [0051]        A secondary benefit of the exemplary system arises from the
30  nature of power production, in which intermediate and peak energy demands
    in the market are currently being met by carbon emitting generating stations.
    These stations not only emit greenhouse gases but also are more costly per
    MWh to operate than are some other sources. Unfortunately, such other less
                                           15

    costly and less polluting sources may not be available to satisfy intermediate
    and peak energy demands. With the exemplary system described above, by
    reducing reactive power needs and reducing line losses, which can be a
    significant factor in intermediate and peak loading, the exemplary system 10
 5  may save on using more expensive types of power generation and may
    reduce greenhouse gas emissions by them. The exemplary system 10 may
   therefore be regarded as a "green" technology.
   [00521          Referring now to Fig. 3, the single phase grid correction systems
    10 made in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention can be
10 used to assist in power transactions regulated by the independent market
   operators (IMO) through operator control. Fig. 3 illustrates a simplified
   transmission power grid 65 comprising power generators 61a and 61b, buses
   62a, 62b and 62c, and a plurality of distribution substations 66 connected to
   buses 62a, 62b and 62c. The distribution substations 66 supply power to a
15 plurality of single phase consumers 200 utilizing a single phase grid correction
   system 10 made in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
   The consumers 200 consume both real and reactive power, while power
   generators 61a and 61b may supply real and reactive power. Buses 62a and
   62b are connected to the power generators 61a and 61b, respectively, and
20 the buses 62a, 62b and 62c are interconnected in a mesh topology.
   [0053]          In a free market power system, independent market operators
   will purchase power from the least expensive generator and transmit the
   power to other buses with more expensive generators or without a generator.
   Reactive power support is required for these transactions, since the power
25 factor of the buses for facillitating the transfer of power is not unitary. For
   example, if power from generator 61a is less expensive than power from
   generator 61b, the independent market operators will purchase more power
   from generator 61a and transmit it from bus 62a to buses 62b and 62c. In
   this exemplary scenario, generator 61a will have to increase its real power
30 output as well as reactive power output for assisting this transaction.
   However, an increase in reactive power generation at the generator will likely
   decrease the amount of real power available in reference to a typical
   generator capability curve. The problem can be solved by increasing reactive
                                            16

   power from other sources at bus 62a, in order to optimize the transaction. The
   exemplary single phase grid correction systems 10 can be operated remotely
   by an operator to aid the generation of the much needed reactive power at
   generator 61a, since reactive power can be generated by connecting the
 5 capacitor banks 45 at the individual consumers 200 that are connected to bus
   62a. Also this reactive generation applied at 62c could assist the transfer of
   power from busses 62a to 62b.           This reactive power generation at the
   consumers 200 can further allow a quantity of power to be transferred that
   would not be available from the generator's reactive production alone.
10 Furthermore, an operator can also dynamically control the exemplary single
   phase grid correction systems 10 to assist the distribution as well as the
   transmission power grid, which can benefit the power utilities, maximize the
   power transfer of transactions and power generation in generators, and
   improve overall system stability.
15 [0054]         While the foregoing description has assumed that individual
   control of the capacitor banks at each consumer's premises can be performed
   by the system operator, in most cases such individual control may be too
   costly.    Therefore, other forms of control may be used.          For example, a
   system controller 100 (Fig. 2) may be provided, located at selected
20 distribution nodes. As shown in Fig. 2, the distribution nodes which may be
   selected to accommodate the controllers can be the step-down transformers
   27. The controllers 100 can provide control signals to operate in a desired
   manner all of the switches 42, 44 located downstream from the transformers
   27.
25 [0055]         The control information according to which the controllers 100
   will operate can be supplied from the utility operator 23. The controllers can
   be operated manually or automatically. For example, they can be operated
   under a form of statistical control, by providing at the utility operator 23 a data
   memory 102, and a computer 104 (which can include the data memory 102).
30 The data memory 102 can contain information about the usage of electrical
   power, and the power factor correction needed, at times in the past when the
   operating conditions were similar to those at the current date and time, when
   correction is now needed.         The term "similar operating conditions or
                                            17

   circumstances" is intended to include for example the temperature, the time of
   day, the wind direction and speed, humidity readings, the date, the existence
   of holidays, festivals or other special events, and other factors relevant to the
   amount of electrical power which will be consumed at the current time, and
 5 how much reactive power was needed at such past time or times having
   similar operating conditions to those of the current time. The computer 104
   may obtain from known sources the current operating conditions, and it can
   then search in memory 102 to find similar operating circumstances from the
   past. The computer 104 can then determine the amount of electrical power
10 used when similar circumstances existed, and the power factor correction
   which was then needed, and the computer 104 can then determine what is
   needed at the current time (taking into account changes in the number of
   consumers and the like) and send a control signal to system controller 100.
   System controller 100 will then in turn send signals through the distribution
15 node 27 to the controllers 47 of all of the systems 10 downstream of the
   distribution node 27.
   [0056]         In the simple version described, the capacitor banks of all of the
   consumers 200 connected downstream of the distribution node 27 can be
   switched on or off simultaneously. This avoids the need for individual control
20 of each capacitor bank 45.
   [0057]        Alternatively, the controllers 47 of system 10 of each consumer
   200 can be assigned a unique identification number, which identification
   number can also be entered into the system controller 100. The system
   controller 100 may be provided with flexible control capability, so that it can
25 send control signals to each individual controller 47. While this provides for a
   very fine and flexible control, since the capacitor banks 45 can now be
   switched individually or in groups of any desired size and location, such fine
   control may be unnecessary and may be too costly.
   [0058]        It should be noted that perfection is not needed in correction of
30 the power factor.     Achieving a power factor of 0.95 or greater is usually
   considered to be adequate. To achieve a higher power factor is unnecessary
   in most cases and may require more control of the individual capacitor banks
   45.
                                           18

   [0059]        It will also be understood that the exemplary systems and
   methods described herein can be used for selectively reducing load on a grid,
   even without any power factor correction, to reduce the likelihood of sudden,
   uncontrollable load shedding by the grid. However, it is preferred that the
 5 power factor correction feature be included and used, since it substantially
   improves grid operation.
   [0060]        While the above description includes a number of exemplary
   embodiments, many modifications, substitutions, changes and equivalents will
   now occur to those of ordinary skill in the art.
10
                                           19

     CLAIMS:
      1.    A single phase grid correction system for correcting the power factor of
     an electrical power grid, said grid having an electricity supply, at least one
     transmission line connecting said supply to a distribution node, a number of
  5  feeder lines radiating from the node, a plurality of consumers connected to
     each feeder line, said consumers each having individual premises with a
     single phase consumer electrical panel therein for receiving power from the
     feeder line, said system comprising:
            a capacitor bank connected to the panel of at least a plurality of said
 10  consumers, each capacitor bank being located at a consumer's premises, and
            a remotely controlled switch connected to said capacitor bank for
     connecting or disconnecting the capacitor bank from the feeder line, said
     remotely controlled switch including a receiver for receiving instructions for
     connecting the capacitor bank to or disconnecting it from the feeder line and
 15 for operating the switch according to such instructions, said capacitor bank
     and remotely controlled switch being housed indoors inside the relevant
     consumer's premises proximate to or within said electrical panel.
    2.      A system according to claim 1 wherein said capacitor bank is contained
     in a module proximate to said electrical panel.
20  3.     A system according to claim 1 wherein said capacitor bank is mounted
    within said electrical panel.
    4.     A system according to claim 1 and having a utility operator, the utility
    operator having a controller for sending signals to cause selected capacitor
    banks to be connected to or disconnected from the grid.
25  5.     A system according to claim 4 wherein said controller includes a
    computer programmed to compare circumstances existing at the time when
    the switches are to be operated with circumstances at prior times and for
    locating similar circumstances which existed at one or more prior times, and
    for determining the power factor correction which was provided at such prior
30  time or times and for then using such information to determine the number
    and distribution of capacitor banks which if connected to the grid would supply
    reactive power sufficient to correct the power factor of the grid to a selected
                                           20

   value, and for then switching on the required number of capacitor banks at the
   locations as determined by said computer.
   6.      A system according to claim 1 and including a plurality of load
   connect/disconnect remotely controlled switches each connected to a high
 5 energy consuming load at the consumer's premises, for disconnecting loads
   at the consumer's premises to reduce power demand on said grid and thereby
   to reduce the likelihood of uncontrolled load shedding in said grid, said load
   connect/disconnect switches being housed indoors inside the relevant
   consumer's premises, said load connect/disconnect switches being located
10 proximate to or within the consumer electrical panel.
   7.      A method for correcting the power factor of an electrical power grid,
   said power grid having an electricity supply, at least one transmission line
   connecting said supply to a distribution node, a number of feeder lines
   radiating from the distribution node, each feeder line having a plurality of
15 consumers connected thereto, each consumer having premises and a single
   phase electrical panel within said premises, said method comprising:
           placing a capacitor bank proximate to or within the electrical panel of a
   selected number of said consumers' premises, wherein said selected number
   of consumers' premises are connected to a number of said feeder lines with
20 said capacitor bank being indoors at the selected number of consumers'
   premises,
           determining whether power factor correction is needed, and
           if power factor correction is needed, then controlling said capacitor
   bank to connect said capacitor bank at said selected number of consumers'
25 premises to the grid or to disconnect said capacitor bank from the grid.
   8.      A method according to claim 6 wherein said capacitor bank at said
   selected number of consumers' premises is operated to achieve a corrected
   power factor of between about 0.90 and 1.0.
   9.      A method according to claim 7 wherein the corrected power factor is
30 equal to or greater than about 0.95.
                                         21

    10.    A method according to claim 7 and including providing a plurality of
   load   connect/disconnect     remotely   controlled switches indoors      at the
   consumers' premises, connecting said load connect/disconnect switches to
   high energy consuming loads at the consumer's premises, and remotely
 5 operating the load connect/disconnect switches to disconnect selected items
   of load from the grid to reduce power demand on said grid and thereby to
   reduce the likelihood of uncontrolled load shedding in said grid.
   11.     A method for reducing load in a controlled manner in an electrical
   power grid to reduce the likelihood of uncontrolled load shedding in said grid,
10 said grid having an electricity supply, a transmission line connecting said
   supply to a distribution node, a number of feeder lines radiating from the
   distribution node, each feeder line having a plurality of consumers connected
   thereto, each consumer having premises and a single phase electrical panel
   within said premises, said method comprising:
15         selecting a set of consumers, said set comprising a number of
   consumers connected to a number of feeder lines,
           placing a plurality of remotely controlled load connect/disconnect
   switches adjacent to or within the electrical panels at the premises of said set
   of consumers with said load connect/disconnect switches being indoors at the
20 consumer's premises and being connected to high energy consuming loads at
   the consumer's premises,
           determining whether load reduction is needed, and
           if load reduction is needed, then remotely controlling said load
   connect/disconnect switches to disconnect selected items of the load at the
25 premises of said set of consumers from the grid or to reconnect them to the
   grid.
   12.     A method according to claim 11 wherein control of said load
   connect/disconnect switches is statistical control.
   13.     A method according to claim 12 wherein said statistical control
30 comprises determining relevant factors at the time when the control is to be
   exercised, finding a time or times in the past when circumstances at such time
   in the past were similar to those at the current time of control, and determining
                                          22

  how much load reduction is needed from a grid to improve the stability of the
  grid and reduce the likelihood of uncontrolled load shedding, and then using
  such information to control selected loads connect/disconnect switches to
  reduce the load on the grid.
5 14.     A method according to claim 13 wherein the similar circumstances are
  selected from at least one member of the group of factors comprising:
  temperature, wind direction and speed, time of day, date, weather forecast,
  the existence of holidays, and the existence of special events which may
  affect the use of energy on the grid.
                                        23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
