                                      ABSTRACT
          Systems and methods for stimulation of neurological tissue generate
 stimulation trains with temporal patterns of stimulation, in which the interval
 between electrical pulses (the inter-pulse intervals) changes or varies over
time. Compared to conventional continuous, high rate pulse trains having
 regular (i.e., constant) inter-pulse intervals, the non-regular (i.e., not constant)
pulse patterns or trains that embody features of the invention provide a lower
average frequency. The systems and methods for stimulation of neurological
tissue may be used to increase the efficacy of treatment in patients with
Parkinson's Disease.

                      1/35
10                      Thalamus
              14
       Globus
       Pallidus  --
  Subthalamus
        Globus
        Palidus--
                         16
                            20-
                    Fig. 1

                                        AUSTRALIA
                                     Patents Act, 1990
                                         ORIGINAL
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
 APPLICANT/S:                         Duke University
 INVENTORS:                           GRILL, Warren, M.
                                      BROCKER, David, T.
                                      BIRDNO, Merrill
ADDRESS FOR SERVICE:                  Peter Maxwell and Associates
                                      Level 6
                                     60 Pitt Street
                                      SYDNEY NSW 2000
INVENTION TITLE:                     NON-REGULAR ELECTRICAL
                                     STIMULATION PATTERNS FOR
                                     IMPROVED EFFICIENCY IN TREATING
                                     PARKINSON'S DISEASE
DIVISIONAL OF:                       AU - 2013 378 777- 17 June 2013
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method
of performing it known to us:
                                              1
m:\docs\20131 117\534633.doc

                                                TITLE
      NON-REGULAR ELECTRICAL STIMULATION PATTERNS FOR IMPROVED
                    EFFICIENCY IN TREATING PARKINSON'S DISEASE
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
  [0001] This application is a continuation in part of co-pending United States Patent Application
  Serial No. 13/770,73 1, filed February 19, 2013, and entitled "Non-Regular Electrical Stimulation
 Patterns for Treating Neurological Disorders," which claimed priority to United States
 Provisional Application Serial No. 61/600,264, entitled "Non-Regular Electrical Stimulation
 Patterns for Treating Neurological Disorders, filed on February 17, 2012, and which is a
 continuation in part of United States Patent Application Serial No. 12/587,295, filed October 5,
 2009, and entitled "Non-Regular Electrical Stimulation Patterns for Treating Neurological
 Disorders," now United States Patent No. 8,447,405, which claimed the benefit of United States
 Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/102,575, filed October 3, 2008, and entitled
 "Stimulation Patterns For Treating Neurological Disorders Via Deep Brain Stimulation," all of
 which are hereby incorporated in their entirety by reference.
 100021 This application also claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application
 Serial No. 61/660,672, filed June 15, 2012, and entitled "Improved Efficacy of Temporally Non
 Regular Deep Brain Stimulation in Parkinson's Disease," which is hereby incorporated in its
entirety by reference,
                                      FIELD OF INVENTION
[0003] This invention relates to systems and methods for stimulating nerves in animals,
including humans.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0004] Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) has been found to be successful in treating a variety of
brain-controlled disorders, including movement disorders. Generally, such treatment involves
placement of a DBS type lead into a targeted region of the brain through a burr hole drilled in the
                                              IC_

    patient's skull, and the application of appropriate stimulation through the lead to the targeted
    region
    100051 Presently, in DBS, beneficial (symptom-relieving) effects are observed primarily at high
    stimulation frequencies above 100 Hz that are delivered in stimulation patterns or trains in which
   the interval between electrical pulses (the inter-pulse intervals) is constant over time. The
   beneficial effects of DBS on motor symptoms are only observed at high frequencies, while low
   frequency stimulation has generally been thought to exacerbate symptoms. For instance,
   thalamic DBS at less than or equal to 50 Hz has been shown to increase tremor in patients with
   essential tremor. Similarly, 50 Hz DBS has been shown to produce or induce tremor in pain
   patients receiving simulation of the ventral posterior medial nucleus of the thalamus (VPM), but
   the tremor disappears when the frequency is increased. Likewise, DBS of the subthalamic
   nucleus (STN) at 10 Hz has been shown to worsen akinesia in patients with Parkinson's Disease
   (PD), while DBS at 130 Hz leads to significant improvement in motor function, Similarly,
   relatively high frequency stimulation of the globus pallidus (GP) at or above 130 Hz has been
  shown to improve dystonia, whereas stimulation at either 5 or 50 Hz may lead to significant
  worsening.
  [0006] Model studies also indicate that the masking of pathological burst activity occurs only
  with sufficiently high stimulation frequencies. Responsiveness of tremor to changes in DBS
  amplitude and frequency are strongly correlated with the ability of applied stimuli to mask
  neuronal bursting.
  [0007] Although effective, conventional high frequency stimulation generates stronger side
 effects than low frequency stimulation, and the therapeutic window between the voltage that
 generates the desired clinical effect(s) and the voltage that generates undesired side effects
 decreases with increasing frequency. Precise lead placement therefore becomes important.
 Further, high stimulation      frequencies increase power consumption. The need for higher
 frequencies and increased power consumption shortens the useful lifetime and/or increases the
 physical size of battery-powered implantable pulse generators. The need for higher frequencies
 and increased power consumption requires a larger battery size, and/or frequent charging of the
battery, if the battery is rechargeable, or replacement of the battery if it is not rechargeable.
{0008] The motor symptoms of PD are treated with high frequency deep brain stimulation (OBS)
in the internal segment of the globes pallidus (GPi) or subthalamic nucleus (STN). The efficacy
of DBS for PD is sensitive to the stimulation parameters, with high frequency (>100Hz) DBS
being more efficacious than low frequency (<100 Hz) stimulation. The frequency-dependent
efficacy of DBS is a key element for the proposed mechanisms of OBS, including: stimulation
induced regularization of pathological neuronal activity, and silencing of the stimulated neurons
                                               2

    The efficacy of OBS is also dependent on the amplitude, polarity, pulse width, and pattern of
    stimulation. However, the temporal pattern of stimulation stands out as a potentially important
    parameter space that has not been fully explored.
    (00091 Non-regular temporal patterns of stimulation provide a means to probe the mechanisms
    of OBS, and could potentially be used to expand the therapeutic efficacy of DBS. Random
   patterns of stimulation are less effective at suppressing motor symptoms than regular stimulation
   in patients with essential tremor (ET) and PD. In patients with ET, non-regular stimulation
   patterns are less effective at suppressing tremor than temporally regular stimulation because
   sufficiently long gaps in the stimulation train allow pathological activity to propagate through the
   stimulated nucleus. However, the features of non-regular stimulation patterns that influence
   clinical efficacy in PD are unknown,
                                               SUMMARY
   (0010] The invention provides stimulation patterns or trains with different temporal patterns of
   stimulation than conventional stimulation trains. The invention also provides methodologies to
  identify and characterize stimulation patterns or trains that produce desired or greater relief of
  symptoms and/or reducing the average stimulation frequency. The invention also provides a
  neural stimulation device to transmit stimulation patterns or trains for the improved efficacy in
  treating PD.
  [00111 According to one aspect of the invention, the intervals between stimulation pulses in a
  pulse pattern or train (in shorthand called "the inter-pulse intervals") is not constant over time,
  but changes or varies over time. These patterns or trains are consequently called in shorthand
  "non-regular." According to this aspect of the invention, the non-regular (i.e., not constant) pulse
 patterns or trains may provide a lower average frequency for a given pulse pattern or train,
 compared to conventional continuous, high rate pulse trains having regular (i.e., constant) inter
 pulse intervals. The non-regular stimulus patterns or trains may make possible an increase in the
 efficacy of stimulation by reducing the intensity of side effects; by increasing the dynamic range
 between the onset of the desired clinical effect(s) and side effects (and thereby reducing
 sensitivity to the position of the lead electrode); and may decrease power consumption, thereby
providing a longer useful battery life and/or a smaller implantable pulse generator, allowing
battery size reduction and/or, for rechargeable batteries, longer intervals between recharging.
 [0012] The non-regular stimulation patterns or trains can be readily applied to deep brain
stimulation, to treat a variety of neurological disorders, such as PD, movement disorders,
epilepsy, and psychiatric disorders such as obsessive-compulsion disorder and depression. The
non-regular stimulation patterns or trains can also be readily applied to other classes electrical
stimulation of the nervous system including, but not limited to, comical stimulation, spinal cord
                                                3

    stimulation, and peripheral nerve stimulation (including sensory and motor), to provide the
    attendant benefits described above and to treat diseases such as but not limited to PD, essential
   tremor, movement disorders, dystonia, epilepsy, pain, psychiatric disorders such as obsessive
   compulsive disorder, depression, and Tourette's Syndrome.
   [0013J According to another aspect of the invention, systems and methodologies make it
   possible to determine the effects of the temporal pattern of DBS on simulated and measured
   neuronal activity, as well as motor symptoms in both animals and humans. The methodologies
   make possible the qualitative determination of the temporal features of stimulation trains.
   [0014] The systems and methodologies described herein employ a genetic algorithm, coupled to
   a computational model of DDS of the STN, to develop non-regular patterns of stimulation that
  produced efficacy (as measured by a low error function, E often at lower stimulation frequencies,
  F than conventional regular deep brain stimulation. The error function, E, is a quantitative
  measure from the model which assesses how faithfully the thalamus transmitted motor
  commands that are generated by inputs from the cortex. A very high correlation exists between E
  and symptoms in persons with PD, and therefore E is a valid predictor for the efficacy of a
  stimulation train in relieving symptoms.
  [0015] Previous efforts sought to design stimulation trains that minimized the total current
  injection. The systems and methodologies disclosed herein include an objective function that
 maximizes therapeutic benefit (by minimizing the error function) and may improve stimulation
 efficiency (by reducing the average stimulation frequency below that of the optimal conventional
 (regularly timed) stimulation), using a model of the STN, GPi, and GPe (external globus
 pallidus) that reproduces the frequency tuning of symptom reduction that has been documented
 clinically. In contrast, a first model showed, incorrectly, symptom reduction with regular, low
 frequency stimulation. The inventors have identified novel non-regular temporal patterns of
 stimulation, while the first model identified regular low frequency (- 10 Hz) trains that previous
clinical work has demonstrated to be ineffective.
 f0016] A neural stimulation device may include a pulse generator configured to transmit a first
temporal pattern of stimulation for application to neurological tissue having a first non-regular
pulse train, the first non-regular pulse train including a first plurality of single pulses (first
singlets) and embedded first multiple pulse groups (first n-lets), with non-regular inter-pulse
intervals between the first singlets and first u-lets, as well as non-regular inter-pulse intervals
within the first n-lets themselves. The pulse generator may also be configured to transmit a
second temporal pattern of stimulation for application to neurological tissue having a second
non-regular pulse train, the second non-regular pulse train including a second plurality of single
pulses (second singlets) and embedded second multiple pulse groups (second n-lets), with non
                                              4

   regular inter-pulse intervals between second singlets and second n-lets, as well as non-regular
   inter-pulse intervals within the second n-lets themselves, the second temporal pattern adapted
   from applying a model-based optimization technique after application of the first temporal
   pattern of stimulation.
   [0017] A method for stimulation of a targeted neurological tissue region may include the steps of
   applying electrical current to a targeted neurological tissue region of an animal using a pulse
   generator according to a first non-regular pulse train including a first plurality of single pulses
  (first singlets) and embedded first multiple pulse groups (first n-lets), with non-regular inter
  pulse intervals between the first singlets and first n-lets, as well as non-regular inter-pulse
  intervals within the first n-lets themselves, and analyzing results of the first non-regular pulse
  train. The method may further include the steps of applying a model-based optimization
  technique determining a second non-regular pulse trains including a second plurality of single
  pulses (second singlets) and embedded second multiple pulse groups (second n-lets), with non
  regular inter-pulse intervals between second singlets and second n-lets, as well as non-regular
  inter-pulse intervals within the second n-lets themselves, and applying electrical current to the
 targeted neurological tissue region of the animal using the pulse generator according to the
 second non-regular pulse train.
  [0018] The neural stimulation device of the invention may include a pulse generator configured
 to apply a first non-regular pulse train, having at least one first singlet spaced apart by a first
 inter-pulse singlet interval and at least one first n-let having, for each n-let, two or more pulses
 spaced apart by a first inter-pulse interval that is less than the first singlet inter-pulse interval.
 The pulse generator may also be configurable to apply a second non-regular pulse train, having
 at least one second singlet spaced apart by a second inter-pulse singlet interval and at least one
 second n-let having, for each n-let, two or more pulses spaced apart by a second inter-pulse
 interval that is less than the second singlet inter-pulse interval, the second non-regular pulse trail
based upon an analysis of the first non-regular pulse train. The neural stimulation device may
also include at least one input configured to operatively connect with at least one electrode to
record neural activity (e.g., Beta Band Power).
[00191 The neural stimulation device may be used to apply different temporal patterns of
stimulation to humans with PD to determine which features of non-regular stimulation cause it to
be less effective than temporally regular stimulation. Certain non-regular patterns of stimulation
significantly improve performance on a simple motor task as compared to regular stimulation. A
computational model of DBS in the basal ganglia shows that efficacy of various stimulation
patterns relate to their ability to suppress pathological oscillations in the beta frequency range.
                                               5

    These results highlight the potential importance of this heretofore unexplored parameter space as
   a means to enhance the efficacy of DBS for the treatment of PD.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0020j Operation- of the invention may be better understood by reference to the detailed
   description taken in connection with the following illustrations, wherein:
   [00211 Figure   1 is an anatomic view of a system for stimulating tissue of the central nervous
   system that includes an lead implanted in brain tissue coupled to a pulse generator that is
  programmed to provide non-regular (i.e., not constant) pulse patterns or trains, in which the
  interval between electrical pulses (the inter-pulse intervals) changes or varies over time.
   [0022] Figure 2 is a diagrammatic trace that shows a conventional regular high frequency
  stimulation train, in which the interval between electrical pulses (the inter-pulse intervals) is
  constant.
  [0023] Figure 3 is a diagrammatic trace showing a representative example of a repeating non
  regular pulse pattern or train in which the inter-pulse intervals are linearly cyclically ramped over
  time.
  [0024] Figures 4 and 5 are diagrammatic traces showing other representative examples of
 repeating non-regular pulse patterns or trains comprising within, a single pulse train, a
 combination of single pulses (singlets) and embedded multiple pulse groups (n-lets), with non
 regular inter-pulse intervals between singlets and n-lets as well as non-regular inter-pulse
 intervals within the multiple pulse n-lets.
 [00251 Figure 6 is a reproduction of Example Figure 1, as described below.
 10026] Figure 7 is a reproduction of Example Figure 2, as described below.
 [0027] Figure 8 is a reproduction of Example Figure 3, as described below.
 [0028] Figure 9 is a reproduction of Example Figure 4, as described below.
 [0029] Figure 10 is a reproduction of Example Figure 5, as described below.
 [0030] Figure 11 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalamic
nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
model of a healthy human.
[00311 Figure 12 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalamic
nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
model of a human having a neurological condition, such as PD.
[0032] Figure 13 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalamic
nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
model of an electrical deep brain stimulation of regular interval applied to the subthalamic
nucleus at 45 Hertz.
                                               6

   [0033] Figure 14 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalarnic
   nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
   model of an electrical deep brain stimulation of regular interval applied to the subthalamic
   nucleus at 100 Hertz.
   [0034] Figure 15 is a plot of a computer-generated error fraction of a regular interval electrical
   DBS applied at the given average frequency.
   [0035] Figure 16 diagrammatically illustrates an embodiment of a computer model that may be
  used to analyze and generate stimulation patterns according to the present invention.
  100361 Figure 17 is a diagram of a general genetic algorithm process.
  [0037] Figure 18 is an embodiment of a generational crossover of stimulation patterns according
  to the present invention.
  100381 Figure 19 is a plot of a percent decrease cost function versus the number of generations
  run in an evolutionary algorithm according to the present invention.
  10039] Figure 20 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalamic
 nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
 model of an electrical deep brain stimulation applied to the subthalamic nucleus according to a
 first embodiment of a stimulation pattern according to the present invention.
  [0040] Figure 21 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalamic
 nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
 model of an electrical deep brain stimulation applied to the subthalamic nucleus according to a
 second embodiment of a stimulation pattern according to the present invention.
 [00411 Figure 22 is a raster of the neuronal firings of ten neurons in each of the subthalarnic
nucleus, the global pallidus exterior, and the global pallidus interior, generated by a computer
model of an electrical deep brain stimulation applied to the subthalamic nucleus according to a
third embodiment of a stimulation pattern according to the present invention.
[0042] Figure 23 is Figure 15, further including a plot of the computer modeled error fractions
generated by the use of the stimulation patterns of Figures 20-22.
[0043] Figure 24 is a graph of a quantitative measurement of the performance of the stimulation
pattern of Figure 20 as compared to other stimulation patterns in two human patients which had
been diagnosed with PD.
[0044] Figure 25 is a graph of a quantitative measurement of the performance of the stimulation
pattern of Figure 20 as compared to other stimulation patterns in a human patient which had been
diagnosed with PD and had tremor as a primary motor impairment related thereto.
                                              7

    [0045] Figure 26 includes graphs in the frequency domain of an average power of ten GPi
    neuronal firing sequences across a single iteration of the indicated stimulation, where such
    sequences were computer model generated.
    [00461 Figure 27 is a tuning curve indicating the average power of ten GPi neuronal firing
   sequences across ten iterations of the indicated stimulation, where such sequences were
   computer model generated,
   [0047] Figure 28A is a graphical representation of a measure of an experimental tremor during a
   trial.
   [0048] Figure 28B is a graphical representation of amplitude of tremors with a power spectral
   density calculated for each of the measured amplitudes.
   [0049] Figure 29A is a diagrammatic trace that shows a temporal pattern of DBS with
  instantaneous pulse frequency (IPF) values and ranges labeled.
   100501 Figure 29B is a representation of an intraoperative experiment timeline.
  [0051] Figure 29C is a representation of motor performance as quantified during an alternating
  click task on a two-button computer mouse using a measure of tap duration (Dur) variability.
  100521 Figure 29D is a representation of the structure of the computational model of the basal
  ganglia, which exhibited oscillatory activity in the beta frequency range.
  [0053] Figure 30A is a diagrammatic trace that compares Baseline (DBS off) finger tapping to
  finger taping during DBS.
  [0054] Figure 30B is a graphic representation showing mean + s.e.m. log-transformed
 coefficient of variation of tap durations (log CV Duration) across all stimulation conditions.
  [0055] Figure 3 IA is a graphical representation showing motor performance during stimulation
 is weakly correlated with motor performance during the preceding stimulation off-period.
 [0056] Figure 310 is a graphical representation showing that motor performance during
 stimulation is significantly correlated with motor performance during the following stimulation
 off-period.
 [00571 Figure 32A is a graphical representation showing mean + s.e.m. log-transformed
coefficient of variation of the intervals between taps (log CV Interval) across all stimulation
conditions.
[0058] Figure 32B is a graphical representation showing of mean + s.c.m. log-transformed
number of clicks per 20 s data collection epoch across stimulation conditions,
[0059] Figure 33A is a graphical representation showing the effects of bursts, pauses, and
irregularity in the stimulation patterns with respect to log CV Duration.
100601 Figure 33B is a graphical representation showing the effects of bursts, pauses, and
irregularity in the stimulation patterns with respect to log CV Interval.
                                               8

    [0061] Figure 33C is a graphical representation showing the effects of bursts, pauses, and
    irregularity in the stimulation patterns with respect to tapping rate.
    100621 Figure 34A is a spectrogram showing OPi spike times from the computational model of
    the basal ganglia in the PD state across stimulation conditions.
    [00631 Figure 34B is a graphical representation showing that a log-transformed time-integral of
   the average GPi spike time peak power density in the beta frequency range across stimulation
   conditions is strongly correlated with log CV Duration.
   {0064] Figure 34C is a graphical representation showing that a log-transformed time-integral of
   the average GPi spike time peak power density in the beta frequency range across stimulation
   conditions is strongly correlated with log CV Duration.
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   100651 Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the present
   invention, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It is to be
  understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional changes may be
  made without departing from the respective scope of the invention. Moreover, features of the
  various embodiments may be combined or altered without departing from the scope of the
  invention. As such, the following description is presented by way of illustration only and should
  not limit in any way the various alternatives and modifications that may be made to the
  illustrated embodiments and still be within the spirit and scope of the invention.
  190661 Figure 1 is a system 10 for stimulating tissue of the central nervous system. The system
 may include a lead 12 placed in a desired position in contact with central nervous system tissue,
 In the illustrated embodiment, the lead 12 may be implanted in a region of the brain, such as the
 thalamus, subthalamus, or globes pallidus for the purpose of deep brain stimulation. However, it
 should be understood, the lead 12 may be implanted in, on, or near the spinal cord; or in, on, or
 near a peripheral nerve (sensory or motor) for the purpose of selective stimulation to achieve a
 therapeutic purpose.
 [00671 The distal end of the lead 12 may carry one or more electrodes 14 to apply electrical
pulses to the targeted tissue region. The electrical pulses may be supplied by a pulse generator 16
coupled to the lead 12.
[0068] In the illustrated embodiment, the pulse generator 16 may be implanted in a suitable
location remote from the lead 12, e.g., in the shoulder region. It should be appreciated, however.
that the pulse generator 16 may be placed in other regions of the body, i.e., implanted in any
suitable location, or externally.
                                                 9

   [0069] When implanted, the case of the pulse generator 16 may serve as a reference or return
   electrode. Alternatively, the lead 12 may include a reference or return electrode (comprising a bi
  polar arrangement), or a separate reference or return electrode may be implanted or attached
  elsewhere on the body (comprising a mono-polar arrangement),
  [0070] The pulse generator 16 may include an on-board, programmable microprocessor 18,
  which carries embedded code. The code may express pre-programmed rules or algorithms under
  which a desired electrical stimulation waveform pattern or train is generated and distributed to
  the electrode(s) 14 on the lead 12. According to these programmed rules, the pulse generator 16
  may direct the prescribed stimulation waveform patterns or trains through the lead 12 to the
  electrode(s) 14, which serve to selectively stimulate the targeted tissue region. The code may be
  preprogrammed by a clinician to achieve the particular physiologic response desired.
  100711 In the illustrated embodiment, an on-board battery 20 may supply power to the
  microprocessor 18. Currently, batteries 20 must be replaced every I to 9 years, depending on the
 stimulation parameters needed to treat a disorder. When the battery life ends, the replacement of
 batteries requires another invasive surgical procedure to gain access to the implanted pulse
 generator. As will be described, the system 10 makes possible, among its several benefits, an
 increase in battery life.
 10072] The stimulation waveform pattern or train generated by the pulse generator differs from
 convention pulse patterns or trains in that the waveform comprises repeating non-regular (i.e.,
 not constant) pulse patterns or trains, in which the interval between electrical pulses (the inter
 pulse intervals or IPI) changes or varies over time. Examples of these repeating non-regular
 pulse patterns or trains are shown in Figures 3 to 5. Compared to conventional pulse trains
 having regular (i.e., constant) inter-pulse intervals (as shown in Figure 2), the non-regular (i.e.,
 not constant) pulse patterns or trains provide a lower average frequency for a given pulse pattern
 or train, where the average frequency for a given pulse train (expressed in hertz or Hz) is defined
as the sum of the inter-pulse intervals for the pulse train in seconds (ihp,) divided by the number
of pulses (n) in the given pulse train, or (Zj)/n. A lower average frequency makes possible a
reduction in the intensity of side effects, as well as an increase in the dynamic range between the
onset of the desired clinical effect(s) and side effects, thereby increasing the clinical efficacy and
reducing sensitivity to the position of the electrode(s). A lower average frequency brought about
by a non-regular pulse pattern or train also leads to a decrease in power consumption, thereby
prolonging battery life and reducing battery size.
[0073] The repeating non-regular (i.e., not constant) pulse patterns or trains can take a variety of
different forms. For example, as will be described in greater detail later, the inter-pulse intervals
                                               10

    can be linearly cyclically ramped over time in non-regular temporal patterns (growing larger
    and/or smaller or a combination of each over time); or be periodically embedded in non-regular
    temporal patterns comprising clusters or groups of multiple pulses (called n-lets), wherein n is
   two or more. For example, when n=2, the n-let can be called a doublet; when n=3, the n-Iet can
   be called a triplet; when n-4, the n-let can be called a quadlet; and so on. The repeating non
   regular pulse patterns or trains can comprise combinations of single pulses (called singlets)
   spaced apart by varying non-regular inter-pulse intervals and n-lets interspersed among die
   singlets, the n-lets themselves being spaced apart by varying non-regular inter-pulse intervals
   both between adjacent n-lets and between the n pulses embedded in the n-let. If desired, the non
   regularity of the pulse pattern or train can be accompanied by concomitant changes in waveform
   and/or amplitude, and/or duration in each pulse pattern or train or in successive pulse patterns or
   trains.
   [0074] Each pulse comprising a singlet or imbedded in an n-let in a given train comprises a
  waveform that can be monophasic, biphasic, or multiphasic. Each waveform possesses a given
  amplitude (expressed, e.g., in amperes) that can, by way of example, range from 10 pa (E-) to 10
  ma (E-'). The amplitude of a given phase in a waveform can be the same or differ among the
  phases. Each waveform also possesses a duration (expressed, e.g., in seconds) that can, by way
  of example, range from 10 ps (E6) to 2 ms (E-). The duration of the phases in a given waveform
 can likewise be the same or different. It is emphasized that all numerical values expressed herein
 are given by way of example only. They can be varied, increased or decreased, according to the
 clinical objectives.
 [0075] When applied in deep brain stimulation, it is believed that repeating stimulation patterns
 or trains applied with non-regular inter-pulse intervals can regularize the output of disordered
 neuronal firing, to thereby prevent the generation and propagation of bursting activity with a
 lower average stimulation frequency than required with conventional constant frequency trains,
 i.e., with a lower average frequency than about 100 Hz, and/or greater treatment efficacy than
can otherwise be achieved with conventional constant frequency trains. Figure 3 shows a
representative example of a repeating non-regular pulse pattern or train in which the inter-pulse
intervals are linearly cyclically ramped over time. The inter-pulse intervals can vary within a
specified range selected based upon clinical objections, e.g., not to exceed 25 ms, or not to
exceed 100 ms, or not to exceed 200 ms, to take into account burst responses and subsequent
disruption of thalamic fidelity. The non-regular pulse trains repeat themselves for a clinically
appropriate period of time, i.e., as long as the treatment is desired and effective.
                                               11

    [0076] Figures 4 and 5 show other representative examples of repeating non-regular pulse
   patterns or trains, The pulse trains in Figures 4 and 5 comprise within, a single pulse train, a
   combination of single pulses (singlets) and embedded multiple pulse groups (n-lets), with non
   regular inter-pulse intervals between singlets and n-lets, as well as non-regular inter-pulse
   intervals within the n-lets themselves. The non-regular pulse trains repeat themselves for a
   clinically appropriate period of time.
   [0077] The non-regular pulse train can be characterized as comprising one or more singlets
   spaced apart by a minimum inter-pulse singlet interval and one or more n-lets comprising, for
   each n-let, two or more pulses spaced apart by an inter-pulse interval (called the "n-let inter
  pulse interval") that is less than the minimum singlet inter-pulse intervaL The n-let inter-pulse
  interval can itself vary within the train, as can the interval between successive n-lets or a
  successive n-lets and singlets. The non-regular pulse trains comprising singlets and n-lets repeat
  themselves for a clinically appropriate period of time.
  [0078] In Figure 4, each pulse train comprises four singlets in succession (with non-regular
  inter-pulse intervals there between); followed by four doublets in succession (with non-regular
  inter-doublet pulse intervals there between and non-regular inter-pulse intervals within each n
  let); followed by a singlet, three doublets, and a singlet (with non-regular inter- pulse intervals
 there between and non-regular inter-pulse intervals within each n-let). The temporal pattern of
 this pulse train repeats itself in succession for a clinically appropriate period of time. The non
 regular temporal pulse pattern shown in Figure 4 has an average frequency of 67.82 Hz without
 loss of efficacy, as is demonstrated in the following Example, Batch 17.
 [0079] In Figure 5, each pulse train comprises four singlets in succession (with non-regular
 inter-pulse intervals there between); followed by three doublets in succession (with non-regular
 inter-doublet pulse intervals there between and non-regular inter-pulse intervals within each n
 let). The temporal pattern of this pulse train repeats itself in succession for a clinically
 appropriate period of time. The non-regular temporal pulse pattern shown in Figure 5 has an
 average frequency of 87.62 Hz without loss of efficacy, as is demonstrated in the following
Example, Batch 18.
[00801 The following Example illustrates a representative methodology for developing and
identifying candidate non-regular stimulation trains as shown in Figures 3 to 5 that achieve
comparable or better efficacy at a lower average frequency (i.e., more efficiency) than constant
inter-pulse interval trains or better efficacy at the same average frequency than constant inter
pulse interval trains.
                                              12

    EXAMPLE
    [00811 Computational models of thalamic DBS and subthalarnic DBS can be used with genetic
    algorithm-based optimization (GA) to design non-regular stimulation patterns or trains that
    produce desired relief of symptoms with a lower average stimulation frequency than regular,
    high-rate stimulation and/or greater relief of symptoms.
    10082] In the GA implementation, the stimulus train pattenm) is the chromosome of the
    organism, and each gene in the chromosome is the IP1 between two successive pulses in the
   train. The implementation can start, e.g., with trains of 21 pulses (20 genes) yielding a train
   length of -400 ms (at average frequency of 50 Hz), and the 6 s trains required for stimulation are
   built by serial concatenation of 15 identical pulse trains. The process can start with an initial
   population of, e.g., 50 organisms, constituted of random TPl's drawn from a uniform distribution.
   At each step (generation) of the GA, the fitness of each pulse train is evaluated using either the
   TC or basal ganglia network model (identified above) and calculating a cost function, C. From
   each generation, the 10 best stimulus trains (lowest C) are selected, to be carried forward to the
   next generation. They will also be combined (mated) and random variations (mutations)
  introduced into the 40 offspring, yielding 50 trains in each generation. This process assures that
  the best stimulation trains (traits) are carried through to the next generation, while avoiding local
  minima (i.e., mating and mutations preserve genetic diversity), The GA continues through
  successive generations until the median and minimum values of the cost function reach a plateau,
  and this will yield candidate trains.
  [0083] The objective is to find patterns of non-constant inter-pulse interval deep brain
 stimulation trains that provide advantageous results, as defined by low frequency and low error
 rate, i.e., low symptoms and/or secondarily a low average frequency. An error function is
 desirably created that assigns the output of each temporal pattern of stimulation a specific error
 fraction (E) based on how the voltage output of the thalamic cells correspond to the timing of the
 input stimulus. Using this error fraction, a cost function (C) is desirably created to minimize both
 frequency and error fraction and/or frequency, according to representative equation C = W*E +
 K*f, where C is the cost, E is the error fraction, f is the average frequency of the temporal pattern
of stimulation, W is an appropriate weighting factor for the error function, and K is an
appropriate weighting factor for the frequency. The weighting factors W and K allow
quantitative differentiation between efficacy (E) and efficiency (f) to generate patterns of non
constant inter-pulse interval deep brain stimulation trains that provide advantageous results with
superior reduction of symptoms at comparable or lower average frequencies, compared to
conventional constant frequency pulse trains.
                                                 13

    (0084] With this cost function, the voltage output of several candidate temporal patterns of
    stimulation can be evaluated and the cost calculated. Temporal patterns of stimulation with a low
   cost can then be used to create new temporal patterns of similar features in an attempt to achieve
   even lower costs. In this way, new temporal patterns of stimulation can be "bred" for a set
   number of generations and the best temporal patterns of stimulation of each batch recorded.
   [0085] Several batches of the genetic algorithm yields useful results in that they achieve lower
   costs than the corresponding constant frequency DBS waveforms. Some batches may be run in
   an attempt to find especially low frequency and/or high efficacy temporal patterns of stimulation,
   by changing the cost function to weight frequency and/or fractional error (E) more heavily, or
  vice versa (i.e., by changing W and/or K). These batches can also yield lower cost results than
  the constant-frequency waveforms.
  [00861 By way of example, a total of 14 batches of the genetic algorithm were run and evaluated
  with various cost functions and modified initial parameters.
  100871 Before the trials were run, a baseline was established by running constant-frequency
  patterns of stimulation through the model and analyzing the associated error fractions (Example
  Figure 1). As can be seen from Example Figure 1 (Figure 6), the healthy condition produced a
  low error fraction of 0.1 while the Parkinsonian condition without DBS yielded a higher error
 fraction of 0.5. From these results, constant high-frequency patterns of stimulation ranging from
  100-200 Hz gave near perfect results. Novel non-constant temporal patterns of stimulation would
 then be considered advantageous if they showed error fractions very close to 0.1 with average
 frequencies less than  100-200 Iz,
 [0088] The first set of batches was run by minimizing only the error fraction (E). Thus, the
 associated cost function was simply C = E. The results are summarized according to average
 frequency and error fraction (Example Table      1). The associated inter-pulse intervals (IPI's) can
be seen in Example Figure 2 (Figure 7). Batch 3 outputted an error fraction 0.054. Another
feature is that the IP's in Batch 3 gradually increased until about 40 msec, and then repeated
itself This provides support that ramp trains are advantageous. The trace shown in Figure 3
generally incorporates the temporal features of Batch 3.
[0089] The remaining batches yielded error fractions higher than 0.1 and were no better than the
150 Hz constant-frequency case.
Example Table 1: Error Fraction Only, C = E
       _Average Frequency          Error Fraction                    IPI Length
 3      127.5                      0.054                             5
                                              14

          95.62                      0.162                             39
     5    113,6                      0.139                             13
     6    94.64                      0.132                            26
     7    101.6                      0.142                            31
   100901 Because many batches were yielding error fractions above 0.1 (healthy condition), and
   only a small window of error fraction less than the 150 Hz DBS case would be useful, a new cost
   function was constructed to minimize an alternate feature of the temporal patterns of stimulation;
   namely, frequency. This new cost function weighted the error fraction and frequency, yielding
   the equation C = 1000*E + F, where C is cost, E is error fraction, and F is the average frequency
   of the waveform in Hz, W = 1000, and K=1.
   10091] In order to establish a new baseline cost, the constant-frequency patterns of stimulation
  were evaluated again according to the new cost function (Example Figure 3 - Figure 8). As can
  be seen from the graph, the healthy condition reported a cost of 90.65 and the Parkinson case
  with no DBS yielded 505.50. The best constant-frequency pattern of stimulation with the new
  cost function was the 100 Hz case with a cost of 231.11, This new cost function allowed for a
  wider range of solutions, because a temporal pattern of stimulation would be considered useful if
  it had a cost less than 231.11 but presumably higher than 90.65.
  100921 The results of the new cost function can be seen in Example Table 2 and the IPJ's
 visualized in Example Figure 4 (Figure 9). The best results were seen in batches 15 and 18,
 which had the lowest costs. Batch 18 also exhibits a ramp-like pattern of increasing interpulse
 intervals. It shows a steadily falling IPI, followed by a sudden rise, and then a quick fall, rise,
 and fall-almost as if it consists of 3 smaller ramps. The trace shown in Figure 5 generally
 incorporates the temporal features of Batch 18. Batch 15 also performed very well, but its
qualitative features are more difficult to discern.
Example Table 2: Cost Function, C -      1000*E + F
#                      Average             IP Length         Error Fraction        Cost
                       Frequency
9                      94.74               34                0.124                218.8
13                     132.9               12                0.087                219.4
15                     98.00               17                0.098                 196.0
18                     81.28               10                0.116                 197.3
19                     84.70               20                0.116                201.2
                                              15

    [0093] The advantage of low frequency was emphasized with a new cost function, which
    weighted frequency more heavily, C = 1000*E + 2*F. Because the frequency of DBS does not
    affect the healthy condition or the PD with no DBS, these baseline costs stayed the same at 90.65
    and 505.50, respectively. The 100 Hz was again the best constant-frequency temporal pattern of
    stimulation, with a cost of 331.1]. The following temporal patterns of stimulation, then, were
    considered useful if they had low frequencies and costs less than 33 1.1 1 and greater than 90.65.
    100941 The results of the revised cost function can be seen in Example Table 3 and the IP's
   visualized in Example Figure 5 (Figure 10). Of the resulting batches, batch 17 proved most
   interesting because of its very low average frequency of 67.82 Hz. Even with such a low
   frequency, it managed to prove better than the 100 Hz condition with a reduction in cost of about
   10. Tbe waveform of batch 17 is interesting in that it consists of a ramp pattern of decreasing IPI
   in the first 100 msec, followed by a continual shift between large IPI and small IPI. The
   qualitative feature of quickly changing between large and small IP's may prove advantageous.
   The trace shown in Figure 4 generally incorporates the temporal features of Batch 17.
   Example Table 3: Revised Cost Function, Cost = 1000*E + 2*F
  #                    Average              IPI Length          Error Fraction       Cost
                       Frequency
   16                  84.92                47                 0.239                 323.8
   17                  67.82                20                 0.253                 321]
  20                   79.25                10                 0.236                 315.4
  21                   77.15                20                 0.269                 346.6
  [0095] The most interesting temporal patterns of stimulation in this Example are from batches
  15, 17, and 18. Batch 15 produced a temporal pattern of stimulation with an average frequency
 of 98 Hz with an error fraction as low as 0.098. Thus, it outperformed the 100 Hz constant
 frequency case by managing to lower the error even further at roughly the same frequency. Still,
 the qualitatively useful features of batch 15 are difficult to discern. Batch 17 was also appealing
 because of its very low frequency of 67,82. This low frequency was gained at the cost of
 increased error at 0.253, but it may nonetheless be useful if emphasis is placed on maintaining
low frequency DBS. The qualitative features of batch 17 indicated at first a ramp followed by a
continual switching between low and high IPI's. Lastly, batch 18 stood somewhere in the middle
with a fairly low frequency of 87.62 and low error fraction of 0.116, only marginally higher than
the healthy condition of 0.1. The dominant qualitative feature of batch 18's waveform is that it
too shows a ramp nature in that the IPI initially steadily falls, then quickly rises, falls, and then
                                               16

    rises. The rapid changing between high and low IP of batch 17 can be envisioned as a set of
   steep ramps.
    [00961 A comparison of Batch 17 (Figure 4) and Batch 18 (Figure 5) demonstrates how the
   balance between efficacy (as a function of the model error fraction *E) and efficiency (as a
   function of frequency f) in non-regular temporal patterns of stimulation can he purposefully
   tailored to meet clinical objectives. The systems and methodologies discussed allow changing
   the cost function by weighting efficacy or frequency more heavily (i.e., by changing W and/or
   K), while still yielding temporal patterns of stimulation with lower cost results than die constant
   frequency waveforms. Comparing Batch 17 with Batch 18, one sees that the error fraction (E)
   (i.e., the efficacy of the temporal pattern) of Batch 17 (0.253) is greater than the error fraction
  (E) (i.e., the efficacy of the temporal pattern) of Batch 18 (0.116). However, one can also see that
  the efficiency (i.e-, the average frequency) of Batch 17 (67.82 Hz) is lower than the efficiency
  (i.e., the average frequency) of Batch 18 (81.28 Hz). Through different in terms of efficacy and
  efficiency, both Batch 17 and Batch 18 have costs better than constant-frequency temporal
  patterns.
  [0097] Figure I1 depicts a modeled raster of healthy firing of neurons in the subthalamic nucleus
  and the global pallidus, both external and internal segments thereof, through about one second of
 time.
  [00981 Figure 12 depicts a modeled raster of the healthy subject modeled in Figure 11, with the
 addition of a forced Parkinsonian state, however with deep brain stimulation not being applied to
 the model. Like the raster of Figure 11, this Figure depicts neurons in the subthalamic nucleus
 and the global pallidus, both external and internal segments thereof, through about one second of
 time.
 [0099] Figure 13 depicts a modeled raster of the modeled Parkinsonian subject of Figure 12,
however further applying a regular 45 Hz regular interval DBS signal to the subthalamic nucleus,
as can be seen. Additionally, the figure shows the firing of neurons in the global pallidus, both
external and internal segments thereof, through about one second of time.
[00100]            Figure 14 depicts a modeled raster of the modeled Parkinsonian subject of Figure
12, however further applying a regular 100 Hz regular interval DBS signal to the subthalamic
nucleus, as can be seen. Additionally, the figure shows the firing of neurons in the global
pallidus, both external and internal segments thereof, through about one second of time.
[001011            Figure 15 depicts a graphical representation of modeled, conventionally expected
error fractions where a regular interval DBS signal is applied to the Parkinsonian model. The
                                                17

    goal in determining optimum stimulation patterns may be to provide a stimulation pattern that
   has a lower average frequency with at least as good, if not better (lower) error fractions than
   regular interval DBS signals presented to the STN. By way of a non-limiting example, with DBS
   off (average frequency = 0 liz), the model provides that an expected error fraction may be about
   0.34 to about 0.40, With a regular interval stimulation pattern applied to the STN at about 45 Hz,
   the expected error fraction is about 0.20 to about 0.25. According to the model, and therefore
   generally accepted in the field, higher average frequency regular interval stimulation yields a
   lower error fraction. Accordingly, if stimulation could be provided at an average frequency of
   about 45 Hz with a modeled error fraction less than that expected (i.e., less than about 0.20),
   benefits would be realized. Not only would relief from brain disorders be improved, but power
   consumption by any device delivering the new stimulation patterns, would be reduced as
   compared to the same device delivering regular interval stimulation patterns in an attempt to
   achieve similar performance results,
   {00102]         Figure 16 provides an illustration of a model structure that may be used to
  generate stimulation patterns according to the present invention. Reference to this illustration
  may be helpful in explaining what is referred to herein as an "error fraction." As used herein, an
  "error fraction" is generally understood to mean the number of errors occurring at the output of a
  model as compared to the number of inputs provided to the model. An output error occurs when
  a contrast arises between an expected value of the model output to an output generated by the
  model provided with a given stimulation pattern, such as to the STN, as shown.
  1001031         Figure 17 generally depicts a known genetic algorithm process model, beginning
 with the generation of organisms (in this case pulse trains or stimulation patterns), and
 continuing as described above. One method for a mating process that may be employed in the
 genetic algorithm according to the present invention is a single crossover process by which
 certain, but preferably not all, genes (stimulation pulses) are exchanged between parent
 stimulation trains so as to yield two child stimulation trains are generated. As depicted in Figure
 18. the stimulation patterns include a series of I's and 0's, which indicate whether or not,
respectively, a stimulation pulse is to be delivered during a given time step, such as about 500
microseconds to about 100 milliseconds, and preferably about one to 5 milliseconds. While
initial or starting stimulation patterns may be created by drawing interpulse intervals from some
distribution, such as a Gaussian distribution, the initial stimulation patterns are preferably
generated randomly, and constraints may be added to control the number of stimulation pulses
(l's) in the initial stimulation patterns, thereby controlling the average frequency range of the
stimulation pattern. Resulting generational stimulation patterns are then evaluated by the model
                                              18

   and compared to the performance of regular interval stimulation patterns provided to the model
   at the same average frequency as the generational stimulation pattern currently under evaluation.
    [001041        Another cost function that has proven useful in determining beneficial non
   regular temporal patterns of stimulation generated by a genetic algorithm is as follows: C     = (EGA
   - EFMReg)/EFMReg * 100% where      EGA  is the error fraction of a selected generational stimulation
   pattern generated by the genetic algorithm and currently under analysis by the model and EFMa,
   is the error fraction of a DBS stimulation pattern of uniform frequency at a frequency equal to
   the average frequency of the GA train under analysis, This may be referred to generally as a
   percent change cost function. At first, one might expect that this cost function would not force a
   genetic algorithm to search for non-regular patterns of DBS with a low average frequency.
   However, this is not the case; the GA is inclined to search for non-regular stimulation pattern of
   DBS with a low average frequency because there is a greater opportunity to find improved
  stimulation patterns (i.e., having a lower error fraction) at lower frequencies. That is, as shown in
  Figure 15, the error fraction associated with 130 Hz conventional regular-interval DBS is already
  so close to zero that it is highly unlikely that a non-regular pattern with an average frequency of
   130 Hz is going to have a smaller error fraction. In other words, there just is not much room to
  improve at 130 Hz. On the other hand, at 45 Hz, there is ample room for improvement. It is
  much more likely that a non-regular pattern of DBS with an average frequency of 45 Hz will be
  found that has a better performance than conventional regular-interval DBS provided at 45 Hz.
 Therefore, using a percent decrease cost function implicitly incorporates the average frequency
 of DBS while helping to minimize complications of selecting weighting parameters, as with the
 other cost functions discussed herein. As shown in Figure 19, it is beneficial to run the genetic
 algorithm through a plurality of generations so as to decrease the cost. This figure shows the
 (decline in) cost as the genetic algorithm progresses. That is, the algorithm is identifying better
 and better stimulation patterns, from generation to generation, and subsequently the cost is
 declining, or, in other words, the performance is increasing.
 [00105]          Three stimulation trains generated according to the present invention utilizing the
percent change cost fiction to guide survival and propagation are shown in Figures 20-22. In
Figure 20, a preferred GAl stimulation train is shown as being applied to the STN of a
Parkinsonion brain model. The preferred stimulation pattern includes the repetition of a set 100
of three triplet stimulation pulses 100A,100B,100C, where each triplet preferably comprises a
singlet 102 followed by a doublet 104. Through any given set 100 of triplets, the interpulse
interval between the singlet and doublet of one triplet is preferably different than the interpulse
interval between the singlet and doublet of at least one other triplet, and more preferably
                                                19

    different than each interpulse interval between the singlet and doublet of all other triplets in the
    set 100. Furthermore, the interpulse interval within the doublets of each triplet is preferably
    different than at least one other doublet interpulse interval within that set 100, and more
    preferably the interpulse interval within each doublet in a given set 100 is different than the
    interpulse interval within each other doublet in that set 100. While the interpulse intervals
    between the singlets and doublets of a given set, and within the doublets of the given set, may
   vary (as much as integer factors), the interpulse interval between each triplet within a given set
   preferably remains relatively constant, such as by varying less than about 10% throughout the
   set.
     00106]        In each of the described preferred stimulation patterns, a given set to be repeated
   includes at least one doublet and at least one singlet. As in the case of the GAl train, the number
   of singlets and doublets in a given set 100 was equal (three of each). As in the case of the GA2
   pattern set 200, as shown in Figure 21, the number of doublets far outweighed the number of
   singlets (80/. of n-lets were doublets as opposed to 20% as singlets). As in the case of the GA3
  patten set 300, as shown in Figure 22, the number of doublets outweighed the number of
  singlets (60o of n-lets were doublets as opposed to 40% as singlets). Accordingly, it may be
  more preferable to include, in a given stimulation pattern to be repeatedly delivered to the
  subthalamic nucleus or other portion of the brain, one or more singlets and one or more doublets,
  where the number of doublets is equal to or greater than the number of singlets in the set.
  1001071         As shown in Figure 23, the stimulation patterns generated according to the present
 invention have a much lower error fraction value as compared to their regular interval
 stimulation counterparts at frequencies less than 100 Hz. For example, at 45 Hz, regular interval
 DBS has an error fraction of about 20 in 100 (0.20) to about 25 in 100 (0.25). On the other hand,
 the stimulation patterns generated according to the present invention provide a modeled error
 fraction of about 5 in 100 to about 15 in 100, thereby demonstrating a 25% to 80% improvement
 in efficiency.
 [00108]          An electrical stimulation pattern created according to the present invention (GA])
was experimentally applied to two human patients that had been diagnosed with PD. The GAl
pattern was applied during intraoperative experiments that were conducted by connecting to an
exposed lead of a previously implanted DBS electrode during an implantable pulse generator
replacement surgery. After connection, the GAl patten of stimulation and a few control patterns
were delivered. Motor impairment was quantified while delivering the patterns of stimulation
using a known finger-tapping task. To measure the effect of the DBS stimulation patterns
according to the present invention, a two-button computer mouse was utilized, and the patient
                                               20

    was instructed to, during data collection times, alternate clicking a respective mouse button with
    their index finger and their middle finger. The time duration of the respective button clicks was
    then recorded by a computer and analyzed, The time duration of one or both fingers may be
    analyzed, depending upon statistical results. As can be seen in Figure 24, the GAl stimulation
   pattern allowed each patient to demonstrate an increase in motor function as compared to the
   regular interval DBS stimulation pattern provided at the same average frequency, thus indicating
   an increased benefit in performance with no sacrifice to average cost (i.e, no increase in average
   power). Furthermore, for Patient     1, the GAl stimulation pattern caused the patient to perform
   substantially similar to motor function demonstrated under application of a regular interval DBS
   stimulation pattern of 185 Hz, thus indicating substantial similar performance with a great cost
   (i.e. power) reduction (stimulation provided at an average of 45 Hz. instead of 185 Hz). Finally,
  with respect to Patient 2, the GAl stimulation pattern caused the patient to perform better than
  the motor function demonstrated under application of a regular interval DBS stimulation pattern
  of 185 Hz, thus indicating improved performance with a great cost (i.e. power) reduction
  (stimulation provided at an average of 45 Hz instead of 185 Hz). Generally speaking, then, the
  45 Hz average frequency stimulation pattern designed according to the present invention
  performed similarly or better than conventional 185 Hz regular DBS stimulation and better than
  frequency matched (45 Hz) regular stimulation. Further clinical experiments have been
  conducted in applying stimulation to the STN using stimulation patterns generated according to
 the present invention, and such experiments show promising results.
  [00109)          An electrical stimulation pattern created according to the present invention (GA1)
 was also tested in one human subject with PD where tremor was that subject's primary motor
 symptom. The subject's tremor was quantified using as accelerometer on the back of the subject's
 contralateral wrist.
 1001101          Tremor was measured in the contralateral limb during unilateral stimulation with
 a temporal pattern of stimulation generated according to the present invention having an average
 frequency of about 45 Iz, regular 45 Hz and 185 Hz stimulation, and with stimulation off
(controls) in a single intraoperative session with a human subject. The stimulation patten was
presented to the subject, and the subject was blinded to the experimental condition. The trial
began with one minute of stimulation off, with baseline tremor measured for 20 seconds
beginning about 30 seconds into these intervals, and about 30 seconds after each condition was
initiated experimental tremor was measured for 20 seconds (Ex. Figure 28A).
1001111           Tremor was measured using an accelerometer (Crossbow CXLO4LP3; 5V/4g
sensitivity, San Jose, CA, USA) taped to the dorsum of the hand. The amplitude of tremor
                                               21

    recorded by an accelerometer generally correlates well with clinical tremor rating scales. To
    obtain a single quantitative measure of tremor, the power spectral density was calculated for each
   of the three acceleration signals (AX, AY, and AZ, Ex. Figure 28B) using the psd function
   (power spectral density, Welch's averaged periodogram, Hanning window, FFT length = 5,000)
   in MATLAB. Next, each spectrum was integrated from 2-20 Hz to get PX, PY, and PZ. Finally,
   PX, PY, and PZ were summed, and the log of the sum was calculated to get a single metric of
   tremor. The frequency range of 2-20 Hz was chosen to include the primary and several
   harmonies of the tremor and to exclude steady state acceleration due to gravity.
   [001121         As mentioned, the power spectral density for the acceleration signal was
   integrated from 2-20 Hz in order to get a single quantitative measure of the tremor amplitude. As
  can be seen in Figure 25, the stimulation pattern generated according the present invention
  having an average frequency of about 45 Hz (GA       1) reduced the tremor amplitude more than the
  regular 45 Hz stimulation but slightly less than regular 185 Hz stimulation. All three patterns of
  stimulation reduced tremor amplitude compared to the stimulation off condition.
  [00113]          Figure 26 provides a spectral analysis of the average power across 10 GPi neurons
  for a single stimulation pattern iteration applying the indicated stimulation pattern to a forced
  Parkinsonian state in a model. As can be seen, there is significant oscillatory or synchronous
  activity generated around 15 liz in the Parkinsonian state when the DBS input is off. The 45 Hz
  regular interval stimulation does not lessen such activity much, but the 185 Hz regular interval
 stimulation does. Accordingly, there may be a correlation between an attenuation of such
 oscillatory or synchronous activity and the effectiveness of a given DBS stimulation pattern.
 Indeed, it has been observed that such attenuation is at least correlated to an improvement in
 movement, especially in animals that have a previously demonstrated or induced state of
 bradykinesia.
 [0011 4 ]        Figure 27 provides an example tuning curve to analyze the 10-30 Hz global
pallidus internal (GPi) neuronal power. That is, the spectra for 10 GPI neurons in a model were
averaged for each stimulation state across 10 iterations. The plotted points indicate the average
power of the GPi spike times across all 10 GPi neurons, averaged across the 10 stimulation
iterations at each stimulation state. As can be seen, the power demonstrated in the 10-30 Hz
frequencies by the OPi neurons (which are generally correlated to a neurological condition) is
greatly reduced by the application of stimulation patterns that have been clinically shown to
assist in reducing negative effects of such conditions. Accordingly, stimulation patterns
according to the present invention may be, and have found to be, directed towards or involve the
reduction of the average power of GPi oscillatory or synchronous activity. In fact, as shown in
                                               22

   Figure 27, an attenuation of at least about 25% of oscillatory activity caused by an actual animal
   neurological condition or a neurological condition model, but more preferably an attenuation of
   about 50% or greater, may be achieved using stimulation patterns according to the present
   invention.
   100115]        The power of the oscillatory or synchronous activity that may be modeled, or
   measured from a patient, as correlated to a neurological condition may be used in alternative cost
   functions according to another embodiment of the present invention for optimizing stimulation
  patterns. One cost function that may be employed by an optimization algorithm or technique
  according to the present invention is as follows: C - (PCA  - PFMReg)/PFMeg   * 100% where PGA is
  the average power generated by a computer model, over a given frequency range, of the firing of
  one or more GPi neurons when a selected generational stimulation pattern, which was initially
  created or generated by the genetic algorithm, is applied to the STN in the model and PFMReg is
  the power generated by a computer model, over the same given frequency range, of the firing the
  same GPi neurons when a OBS stimulation pattern of uniform frequency at a frequency equal to
  the average frequency of the GA train under analysis. The given frequency range may be a single
  frequency (e.g. 15 Hz) or a set of preferably contiguous frequencies (e.g. 10-30 lHz) or a set of
 noncontiguous frequencies (e.g- 15, 20, and 30 Hz).
  100116]        Another cost function, using oscillatory power, that may be used to optimize
 stimulation patterns is as follows: C = W*P + K*f, where C is the cost, P is the average power
 generated by a computer model, over a given frequency range, of the firing of one or more GPi
 neurons when a selected generational stimulation pattern, which was initially created or
 generated by the genetic algorithm, is applied to the STN in the model, f is the average frequency
 of the generational pattern of stimulation, W is an appropriate weighting factor for the average
 power, and K is an appropriate weighting factor for the frequency. The given frequency range
 may be a single frequency (e.g. 15 Hz) or a set of preferably contiguous frequencies (e.g. 10-30
 Hz) or a set of noncontiguous frequencies (eg. 15, 20, and 30 Hz). The weighting factors W and
K allow quantitative differentiation between efficacy (as a function of P) and efficiency (as a
function of f) to generate patterns of non-constant inter-pulse interval deep brain stimulation
trains that provide advantageous results         with lower average frequencies,       compared to
conventional constant frequency pulse trains,
[001171         The non-regular temporal patterns of stimulation generated and disclosed above
therefore make possible achieving at least the same, equivalent or superior clinical efficacy at a
lower or comparable average frequency compared to conventional constant-frequency temporal
patterns. The lower average frequencies of the non-regular temporal stimulation patterns make
                                              23

   possible increases in efficiency and expand the therapeutic window of amplitudes and/or other
   stimulus parameters (e.g., pulse duration, and/or average frequency) that can be applied to
   achieve the desired result before side effects are encountered,
   100118]         DBS is a well-established therapy for treatment of movement disorders, but the
   lack of understanding of mechanisms of action has limited full development and optimization of
  this treatment. Previous studies have focused on DBS-induced increases or decreases in neuronal
  firing rates in the basal ganglia and thalamus- However, recent data suggest that changes in
  neuronal firing patterns may be at least as important as changes in firing rates.
  100119]          The above described systems and methodologies make it possible to determine
  the effects of the temporal pattern of DBS on simulated and measured neuronal activity, as well
  as motor symptoms in both animals and humans. The methodologies make possible the
  qualitative and quantitative determination of the temporal features of low frequency stimulation
  trains that preserve efficacy.
  [00120]         The systems and methodologies described herein provide robust insight into the
  effects of the temporal patterns of DBS, and thereby illuminate the mechanisms of action,
  Exploiting this understanding, new temporal patterns of stimulation may be developed, using
 model-based optimization, and tested, with the objective and expectation to increase DBS
 efficacy and increase DBS efficiency by reducing DBS side effects.
 100121]          The invention provides non-regular stimulation patterns or trains that may create a
 range of motor effects from exacerbation of symptoms to relief of symptoms. The non-regular
 stimulation patterns or trains described herein and their testing according to the methodology
 described herein may facilitate the selection of optimal surgical targets as well as treatments for
 new disorders. The non-regular stimulation patterns or trains described herein may make
possible improved outcomes of DBS by potentially reducing side effects, improving efficacy
and/or prolonging battery life. The extended battery life may result from a lower average
frequency of stimulation (45 Hz vs. 100 or 185 Hz), thereby delivering less electrical current
over time. Surgeries to replace depleted pulse generators will be needed less frequently and the
costs that a DBS patient can expect with the DBS system will be diminished.
METHODS FOR IMPROVING EFFICACY OF TREATMENT OF PARKINSON'S DISEASE
[00122]          The system 10 may be used to stimulate tissue of the central nervous system in
patients with PD as a means of improving the efficacy of their treatment. A study was conducted
with the system 10 and the results are as follows.
                                              24

   [00123]         The efficacy of five temporal patterns of high frequency DBS was quantified
   using an alternating finger tapping task in human participants with PD. As well, the effect of
   each pattern on pathological beta band oscillations was quantified in a computational model of
   the basal ganglia.
   Subject Information
   [00124]        In one study, individuals with DBS for PD undergoing implantable pulse
  generator (IPG) replacement surgery were tested. Subjects were at least three months post DBS
  electrode implant/revision, capable of performing a simple finger tapping task, neurologically
  stable, and capable of understanding the study and consent form. Ten subjects completed the
  protocol and were analyzed. DBS electrode target nucleus was either STN (7/10) or GPi (3/10),
  Subjects were asked to withhold PD medications for 12 hours prior to surgery, and most (7/10)
  complied.
  Intraoperative Stimulation Protocol
  1001251         Sedation and analgesia were withheld when possible (8/10) and local anesthetic
 (lidocaine) was used. Following removal and disconnection of the depleted IPG, a sterile
 connection was made between the extension cable and the signal generation equipment, allowing
 different temporal patterns of stimulation to be delivered through the implanted electrode.
 [001261         Custom software (LabVIEW) on a battery-powered laptop computer generated
 the experimental patterns of stimulation. The analog voltage outputs (DAQCardtM6062E) were
 optically isolated (bp Optical Isolator with Probe) from the stimulation hardware. The subject's
 clinical stimulation parameters and contact settings were maintained when possible. Subjects
 with case (+) programming (4/10) were switched to a bipolar configuration and one of the
 clinically inactive electrode contacts was set as (+). Subjects (4/10) occasionally experienced
 uncomfortable side effects when the clinical DBS amplitude was applied-presumably because
their clinical stimulation parameters were adjusted as the IPG battery voltage declined-and the
maximum stimulation amplitude that did not cause discomfort was used. Some patients reported
paresthesias from stimulation, but there were no other adverse events.
Stimulation Patterns
1001271         Bradykinesia during DBS-off (Baseline) was compared to temporally regular
DBS at 185 Hz (Regula) and to four non-regular temporal patterns of DBS (Figure 29A) named
according to their dominant feature or the shape of their instantaneous pulse frequency (PF)
distribution. The Absence and Presence pattems were both periodic with low entropy ul
bits/pulse) and characterized by either short periods absent of pulses or the presence of short
                                             25

    bursts of pulses, respectively. The pauses and bursts both occurred at 4,4 Hz. The Uniform and
    Unipeak patterns were highly irregular (high entropy: -5.5-5.6 bits/pulse) and were created from
    log-uniform distributions of IPFs. Although the Unipeak pattern was created from a wider log
   uniform distribution of IPFs (44-720 Hz) than the Umiform pattern (90-360 Hz), the two patterns
   had the same entropy.
   Motor Performance Measurements
   100128]          Motor performance was quantified using an alternating finger tapping task. The
   subject's hand contralateral to stimulation was placed on a two-button computer mouse and the
   subject was asked to press alternately each button during 20 second trials repeated every two
   minutes (Figures 29B and C).
   100129]         The log-transformed coefficient of variation of tap duration is a statistical
  measure of variability of tap duration that is significantly correlated with the Unified Parkinson's
  Disease rating scale (UPDRS) motor score, particularly with the bradykinesia subscore, and was
  the primary measure of motor task performance across stimulation conditions. Because of the
  time course of the effects of DB5 on motor symptoms in PD, the second data collection epoch
  near the end of each stimulation condition was analyzed unless it was missing, in which case the
  first data collection epoch served as its replacement. Furthermore, only button presses made with
 the index fmger were analyzed because experimenter observations, post-hoc data analysis, and
  further analysis of previously published data used to validate the alternating finger tapping task
 revealed that this was a more robust outcome measure. The same trends in the data were
 observed when averaging index finger motor performance during the early and late data
 collection epochs and when averaging the motor performance during the early and late data
 collection epochs for both fingers separately, In this repeated measures experimental design,
 bradykinesia in subjects at Baseline (DBS off) and during all five stimulation patterns was
 quantified. After the Baseline condition, the order of stimulation pattern presentation was
 randomized for each patient, and subjects were blinded to the stimulation conditions. After
completing the experimental protocol, the sterile connection between the extension cable and the
stimulus-generating      equipment was      disengaged, and the IPG replacement surgery was
completed.
Data Analysis and Statistics
[00130]           Data collected through LabVIEW were processed using custom scripts in
MATLAB R2009b to extract click durations from the alternating finger tapping task. Technical
outliers were removed by discarding extremely short clicks that were artifacts of the computer
mouse clicking apparatus (debouncing). JMP 9 and StatView 5.0.1 for Windows were used to
                                               26

    conduct the statistical analyses. Experimental data were analyzed using repeated measures
    analysis of variance (ANOVA) with log-transformed coefficient of variation of the index finger
   tap duration as the repeated measure in each subject. The log-transformed coefficient of variation
   of the index finger tap intervals and the log-transformed number of index finger taps per 20 s
   data collection epoch are alternative motor performance measures that were also analyzed using
   the repeated measures ANOVA model, Fisher's protected least significant difference (PLSD) test
   was used to make post-hoc comparisons across experimental conditions. Pearson's correlation
   coefficient was used to assess correlation strength. Paired t-tests were performed to access the
   effects of bursts, pauses, and irregularity, per se, in data that were pooled across stimulus
   condition. Statistical significance was defined at a =0.05.
   Computational Model of the Basal Ganglia
   1001311         A biophysical model of the basal ganglia in a PD state was used to determine the
   effect of the different patterns of stimulation on oscillatory activity in model neurons. The
  computational model included the STN, GPi, and external globus pallidus (GPe), and each
  nucleus contained 10 single compartment neurons. Each GPe neuron sent inhibitory projections
  to two STN neurons, two GPi neurons, and two other GPe neurons. STN neurons sent excitatory
  projections to two GPe neurons and two GPi neurons (Figure ID). The biophysical properties of
  each neuron type were validated against experimental data, and are described in detail elsewhere.
  Constant currents were applied to neurons in each nucleus to represent inputs from afferent
  projections that were not included in the model and produced firing rates that were consistent
 with observations in non-human primate models of PD and human patients with PD. STN and
 GPi neurons received applied current of 33 -/cm2 and 21 -cm2, respectively. Variability was
 added to the model by delivering a constant current to each GPe neuron randomly drawn from a
 normal distribution centered around 8 -/cm2 with a standard deviation of 2 -/cm2. STN DBS
 was applied by delivering the desired pattern of current pulses (amplitude 300 -/cm2; pulse
 width 0.3 ins) to each STN neuron. Simulations were implemented in MATLAB R2009b with
 equations solved using the forward Euler method with a time step of 0.01 tns and a total
simulated time of 20 s.
 [001321         Neurons in all nuclei exhibited strong oscillatory activity in the beta frequency
range centered around 20 Hz. Beta band oscillatory activity is implicated in the pathophysiology
of PD. Therefore, the effect of different stimulation patterns on the oscillatory activity in the
primary output nucleus of the basal ganglia, the GPi, was quantified. Spectrograms of the GPi
spike times were generated using the Chronux neural signal analysis package and MATLAB
R2009b. The average multitaper spectrograms from Gi spike time data across all 10 GIPi
                                               27

    neurons using a 2 s sliding window and a 0.1 s step size was calculated. Since the frequency of
    the oscillatory activity could change over time as the stimulation was delivered, the beta band
    power was quantified by evaluating the time-integral of the peak power density in the beta
    frequency range (13-35 Hz). These values were log-transformed and termed Beta Band Power.
   Results
   1001331          Bradykinesia was measured in subjects with PD while applying different temporal
   patterns of DBS to determine which characteristics of non-regular stimulation influenced its
   efficacy. Motor performance was quantified using the log-transformed coefficient of variation of
   index finger tap duration (Log CV Duration) during alternating finger tapping, and DBS
   improved performance in this task (Figure 30). Repeated measures ANOVA revealed that the
   variability of finger tap duration was dependent on the pattern of DBS (F =7.989, P<0,001). In
   accordance with previous studies showing that DBS ameliorates motor symptoms in PD, post
  hoc testing revealed that tap duration variability was greater during Baseline (DBS off)
  compared to Regular DBS (p= 0.0 16). Furthermore, tap duration variability was greater during
  Baseline compared to all the applied patterns of DBS individually (p < 0.05), indicating that all
  patterns of stimulation improved motor performance compared to the DBS off condition.
  1001341          Post-hoc testing also revealed    significant differences  between   stimulation
  patterns. During Absence, Presence, and Uniform DBS, the tap duration variability was lower
  than during Regular DBS (p=0.007, p=0.031, and p=0. 0 2 8 , respectively), indicating that these
 patterns improved bradykinesia in PD more effectively than the temporally regular stimulation
 pattern used clinically. Motor task performance (Log CV Duration) during the Unipeak and
 Regular patterns was similar. Consequently, tap duration variability during the Absence,
 Presence, and Uniform stimulation patterns was lower than during the Unipeak pattern (p=0.018,
 p-=0.06 9 , and p=0.063, respectively). When individually added to the repeated measures
 ANOVA statistical model, there was not a significant effect of surgical target (GPi and STN: p =
 0.21), medication state (p = 0.42), sedation status (p-0.54), or switching to a bipolar electrode
configuration (p = 0.75).
 [001351          The responses to the different temporal patterns of stimulation were consistent
across subjects. In 9/10 subjects, motor performance was better during the Absence and Uniform
patterns compared to the Regular pattern. Motor performance was superior during PresenceDBS
compared to Regular stimulation in 7/10 subjects. Motor performance was improved during
stimulation compared to Baseline in 80-100%// of the subjects depending on the pattern,
[00136]           Motor performance during the stimulation patterns was weakly correlated (p
=0.071, R2=0.076) with motor performance during the stimulation off period immediately
                                              28

    preceding when the stimulation pattern was applied (Figure 3 IA). This suggested that changes in
    finger tap duration variability between stimulation patterns were caused by the stimulation
    patterns themselves, and were not a reflection of fluctuations in baseline motor performance.
   Instead, and consistent with the time course of the action of DB5 in PD, motor performance
   during the stimulation off period following each stimulation pattern reflected the motor
   performance during the preceding pattern of stimulation, as demonstrated by significant
   correlations between finger tap duration variability during the stimulation pattern and during the
   subsequent stimulation off periods (p=0.0019, R2=0.20; Figure 311B).
   [00137]         The log-transformed coefficient of variation of the intervals between finger taps
   (log OJ Interval) exhibited the same pattern of motor performance across stimulation patterns as
   log CV Duration (Figure 32A). The finger tap timing was the most irregular, on avenge, during
   Baseline and the Unipeak pattern of stimulation, and the average log CV Interval during
  Absence, Presence, and Uniform DBS was lower than it was during Regular DB5. However,
  average differences in log CV Interval across patterns of stimulation were small, and the
  repeated measures ANOVA did not reveal a statistically significant effect of DB5 pattern (p =
  0.44). The log-transformed rate of finger tapping exhibited a similar dependence on stimulation
  pattern. The fewest button presses occurred during Baseline (stimulation off), and the most
  occurred during the Presence pattern of stimulation (Figure 32B). However, the mean
  differences in tapping rates between the patterns of stimulation were small relative to the
  variance, and the repeated measures ANOVA did not reveal a significant effect of DB5 pattern
  (p = 0.45).
  [00138]         Some temporal patterns of DBS improved motor performance more than regular
 stimulation, but the original goal was to determine which features of the stimulation patterns
 influenced the efficacy of DBS. Therefore, the effects of bursts, pauses, and irregularity in the
 stimulation patterns by pooling motor performance data across stimulation trains that shared the
 feature of interest were measured. The data was pooled during Presenceand Unipeak DBS into a
 "Bursts" group and the remaining patterns into a "No Bursts" group; measurements made during
Absence and Unipeak DBS were pooled into the "Pauses" group; and measurements from
 Uniform and Unipeak DBS were pooled into the "irregular" group. Paired t-tests did not reveal a
significant effect of bursts, pauses, or irregularity on the log CV Duration (Figure 33A), log CV
Interval (Figure 33B), or tapping rate (Figure 33C).
[00139]          It is possible that the effects of different temporal patterns of stimulation were
explained by statistical properties of the patterns rather than being a direct result of the patterns
themselves. However, there were no significant correlations between mean log CV Duration and
                                               29

    several statistical descriptors of the stimulation patterns including the pattern maximum IPF (p
   =0.53)' mean IPF (p =0.G2), mean pulse rate (p =0.82), or entropy (p =0.87).
    [00140]          A biophysical model of STN-DBS was used to quantify the effects of different
   temporal patterns on beta band oscillations in the model GPi. The averaged multitaper
   spectrograms from the GPi spike time data revealed prominent oscillatory activity that was
   suppressed by DBS (Figure 34A). All DBS patterns suppressed Beta Band Power compared to
   Baseline, and the relative effects of different patterns on Beta Band Power mirrored their effects
   on the experimental measures of motor function (Figure 34B). Indeed, there was a strong
   correlation (p = 0.007, R2=0.87) between Beta Band Power and log CV Duration (Figure 34C).
   Furthermore, Absence, Presence, and Uniform DBS suppressed Beta Band Power more than
  Regular and Uniform DBS,
  Discussion
  100141]           Quantitative measurement of the effects of different temporal patterns of DBS on
  bradykinesia in subjects with PD and oscillatory activity of model neurons revealed three central
  findings, First, the pattern of stimulation, and not simply the stimulation rate, was an important
  factor in the clinical efficacy of DBS, as demonstrated by the different levels of performance on
  a simple motor task during different temporal patterns of stimulation all of which had the same
  mean frequency. Second, some non-regular patterns of stimulation relieved motor symptoms in
  PD more effectively than the temporally regular stimulation pattern used clinically. Third, the
  differential efficacy of DBS patterns was strongly correlated with the pattern's ability to suppress
 pathological oscillatory activity in the basal ganglia (Figure 34C).
  1001421          The log-transformed coefficient of variation of tap duration is significantly
 correlated with the bradykinesia subscore of the UPDRS, suggesting that the quantitative
 intraoperative measurements        may be predictive of functional change. Secondary motor
 performance outcome measures (log CV Interval and log-transformed number of clicks)
 supported the primary motor performance outcome measure (log CV Duration). The correlation
 between log CV Interval and UPDRS motor scores is weaker than the correlation between log
 CV Duration and UPDRS motor scores. The rate of finger tapping can also be used to quantify
 motor performance during an alternating finger tapping task, and it has also been correlated with
UPDRS       motor scores.     Although statistically significant differences in secondary motor
performance measures were not observed, the data mirrored the log CV Duration data
remarkably well. There were, however, two discrepancies of note. First, performance quantified
by the log CV Interval during Unipeak DBS was poor. In fact, according to this measure, it was
slightly worse than motor task performance during Baseline. Second, the tapping rate data
                                               30

    indicate that fewer clicks occurred during Absence DBS than during Regular DBS, Therefore,
    this contradicts that motor task performance--quantified by the tap duration variability--during
   Absence DBS was significantly better than during Regular DBS.
    [00143)         Oscillatory and synchronized neural activity in specific frequency bands appear to
   be related to motor performance in patients with PD, and the non-regular patterns of stimulation
   that were most effective may be most able to override or otherwise disrupt pathological
   oscillations or synchronization in the basal ganglia. Indeed, the degree of suppression of the
   oscillatory activity in the model neurons matched the clinical efficacy of the patterns during the
   finger tapping task remarkably welt suggesting that the efficacy of these patterns of DBS
   depended on their ability to suppress, disrupt, or otherwise regularize pathological activity in the
   basal ganglia.
   1001441         Conducting experiments during the IPG replacement surgery uniquely enabled the
  present experiments by enabling direct connection to the brain lead. Patients had a stable
  electrode-tissue interface, clinically relevant contact selections, and stimulation parameters with
  demonstrated clinical efficacy. Performing these experiments during the DBS lead implantation
  surgery, between the lead implant and the IPG implant, or in the immediate postoperative period
  is undesirable because of unproven clinical efficacy            and transient effects  of electrode
  implantation. However, the intraoperative setting limited trial durations, so the effects of die
 patterns of stimulation may not be fully developed and differences across patterns may be
 underestimated. A finger tapping task was used with quantitative measures that are correlated
 with UPDRS motor scores. The correlations between log CV Durations and the bradykinesia and
 rigidity UPDRS motor subscores are significant, but it remains unclear whether these non
 regular patterns of stimulation would ameliorate other Parkinsonian motor signs.
 [001451          There is evidence from many systems supporting the importance of temporal
pattern in determining the effects of stimulation. Taste sensation differed across patterns of
stimulation of the rat brainstem, even if the patterns had the same average frequency. Temporal
patterns of intra-cortical microstimulation can encode artificial tactile information in monkeys
using a brain-machine-brain interface. There is also other evidence that non-regular stimulation
patterns could be more effective than regular stimulation for the treatment of movement
disorders.    In an adult rhesus       monkey     rendered Parkinsonian     with   1-methyl-4-phenyl
1,2,3,6tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), burst stimulation patterns similar to the Absence and Presence
DBS patterns improved movement times relative to frequency-matched regular stimulation. As
well,    closed-loop    temporally   non-regular stimulation     cued   from   physiological   signals
outperformed regular DBS in a MPTP primate model of PD. In combination with the present
                                               31

   findings, there is compelling evidence that non-regular temporal patterns of stimulation could be
  more effective than regular stimulation.
   [00146]         The present results highlight the importance of the temporal pattern of stimulation
  as a means to enhance the efficacy of DBS to treat PD. Non-regular high frequency stimulation
  can improve bradykinesia in patients with PD more effectively than clinically-available
  temporally regular stimulation by more thoroughly suppressing or disrupting pathological
  oscillatory activity in the basal ganglia.
  [100147]        The foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention.
  Furthermore, since numerous modifications and changes may readily occur to those skilled in the
  art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and
  described. While the preferred embodiment has been described, the details may be changed
 without departing from the invention. For instance, although the disclosed embodiments of an
 algorithm used to generate stimulation patterns is an evolutionary algorithm, namely a genetic
 algorithm, the scope of the methods for this technology is not limited to genetic algorithms.
 Indeed, the scope of the present invention includes other contemplated model-based optimization
 techniques including, but not limited to, other evolutionary algorithms, swarm intelligence
 algorithms, and other optimization techniques or metaheuristic. The scope of the present
 invention is not limited to any particular model of a neurological disorder, such as PD. Present or
 future models of neurological disorders that are treated with DBS, or other electrical stimulation,
 are candidates for use with the methods described herein. Furthermore, while certain electrical
stimulation patterns have been clinically applied in an effort to quantify their efficacy and
efficiency, it will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention is not necessarily limited
to any particular stimulation pattern as disclosed, but rather the scope of the present invention
encompasses all patterns generated according hereto. The claims as follows are intended to
include all modifications and alterations insofar as they come within the scope of the claims or
the equivalent thereof
                                              32

                                          33
  THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
  1.      A neural stimulation device comprising:
          an implantable pulse generator transmitting a temporal pattern of
 stimulation for application to neurological tissue of a patient, the temporal
 pattern comprising a repeating succession of a non-regular pulse train
 comprising a plurality of pulses having non-regular, non-random, differing inter
 pulse intervals therebetween; and
          wherein the temporal pattern is adapted from applying a model-based
 optimization technique.
 2.      The neural stimulation device of claim 1 wherein the temporal pattern of
 stimulation is applied to reduce at least one symptom of a neurological disease
 or disorder.
 3.      The neural stimulation device of claim 1, wherein the model-based
optimization technique includes applying at least one of a genetic algorithm or
swarm intelligence algorithm, to reduce at least one model-based
measurement that serves as a proxy for a symptom of the patient.
4.       The neural stimulation device of claim 1, wherein tremor is the at least
one Parkinson Disease symptom of the patient.
5.      The neural stimulation device of claim 1, wherein the implantable pulse
generator comprises an on-board, programmable microprocessor.
28/06/18

                                             34
   6.     The neural stimulation device of claim 5, wherein the microprocessor
   carries embedded code to transmit the temporal pattern of stimulation through
  the implantable pulse generator.
  7.      A method for stimulation of a targeted neurological tissue region
  comprising the steps of:
          applying electrical current to a targeted neurological tissue region of an
  animal using a pulse generator according to a temporal pattern of stimulation
  comprising a repeating succession of a non-regular pulse train comprising a
  plurality of pulses having non-regular, non-random, differing inter-pulse
  intervals therebetween;
          wherein the temporal pattern is adapted from applying a model-based
 optimization technique.
 8.       The method of claim 6 further comprising:
          applying a model-based optimization technique determining a second
temporal pattern of stimulation comprising a repeating succession of a non
 regular pulse train comprising a plurality of pulses having non-regular, non
random, differing inter-pulse intervals therebetween; and
         applying electrical current to the targeted neurological tissue region of
the animal using the pulse generator according to the second temporal pattern
of stimulation to reduce at least one symptom of a neurological disease or
disorder of the animal.

                                          35
  9.     The method of claim 8 further comprising repeating the applying
 electrical current to the targeted neurological tissue region of the animal using
 the pulse generator according to the second temporal pattern of stimulation in
 succession, wherein the second temporal pattern of stimulation is different from
 the first second temporal pattern of stimulation.
 10.     The method of claim 8, wherein the model-based optimization technique
 comprises applying a genetic algorithm or swarm intelligence algorithm to
 reduce at least one model-based measurement that serves as a proxy for a
 symptom of the animal.
 11.     The method of claim 8 further comprising utilizing a computer model to
 analyze results of the temporal pattern of stimulation.
 12.    The method of claim 11, wherein analyzing results of the temporal
 pattern of stimulation comprises quantitatively assessing the temporal pattern
of stimulation having an average frequency and at least one model-based
measurement that serves as a proxy for a symptom of the animal.
13.     The method of claim 12, wherein analyzing results of the temporal
pattern of stimulation includes applying a cost function for the temporal pattern
of stimulation based upon the at least one model-based measurement that
serves as a proxy for a symptom of the animal and frequency, the cost function
weighting the at least one model-based measurement and frequency to

                                          36
   minimize the at least one model-based measurement t and frequency at a
  clinically beneficial cost.
  14.     The method of claim 13, wherein analyzing results of the temporal
  pattern of stimulation includes applying the cost function to evaluate the cost of
  the temporal pattern of stimulation.
  15.    The method of claim 8, wherein the second temporal pattern of
  stimulation reduces the at least one symptom of the neurological disease or
  disorder of the animal more than the temporal pattern of stimulation.
  16.    The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one symptom of the
  neurological disease or disorder is tremor.
  17.    A neural stimulation device comprising:
         an implantable pulse generator applying a first temporal pattern of
 stimulation to neurological tissue of a patient, the temporal pattern comprising a
 repeating succession of a non-regular pulse train comprising a plurality of
 pulses having non-regular, non-random, differing inter-pulse intervals
therebetween;
         wherein the pulse generator is programmable to apply a second
temporal pattern of stimulation for application to neurological tissue of a patient,
the temporal pattern comprising a repeating succession of a non-regular pulse
train comprising a plurality of pulses having non-regular, non-random, differing
inter-pulse intervals therebetween, the second temporal pattern of stimulation

                                           37
  based upon an analysis of the first temporal pattern of stimulation reducing at
  least one symptom of neurological disease or disorder; and
          at least one output from the implantable pulse generator, the output
  operatively coupled with at least one electrode.
  18.     The neural stimulation device of claim 17, wherein the second temporal
  pattern of stimulation generally prevents generation of bursting activity within a
 brain of a patient.
 19.     The neural stimulation device of claim 17, wherein the second temporal
 pattern of stimulation correlate with suppression of pathological oscillatory
 activity in the basal ganglia.
20.      The neural stimulation device of claim 17 further comprising an electrode
 implantable into a brain of a patient.
21.      The neural stimulation device of claim 17, wherein the implantable pulse
generator includes an on-board, programmable microprocessor.
22.      The neural stimulation device of claim 21, wherein the microprocessor
carries embedded code generating the second temporal pattern of stimulation.
Dated this    2 8 th day of June 2018
Duke University
Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
PETER MAXWELL AND ASSOCIATES

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
