ACCESSORY CLAMP FOR GRILL
ABSTRACT
A clamp (20) for securing a side table or other accessory (18) to a grill (10) without modifying or
damaging the grill (10) is provided.

                                                     1
ACCESSORY CLAMP FOR GRILL
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention relates to clamps for use on articles such as a grill. More
particularly, the present invention relates to clamps that easily and releasably attach a side table
or other accessory to a grill or other article without the need to modify, damage or otherwise
alter the body of the grill.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The use of gas and charcoal grills is extremely popular. Many users desire the
convenience of a side table or other accessories to hold food, plates, cooking utensils and the
like. Many grills are available with stands or carts for such purposes, either as part of the grill
purchased or as after-market accessories. However, some users may not have the space available
for typical carts and/or stands that are on the market. Other users may find the carts and/or
stands too expensive for their budget. Thus, there is a need for a low cost and effective way to
connect a side table or other accessory to a grill.
[0003] It is also important that the integrity of the grill not be compromised. For example, many
users do not desire to drill holes in their grills for safety, longevity and aesthetic reasons.
Similarly, many users do not want to scratch or otherwise mar the exterior finish of their grill. In
addition, many users desire that the shelf or other accessory attached to the grill be removable if
its use is not desired or the user desires to transport the grill to other locations. Thus, there is
also a need to removably secure a side table or other accessory to a grill without damaging or
modifying the grill itself.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004] The present invention preserves the advantages of known clamps and also provide new
features and advantages.
[0005] Accordingly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a clamp to secure a side
table or other accessory to a grill or other article.

                                                    2
[0006] An additional object of the present invention is to provide a clamp that does not require
the modification of the grill.
[0007] Another object of the present invention is to provide a clamp that does not scratch or
otherwise mar the finish of the grill.
[0008] A further object of the present invention is to provide a clamp that is easy to attach to
and remove from the grill.
[0009] Still another object of the present invention is to provide a clamp that is inexpensive and
can be used on a variety of articles or grill types and support a variety of accessories.
[0010] In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, a clamp for
securing an accessory to the exterior of a grill is provided. The grill typically includes a grill
body, an upper rim and a rolled lip creating a downwardly facing exterior recess. The preferred
clamp includes a base member, the base member having a lateral portion with a grill attachment
end and an accessory support end, the grill attachment end having an upwardly extending flange
terminating in an upper edge. A hanger member securable to the base member is also provided.
The hanger member includes a base portion and a vertical portion, the vertical portion including
a hook portion, wherein the upper edge of the base member fits within the exterior recess on the
rim of the grill and the hook portion of the hanger member engages the rolled lip of the rim of
the grill. A bolt and a wing nut may be used to secure the hanger member to the base member
and thus, to the grill. The accessory secured by the clamp may be a side table or other accessory,
which may be secured to the accessory support end of the base member.
[0011] The present invention also provide for a clamp used to secure an accessory to an article,
the article having an upper rim and a rolled lip creating an exterior recess. The clamp includes a
base member having a lateral portion, one end of the lateral portion being an accessory support
end and the other end being the article attachment end, the article attachment end including an
upwardly extending flange and an upper edge, the upper edge capable of engaging the exterior
recess of the rolled lip of the article. Also included is a hanger member, the hanger member
having a base portion that is parallel to the lateral portion of the base member and a vertical
portion having an upper hook portion, the hook portion capable of engaging the rolled lip of the
rim of the article. A bolt and nut may be used to secure the hanger portion to the base portion,

                                                   3
whereby the clamp is secured to the exterior of the article. In a preferred embodiment, the article
is a grill and the accessory is a side table.
INVENTORS' DEFINITION OF THE TERMS
[0012] The terms used in the claims of this patent are intended to have their broadest meaning
consistent with the requirements of law. Where alternative meanings are possible, the broadest
meaning is intended. All words used in the claims are intended to be used in the normal,
customary usage of grammar and the English language.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013] The stated and unstated objects, features and advantages of the present invention
(sometimes used in the singular, but not excluding the plural) will become apparent from the
following descriptions and drawings, wherein like reference numerals represent like elements in
the various views, and in which:
[0014] Figure 1 is a perspective view of a preferred embodiment of the clamp of the present
invention shown attached to a representative grill and supporting a representative accessory such
as a side table;
[0015] Figure 2 is an exploded perspective view showing the components of a preferred
embodiment of the clamp of the present invention;
[0016] Figure 3 is a perspective view of the clamp of Figure 2 shown in an assembled condition;
[0017] Figure 4 is a side elevational view of a preferred clamp of the present invention shown
installed on a representative grill and with a side table attached as the accessory, taken along line
4-4 of Figure 1;
[0018] Figure 5 is a top perspective view showing installation of a preferred clamp of the
present invention on a representative grill supporting a representative side table.

                                                   4
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0019] Set forth below is a description of what is currently believed to be the preferred
embodiments or best representative examples of the invention claimed. Future and present
alternatives and modifications to the embodiments and preferred embodiments are
contemplated. Any alternatives or modifications which make insubstantial changes in function,
purpose, structure or result are intended to be covered by the claims of this patent.
[0020] A preferred clamp 20 of the present invention is shown Figure 1 installed on a
representative grill 10. The grill 10 includes a generally bowl shaped grill body 11 terminating
in an upper rim 12. The inside of the grill body supports a cooking grate 13. Upper rim 12
includes an exterior facing rolled lip 14 that creates an exterior recess 15 which faces downward
(see Figure 4). Clamp 20 is shown supporting a representative accessory 18, here a side table.
[0021] Clamp 20 is shown installed on a typical Weber kettle grill manufactured and sold by
Weber-Stephen Products LLC. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that clamp 20 of
the present invention may be used on a wide variety of charcoal, gas or electric grills, or even
other appliances or articles. In addition, clamp 20 is shown supporting a side table as accessory
18. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that a wide variety of accessories, such as
shelves, hooks and the like, may be attached to grill 10 with clamp 20.
[0022] A preferred embodiment of clamp 20 may be seen by reference to Figures 2, 3 and 4.
Clamp 20 includes a base member 21 and a hanger member 22. Base member 21 includes a
lateral portion 23. Lateral portion 23 further includes a grill attachment end 24 and an accessory
support end 25. Grill attachment end 24 is proximal grill body 11 and accessory support end 25
extends distally from grill body 11. In a preferred embodiment, the lateral portion 23 extends
outwardly from grill body 11 so that it is generally parallel to the ground or other support
surface of the grill 10. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that a different orientation
or angle of base member 21 may be used depending upon the desired orientation of the
accessory 18 that is attached to grill 10.
[0023] Grill attachment end 24 of lateral portion 23 of base member 21 includes an upwardly
extending flange 26 terminating in an upper edge 27. In a preferred embodiment, upwardly
extending flange 26 is at a generally right angle to lateral portion 23. Upwardly extending flange
26 terminates in an upper edge 27. Lateral portion 23 of base member 21 also includes an

                                                   5
attachment hole 28 near the proximal end and one or more bores 29 at its distal end so that it
may be secured to hanger member 22 as hereinafter described.
[0024] Preferred hanger member 22 includes a base portion 30, a generally vertical portion 31
and a hook portion 32. Base portion 30 may include an attachment hole 33 that aligns with
attachment hole 28 of lateral portion 23 of base member 21. An assembly bolt 34 and a wing nut
35 are also provided in the preferred embodiment.
[0025] To install clamp 20 to support accessory 18, the accessory or table 18 is attached to
accessory support end 25 of base member 21 as shown in Figure 4. A screw or bolt 19 may be
used to secure accessory 18 to base member 21 through a hole or holes 29 on accessory
attachment end 25. It will be understood by those of skill in the art that other methods of
attaching accessory 18 to base member 21 may be used, including adhesives, nails or other
forms of attachment.
[0026] The attachment of clamp 20 to grill body 11 is best seen by reference to Figures 1, 4 and
5. Specifically, the upper edge 27 of upwardly extending flange 26 of base member 21 is
inserted into the exterior recess 15 created by rolled lip 14 of upper rim 12. This prevents the
downward rotation of base member 21. The hook portion 32 of hanger member 22 is placed
over rolled lip 14. Hanger member 22 is then secured to base member 21 using assembly bolt 34
and wing nut 35 which passes through connecting bore 28 of base member 21 and bore 33 of
hanger member 22. In this manner, clamp 20 secures accessory 18 to grill 11 without the need
for holes or other modifications to the grill.
[0027] In practice, the preferred installation of clamp 20 on grill 11 is best shown in Figure 5.
Hanger member 22 is loosely attached to base member 21 with bolt 34 and wing nut 35. The
upper edge 27 of upwardly extending flange 26 is inserted into the exterior recess 15 of rolled
lip 14. Hanger member 22 is then rotated over rolled lip 14 until hook portion 32 engages the
rolled lip 14. The base member 21 and hanger member 22 are then firmly secured using bolt 34
and wing nut 35. In this manner, the accessory 18 is securely yet removably secured to grill 10
via clamp 20 without altering the grill body.
[0028] It will be understood by those of skill in the art that clamp 20 and its components may be
made from a variety of materials, such as steel, stainless steel or plastic, as long as the material
is capable of withstanding the heat generated by the grill. In addition, those portions of clamp 20

                                                  6
that come in contact with the grill may be covered in silicone or some other temperature
resistant material to avoid scratching or otherwise damaging the finish of the grill.
[0029] The above description is not intended to limit the meaning of the words used in or the
scope of the following claims that define the invention. Rather, it is contemplated that future
modifications in structure, function or result will exist that are not substantial changes and that
all such insubstantial changes in what is claimed are intended to be covered by the claims. Thus,
while preferred embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described, it will
be understood that changes and modifications can be made without departing from the claimed
invention. In addition, although the term "claimed invention" or "present invention" is
sometimes used herein in the singular, it will be understood that there are a plurality of invention
as described and claimed.
[0030] Various features of the present invention are set forth in the following claims.

                                                      7
CLAIMS
1.     A clamp for securing an accessory to the exterior of a grill, comprising:
       a grill having a grill body, an upper rim and a rolled lip creating a downwardly facing
exterior recess;
       a base member, the base member having a lateral portion with a grill attachment end and
an accessory support end, the grill attachment end having an upwardly extending flange
terminating in an upper edge;
       a hanger member securable to the base member, the hanger member having a base portion
and a vertical portion, the vertical portion including a hook portion; and,
       wherein the upper edge of the base member fits within the exterior recess on the rim of the
grill and the hook portion of the hanger member engages the rolled lip of the rim of the grill.
2.     The clamp of Claim 1 wherein a bolt and a wing nut secure the hanger member to the base
member.
3.     The clamp of Claim 1 wherein the accessory is a side table.
4.     The clamp of Claim 3 wherein the side table is secured to the accessory support end of the
base member.
5.     A clamp for securing an accessory to an article, the article having an upper rim and a rolled
lip creating an exterior recess, the clamp comprising:
       a base member having a lateral portion, one end of the lateral portion being an accessory
support end and the other end being the article attachment end, the article attachment end
including an upwardly extending flange and an upper edge, the upper edge capable of engaging
the exterior recess of the rolled lip of the article;
       a hanger member, the hanger member having a base portion that is parallel to the lateral
portion of the base member and a vertical portion having an upper hook portion, the hook portion
capable of engaging the rolled lip of the rim of the article; and,
       a bolt and nut to secure the hanger portion to the base portion, whereby the clamp is
secured to the exterior of the article.
6.     The clamp of Claim 5 wherein the article is a grill.

                                           8
7. The clamp of Claim 6 wherein the accessory is a side table.
                           Weber-Stephen Products LLC
                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                             SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701><U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702><U+2701><U+2702>

