                                         ABSTRACT
        A vascular treatment apparatus comprising: a handle having: a trigger mounted on the
handle and being transitionable between a first state and a second state whereby transition of
the trigger activates and de-activates a source of rotation; a male coupling rotably driven by
the source of rotation; a cartridge engageable with the handle and having: a female coupling
so sized and shaped as to be engageable by, and once engaged by, to be rotated by the male
coupling; a wire having a proximal end fixed to the female coupling a main shaft extending
therefrom and terminating at a distal end; and a sheath fixed to and extending from the
cartridge, the sheath defining a lumen through which the wire runs wherein the sheath, when
the female coupling is not engaged by the male coupling, covers the distal end of the wire, and
wherein as the male coupling and the female coupling fully engage each other and the
cartridge is engaged with the handle, the male coupling displaces female coupling detents to
allow the female coupling to slide within the cartridge, thereby causing the sheath, when the
female coupling is engaged by the male coupling, to slide back relative to the wire and
uncover the distal end of the wire.

       1/7
    N~
CbK

                              VASCULAR TREATMENT DEVICE
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001]      This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2015238901, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
2011328994, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
         [0002]      This specification relates to the field of vascular treatment.
Description of the Related Art
         [0003]      Sclerotherapy    can   be   used    to  treat  blood    vessels, blood vessel
malformations, and similar problems in other body systems, such as the lymphatic system, and
has been used in various forms for over 150 years. In its more modern form, sclerotherapy has
been used since the 1960's, in Europe, for treating various vein conditions such as; varicose
veins, reticular veins, spider veins of the leg, and also some fine facial veins.
         [0004]      Sclerotherapy can be used to treat these conditions by instigating vascular
fibrosis and obliteration in response to irreversible endothelial cellular destruction and
exposure of the underlying subendothelial cell layer. This destruction is usually caused by the
injection of a sclerosant into the vein. However, if the injected sclerosant is too weak, there
may be no endothelial injury at all. If the sclerosant is a little stronger, the varicose vessel is
damaged, but recanalization occurs and an incompetent pathway for retrograde blood flow
persists.   Finally, if the injected sclerosant is too strong, the varicose vessel endothelium is
destroyed, but adjacent vessels that are not targeted for treatment may also be damaged by the
sclerosant.
         [0005]      The requirement for an ideal strength of the sclerosant is complicated by the
constant flow of blood through the vein that is being treated. This flow simultaneously dilutes,
and thereby weakens, the sclerosant, while also transporting the sclerosant to other parts of the
vascular system.
         [0006]      Thus, improved methods and devices for treating the vascular system are
desired.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] The invention provides a vascular treatment apparatus comprising:

        a handle having:
        a trigger mounted on the handle and being transitionable between a first state and a
second state whereby transition of the trigger activates and de-activates a source of rotation;
        a male coupling rotably driven by the source of rotation;
        a cartridge engageable with the handle and having:
                 a female coupling so sized and shaped as to be engageable by, and once
        engaged by, to be rotated by the male coupling;
                 a wire having a proximal end fixed to the female coupling a main shaft
        extending therefrom and terminating at a distal end; and
                 a sheath fixed to and extending from the cartridge, the sheath defining a lumen
        through which the wire runs wherein the sheath, when the female coupling is not
        engaged by the male coupling, covers the distal end of the wire, and
        wherein as the male coupling and the female coupling fully engage each other and the
cartridge is engaged with the handle, the male coupling displaces female coupling detents to
allow the female coupling to slide within the cartridge, thereby causing the sheath, when the
female coupling is engaged by the male coupling, to slide back relative to the wire and
uncover the distal end of the wire.
[0007a]         The invention also provides a vascular treatment apparatus comprising:
        a handle having:
        a male coupling;
        a cartridge engageable with the handle and having:
                 a female coupling so sized and shaped as to be engageable by the male
        coupling;
                 a wire having a proximal end fixed to the female coupling a main shaft
        extending therefrom and terminating at a distal tip being shaped so as to damage a
        vessel wall when contact is made therewith; and
                 a sheath fixed to and extending from the cartridge, the sheath defining a lumen
        through which the wire runs wherein the sheath, when the female coupling is not
        engaged by the male coupling, covers the distal end of the wire, and
        wherein as the male coupling and the female coupling fully engage each other and the
cartridge is engaged with the handle, the male coupling displaces female coupling detents to
allow the female coupling to slide within the cartridge, thereby causing the sheath, when the
female coupling is engaged by the male coupling, to slide back relative to the wire and
uncover the distal tip of the wire.

        [0007b]Also disclosed therein is an apparatus for permanently occluding a vein,
comprising: an elongated intraluminal member shaped and dimensioned for passage through
blood vessels of a subject, the intraluminal member including a proximal end and a distal end,
wherein the distal end comprises a vein wall disruptor; a source of sclerosant; and a fluid
channel between the source of sclerosant and the distal end of the elongated intraluminal
member; a first motor coupled to the intraluminal member to move the intraluminal member to
damage the endothelium of the inner vein wall; a second motor coupled to the intraluminal
member to withdraw the intraluminal member from the vein at a predetermined speed.
        [0007c]Further disclosed therein is an apparatus for permanently occluding a vein,
comprising: an elongated intraluminal member shaped and dimensioned for passage through
blood vessels of a subject, the intraluminal member including a proximal end and a distal end,
wherein the distal end comprises a vein wall disruptor; a source of sclerosant; and a fluid
channel between the source of sclerosant and the distal end of the elongated intraluminal
member; a first motor coupled to the intraluminal member to move the intraluminal member; a
second motor coupled to the intraluminal member to withdraw the intraluminal member;
wherein the first motor is coupled to a first housing, and wherein the second motor is coupled
to a feeder.
        [0007d]    Also disclosed therein is provides a method for permanently occluding a
vein through the combined disruption of a vein vessel wall and application of a sclerosant,
comprising the following steps: advancing an elongated intraluminal member from an access
site and into the vein, wherein the intraluminal member has a portion thereof configured to
produce damage to the inner vessel wall of the vein under user control when performing a
defined movement; damaging the inner vessel wall by performing the defined movement of
the portion of the intraluminal member against the vein's endothelium while simultaneously
withdrawing the intraluminal member in an automated manner; injecting sclerosant into the
vein and onto the damaged inner vessel wall.
        [0007e]    Also disclosed therein is an apparatus for permanently occluding a vein,
comprising: an elongated intraluminal member shaped and dimensioned for passage through
blood vessels of a subject, the intraluminal member including a proximal end and a distal end,
wherein the distal end comprises a vein wall disruptor; means for moving the distal end of the
intraluminal member to damage the endothelium of a inner vein wall; and, means for
withdrawing the intraluminal member from the vein in an automated manner at a
predetermined speed.
        [0007f]    In some embodiments described herein, an apparatus can be configured for
permanently occluding a vein. The apparatus can have an elongated intraluminal member

shaped and dimensioned for passage through blood vessels of a subject. The intraluminal
member can include a proximal end and a distal end. The distal end can also include a vein
wall disruptor. An apparatus can further have a source of sclerosant. An apparatus can also
have a fluid channel between the source of sclerosant and the distal end of the elongated
intraluminal member.       An apparatus can further include a first motor coupled to the
intraluminal member to move the intraluminal member in a manner providing local vein
damage. An apparatus can further include a second motor coupled to the intraluminal member
to withdraw the intraluminal member.
        [0008]      The second motor may be able to withdraw the intraluminal member at
variable rates.   For example, the second motor can increase the rate of withdrawal of the
intraluminal member during the procedure.       In some embodiments, the second motor is
configured to withdraw the intraluminal member at a rate of approximately 1-4 mm per
second.
        [0009]      The apparatus can be used for permanently occluding a vein through the
combined disruption of a vein vessel wall and application of a sclerosant. The apparatus can
be used to advance an elongated intraluminal member from an access site and into the vein.
The intraluminal member can have a portion that damages the inner vessel wall of the vein and
is controlled by the user when performing a defined movement. The apparatus can damage the
inner vessel wall moving the portion of the intraluminal member against the vein's
endothelium in the defined motion while simultaneously withdrawing the intraluminal
member with a motor. The apparatus can further inject sclerosant into the vein and onto the
damaged inner vessel wall.
        [0010]      In some embodiments, the motor can withdraw the intraluminal member at
a non-constant rate during the damaging. In some embodiments, the motor can increase the
rate of withdrawal of the intraluminal member during the damaging.            In some further
embodiments, the motor can decrease the rate of withdrawal of the intraluminal member
during the damaging. In some further embodiments, the motor can withdraw the intraluminal
member at a rate of approximately 1-4 mm per second.
        [0011]      The foregoing is a summary and thus contains, by necessity, simplifications,
generalization, and omissions of detail; consequently, those skilled in the art will appreciate
that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other
aspects, features, and advantages of the devices and/or processes and/or other subject matter
described herein will become apparent in the teachings set forth herein.      The summary is
provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described
below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or

essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to be used as an aid in
determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0012]     FIG. 1 shows an embodiment of an assembly of a vascular treatment device.
         [0013]     FIG. 2 illustrates a longitudinal cross-sectional view of the embodiment
illustrated in FIG. 1.
         [0014]     FIG. 3 shows a longitudinal cross-section view of a cartridge with a syringe
and a stopcock attached.
         [0015]     FIG. 4 shows a longitudinal cross-sectional view of a handle.
         [0016]     FIG. 5 shows a perspective view of an embodiment of a feeder used in
connection with a vascular treatment device.
         [0017]     FIG. 6A shows a perspective view of one embodiment of a feeder.
         [0018]     FIG. 6B illustrates a top view of one embodiment of a feeder.
         [0019]     FIG. 6C illustrates a cut-away end view of one embodiment of a feeder.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         [0020]     The following description and examples illustrate preferred embodiments in
detail.    Those of skill in the art will recognize that there are numerous variations and
modifications of this invention that are encompassed by its scope.             Accordingly, the
description of a preferred embodiment should not be deemed to limit the scope of the present
invention.    In this description, reference is made to the drawings wherein like parts are
designated with like numerals throughout.
         [0021]      Figure 1 depicts a perspective view of one embodiment of exemplary
components of a vascular treatment device 10.          These components can be configured to
provide a range of functionalities to the vascular treatment device 10. In some embodiments, a
vascular treatment device 10 can include features configured for stimulating vascular ablation,
such as, for example, a wire, motor, and/or control features and/or features configured for
delivering liquid, such as, for example, a sheath or a catheter.     As depicted in Figure 1, a
vascular treatment device can include a handle 12 and a cartridge 14. As explained below in
greater detail, each of the handle and cartridge can include features configured for stimulating
vascular ablation and/or for delivering liquid. In one embodiment, and as depicted in Figure 1,
the handle 12 and the cartridge 14 can comprise separate pieces. In another embodiment, a
handle 12 and a cartridge 14 can comprise an integrated component. A person of skill in the
art will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of the

handle 12 and cartridge 14 but broadly includes the range of functions and uses of a vascular
therapy device.
        [0022]      As further depicted in Figure 1, the cartridge 14 can be, for example, sized
and shaped to engagingly connect to the handle 12. In one embodiment, and as shown in
Figure 1, this engaging connection can be achieved by fitting features of the handle 12 to
features of the cartridge 14.
        [0023]      Figure 2 depicts a side cross-section view of a similar embodiment of a
vascular treatment device 10 having a handle 12 and a cartridge 14. The vascular treatment
device 10 depicted in Figure 2 comprises the same features discussed in relation to Figure 1.
A person of skill in the art will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to
embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10 comprising a handle 12 and a cartridge 14, but
broadly encompasses the functionality of a vascular treatment device 10 as described below.
        [0024]      The embodiment of cartridge 14 shown in Figures 1 and 2 is illustrated in
greater detail in Figure 3. A vascular treatment device 10 can include an intraluminal member.
In some embodiments, an intraluminal member can comprise a wire. In some embodiments,
an intraluminal member can comprise a sheath surrounding the wire.
        [0025]      The cartridge 14 depicted in Figure 3 includes a sheath 30 affixed to and
extending from the cartridge 14, a wire 32, and a coupling 34. In some embodiments, the wire
32 can be, for example, fixed to the coupling 34. A person of skill in the art will recognize
that the wire 32 can be affixed to the coupling 34 through a variety of techniques and methods.
A person of skill in the art will further recognize that the wire 32 can be affixed to a range of
features of a vascular treatment device 10 configured for driving the wire 32. A strain relief
tube 33 can be provided where the sheath and wire exit the cartridge 14.
        [0026]      A wire 32 can comprise a variety of materials and geometric configurations.
In some embodiments, a wire 32 can be configured to facilitate injection of liquid into a
patient. For example, a wire 32 can be annular or channeled to allow fluid flow to the desired
injection point.   Similarly, a sheath 30 can comprise a variety of materials and geometric
configurations, and can, in some embodiments, be configured to facilitate injection of liquid
into a patient. For example, an annular sheath 30 configured for containing a wire can be
further configured to allow injection of liquid through the annular passage around the wire 32.
        [0027]      A wire 32 can comprise a variety of lengths. In some embodiments, a wire
32 can have a length matching the needs of the procedure. In some embodiments, a wire 32
can have a length, for example, of up to 10 cm, up to 25 cm, up to 75 cm, or up to 150 cm.
        [0028]      The sheath 30 can, in some embodiments, be configured to define a lumen
through which the wire 32 runs. In some embodiments, the sheath can be configured to allow

independent motion of the wire within the sheath. The sheath 30 can have a variety of inner
and outer diameters. In some embodiments, the sheath 30 can have an inner diameter ranging
from approximately 0.022 inches to 0.048 inches. In some embodiments, the sheath 30 can
have an outer diameter ranging from approximately 0.025 inches to 0.051 inches. In some
embodiments, the outer diameter of the sheath 30 can be in the range that is, for example,
consistent with the inner diameter of standard needles. In one embodiment, for example, the
sheath 30 can be sized and shaped to be insertable in a standard needle or vascular sheath
having, for example, an inner diameter ranging from approximately 0.0035 inches to 0.0160
inches, from approximately 0.0160 inches to 0.0420 inches, from approximately 0.0420 inches
to 0.0630 inches, or from approximately 0.0115 inches to 0.0630 inches.
         [0029]    In some embodiments, for example, the sheath 30 can be dimension to be
insertable through a needle diameter that is sufficiently small to enable a wide variety of
practitioners to perform the procedure.       Thus, in one embodiment, the maximum outer
diameter of the sheath 30 can be, for example, less than 0.035 inches to allow the sheath 30 to
be inserted through an intravenous needle or catheter having an inner diameter of less than
0.0039 inches, which needle size is sufficiently small to allow a wide range of practitioners to
perform the procedure.
         [0030]    The sheath 30 may also include external markings at regular intervals which
may guide the user to monitor the insertion or removal speed of the device 10.
         [0031]    Some embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10 can be configured for
use with injectant. In some embodiments, the cartridge 14 can be configured for holding an
injectant. Some embodiments of a vascular treatment device configured to inject an injectant
can include a container for storing an injectant and injection features, such as, for example, a
pump or a syringe. In some embodiments of a cartridge 14, a syringe 36 can fluidly connect
with the cartridge 14. Some embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10 and/or a cartridge
14 configured for use in connection with an injectant can be, for example, configured with
valves and connectors to facilitate such use. In some embodiments, a syringe 36 can, for
example, connect to a stopcock 38 on a cartridge 14. The stopcock 38 shown in Figure 3 can
be configured to allow the removal and/or attachment of a syringe to the vascular treatment
device 10 during a procedure. In some embodiments, a stopcock 38 can be configured to
allow reloading of fluid and/or exchanging of containers to, for example, change the injectant
or the concentration of the injectant. In some embodiments, the stopcock 38 can be configured
to provide additional functionality, such as, for example, mixing or aerating the injectant.
         [0032]    Figure 4 depicts a side cross-section view of one exemplary embodiment of
the handle 12.     The handle 12 can be, for example, formed of one or several pieces.

Additionally, the handle 12 can be formed using a variety of techniques and from a variety of
materials, such as, for example, natural materials, synthetic materials, metal, polymer, glass,
composites, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments, the handle 12 can be, for
example, formed by joining two outer casing pieces.
         [0033]    In some embodiments in which the handle 12 is separate from the cartridge
14, the handle 12 can define a receptacle 40 configured to receive the cartridge 14.           As
depicted in Figure 4, the receptacle 40 can, for example, include a male coupling 42 that can
be, for example, configured and positioned to receive female coupling 34 of the cartridge 14
when the cartridge 14 and the handle 12 engage. In some embodiments, the handle 12 can, for
example, include at least one motor 44. The exemplary embodiment of a handle 12 depicted
in Figure 4 includes a motor 44, a trigger 46, and a male coupling 42. As also depicted in
Figure 4, in some embodiments, the male coupling 42 can be drivably connected to the motor
44 such that the motor 44, when activated, drives the male coupling 42.
         [0034]    A vascular treatment device 10 can be configured to control the movement
of an intraluminal member. In some embodiments, a motor 44 can control the movement of
the intraluminal member. In some embodiments, of a vascular treatment device 10, a motor 44
can rotably drive an intraluminal member, such as, for example, a wire 32.
         [0035]      In some embodiments, a potentiometer 48 can be electrically coupled to
the motor 44 and can be configured to control the speed of the motor 44. In some
embodiments, control features can control the motor 44. In some embodiments, the control
features can mechanically, electrically, or communicatingly, e.g. wirelessly or via Bluetooth,
connect with the vascular treatment device 10. In some embodiments, the control features can
comprise a trigger 46. The trigger 46 can be, for example, mounted on the handle 12 and be
transitionable between a first state in which the motor 44 is not electrically coupled to a power
source 52, and a second state in which the motor 44 is electrically coupled to a power source
52.
         [0036]    In some embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10, and as discussed
above, activation of the motor 44 can cause rotation of the wire 32. In some embodiments, a
vascular treatment device 10 can be configured to generate a desired speed of wire 32 rotation.
In some embodiments, for example, a motor 44 can be configured to rotate a wire 32 up to
approximately 100 rpm, up to 500 rpm, up to 1,000 rpm, or up to 5,000 rpm. In some
embodiments, in which a vascular treatment device 10 is configured for use in varicose vein
and thrombectomy procedures the motor 44 can be configured for speeds of between 500 to
4,000 rpm. Some embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10 further comprise at least one
feedback feature, such as, for example, a built-in RPM display. A person of skill in the art will

recognize that a vascular treatment device 10 can be configured to generate a broad range of
speeds of wire 32 rotation and that the present disclosure is not limited to any specific speed of
rotation.
         [0037]     As depicted in Figure 4, some embodiments of the handle 12 can include,
for example, a power source 52 and a microswitch 54 connected to the motor 44. The
microswitch 54 may be interposed in an electrical circuit connecting the trigger 46 and the
motor 44. The microswitch 54 may be biased to an open position such that the circuit between
the trigger 46 and the motor 44 is open. When the cartridge 14 is engaged in the handle 12, the
cartridge may press against the microswitch 54, causing it to transition to a closed state,
thereby completing the electrical circuit connecting the trigger 46 and motor 44. For example,
the microswitch 54 may include two contacts with a conductor that is attached to one contact
and disconnected from the second contact when the microswitch 54 is in an open state. In one
embodiment, the conductor may include a strip of metal that hangs in the channel into which
the cartridge 14 is slid during engagement with the handle. As the cartridge 14 is engaged in
the handle 12, it pushes the metal strip out of the channel and into connection with the second
contact of the microswitch 54. One advantage gained from such configuration may be that a
user will not be able to activate the device inadvertently by pressing on the trigger 46 before
he/she is ready to use the device, i.e., before the cartridge 14 is fully engaged to the handle 12.
         [0038]     In some embodiments in which the handle 12 and the cartridge 14 are
separate components, the handle 12 can, for example, include a switch 56 as shown in Figure
4. The switch 56 can, for example, be configured to allow the cartridge 14 to be received by,
and secured in, the handle 12. The switch 56, in some embodiments, includes a grip 58
configured to permit a user to operate the switch 56 with a finger.
         [0039]     In some embodiments, one or more portions of the handle 12 can define a
trigger ring 60 in which the trigger 46 is at least partly disposed and about which the handle 12
can be, for example, so arranged as to be balanced when supported from only one or more
portions of the handle 12 that define the trigger ring 60. In some embodiments, the heaviest
component can be, for example, positioned below the trigger 46. In some aspects, positioning
of the heaviest component below the trigger 46 can assist in properly balancing the handle. In
some embodiments, in which the motor 44 is, for example, the heaviest component, the motor
44 can be located below the trigger 46 as shown in Figure 4.
         [0040]     The handle 12 can, for example, include features configured to facilitate in
the storage and injection of liquid.       In some embodiments, a handle 12 can include, for
example, a support 62 positioned to receive the syringe. The support 62 can have a variety of
sizes and shapes.     In some embodiments, the support 62 can be sized and shaped to be

compatible with a designated container, such as, for example, a standard syringe. The support
62 can, in further embodiments, be configured to prevent the container from falling out during
injection. In some embodiments, the support 62 can be configured to connectingly engage the
container.    In one embodiment, for example, the syringe may snap onto the support 62 when
the cartridge 14 with an attached syringe is engaged to the handle 12.
         [0041]     More detailed description of several of the above described components,
and other components of embodiment of a vascular treatment device can be found in U.S.
Publication No. 2005/0055040 and in U.S. Publication No. 2009/0270889, both of which are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. In general, the device pictured in Figures
1-4 is used to ablate blood vessels by feeding the wire and sheath into a vein to be ablated, and
rotating or otherwise moving the tip of the wire against the vein to damage the endothelium of
the inner vein wall. Before, during, or after this damaging process, sclerosant is injected into
the vein through the sheath or wire as described above. The combined effect of the damage
and the sclerosant results in a highly successful ablation procedure.
         [0042]     In performing these procedures, the physician usually initiates the scraping
and vein damaging process with the wire, and at the same time slowly pulls the wire back
down the vein toward the original access point to scrape along a large segment of the vein to
be ablated. The speed of removal is typically several mm per second, with 1 to 4 mm per
second having been found suitable. Maintaining a relatively constant removal rate manually
has been found difficult however. The physician may wish to withdraw tens of centimeters of
the wire at just a few millimeters per second.           Additionally, the benefits achieved by
controlling the amount of damage caused by the wire tip to the blood vessel wall is difficult to
achieve when pulling the vascular treatment device by hand. This can occur because of the
difficulty in maintaining a constant extraction speed over lengths of tens of centimeters.
         [0043]     In some embodiments, a vascular treatment device can include features to
control the degree to which the wire tip engages with the blood vessel walls. A vascular
treatment device 10 can, for example, be used in connection with a first motor and a second
motor. In some embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10 used in connection with a first
motor 44 and a second motor, the first motor 44 can be configured to controllably rotate the
wire 32. In some further embodiments of a vascular treatment device 10 having a first motor
44 and a second motor, the second motor can be configured to control the longitudinal
translation of the wire 32 back toward the access point. In some embodiments, the vascular
treatment device 10 can include features configured to rotate the wire 32 at a predetermined
speed and to simultaneously longitudinally translate the wire 32 at a predetermined speed. In
some embodiments, the speed of the wire 32 rotation and longitudinal translation can be

related to each other. In some embodiments, the speed of the wire 32 rotation and/or the
longitudinal translation of the wire 32 can be varied throughout the vascular therapy
procedure. In other embodiments, the speed of the wire 32 rotation and/or the longitudinal
translation of the wire 32 can be varied in response to user control or to other information. In
some embodiments, a feeder can comprise the second motor that is configured to
longitudinally translate the wire 32. A feeder can, in some embodiments, be configured to
controllably longitudinally translate an intraluminal member. A person of skill in the art will
also recognize that a feeder can be configured to provide for a variety of lengths of
longitudinal translation of a wire. Some embodiments, for example, of a translation device
can be configured to provide up to 50 cm, 75 cm, or over 100 cm of longitudinal translation.
Some embodiments of a vascular therapy device, for example, can longitudinally translate a
wire at speeds between 0 and up to about 20 mm per second.                 As mentioned above, a
controllable speed of between 1 and 4 mm per second can be useful in many procedures.
         [0044]     Figure 5 depicts one embodiment of a vascular therapy apparatus
configured to enable control of both the rate of wire rotation and longitudinal translation of the
wire. Figure 5 depicts a feeder 500 comprising an elongate track 502. The elongate track 502
can comprise a variety of shapes and dimensions. In the embodiment depicted in Figure 5, the
elongate track 502 comprises a U-shaped elongate member. The track 502 can be configured
to hold the vascular treatment device 504 that is described above with reference to Figures 1-4.
In some embodiments, a track 502 can be configured with features to facilitate longitudinal
translation of the vascular treatment device 504 including, at least one roller, at least one
bearing, at least one bushing, at least one air jet, at least one magnet, or other feature. Figure 5
depicts one embodiment of a track 502 comprising a belt 506. The belt runs along the bottom
of the elongate member, returning through a hollow bottom portion of the track 502. The belt
506 can include features for connecting the belt to the vascular treatment device 504. In some
embodiments, these features can comprise loop and hook fasteners, magnets, clamps, adhesive
strips, or other features. In one particular embodiment, the belt 506 can comprise either the
hook or the loop portion of a hook and loop fastener. The portion of the hook and loop
fastener associated with the belt 706 can be integrally formed with the belt or can be, for
example, mechanically or adhesively affixed to the belt 706. The vascular treatment device
704 can be configured to comprise the other half of the hook and loop faster affixed on the
bottom portion of the vascular treatment device 704 such that the half of the hook on loop
fastener on the vascular treatment device 704 can be brought into contact with the half of the
hook and loop fastener located on the belt 706.

        [0045]      Figure 5 depicts one embodiment of a track 502 in which the belt 506 is
driven by motor 512.        The motor 512 can be selected to match the power and speed
requirements of a specific embodiment of a track 502 with a belt 506. A person of skill in the
art will recognize that a variety of motors can be used in connection with the belt 506. The
speed of the motor 512 can be controlled with control features.              Figure 5 depicts one
embodiment of a control feature 518. Which may be a potentiometer coupled to a motor
control circuit inside the hollow bottom of the track 502.      In this embodiment, controller 518
is located on the track 502. In other embodiments, the controller 518 can be separate from the
track 502. The apparatus can additionally comprise a feedback feature, such as a display, that
provides information to the operator relating to the operation of the feeder 700.
        [0046]      The embodiment of a feeder 500 comprising a track 502 can be free
standing or can be mounted to another object. In the embodiment depicted in Figure 5, the
feeder 500 is attached to an articulating arm 508. A person of skill in the art will recognize
that an articulating arm can comprise a variety of components made of a variety of materials
and assembled in a variety of ways. In some embodiments, and as depicted in Figure 5, the
articulating arm can include a include features for affixing the arm to an object. In some
embodiments, these features can include, for example, a C-clamp. In one embodiment, a C
clamp is located at the end of an articulating arm and can be configured to allow fixation of the
articulating arm to, for example, an operating table or a hospital bed.
        [0047]      During the procedure, the physician would hold the handle of the device
504, holding the trigger down to initiate wire rotation and vessel damage as described above.
Before or after this has begun, motor 512 can be started and adjusted to the desired speed with
which the device should be pulled back along the track by the belt 506. It would be possible
also to utilize a lever, button, or other control feature on the handle to allow hands free wire
rotation as the device is also pulled back at the desired rate in the track.
        [0048]      Figure 6A depicts one embodiment of a mechanism configured to control
longitudinal translation of the wire in an automated manner. Figure 6A depicts a feeder 600
configured to longitudinally translate a rotating wire or wire/sheath combination 602. The
feeder 600 comprises a housing 604. The housing 604 can be made of a variety of materials
such as, for example, natural materials, synthetic materials, polymer, metal, glass, composite,
or any other material. A housing 604 can have a variety of shapes and sizes. The housing can
cover a variety of components such as, for example, at least one motor, at least one gear,
wiring, at least one roller, at least one bushing, at least one bearing, at least one antenna, at
least one switch, at least one computer chip, at least one pump, or other components. The
housing depicted in Figure 6A has an open top 606, a bottom (not shown), a first face 608,

which face is positioned relatively closest to the patient and allows the wire to pass into the
feeder, a second face (not shown), which face is positioned relatively closest to the device and
allows the wire to pass out of the feeder, a first side 610, and a second side (not shown). As
depicted in Figure 6A, the first face 608 can include a first slot 612 configured to allow the
wire 602 to pass through the plane of the first face 608. Similarly, the second face can include
a second slot 614 configured to allow the wire 602 to pass through the plane of the operator
face. In some embodiments, the slots can be configured to allow the wire 602 to be placed
into the housing 604 of the feeder 600.
         [0049]      In some embodiments, the feeder 600 can be free-standing.             In other
embodiments, the feeder 600 can be mounted to an object, such as, for example, to a table. As
depicted in Figure 6A, in one embodiment, the feeder can be mounted to an articulating arm
616. The articulating arm 616 can be configured to enable the desired positioning of the
feeder 600 relative to a patient's body. The articulating arm 616 can, for example, be fixedly
mounted to a table, cart, chair, wall, or other suitable object. In other embodiments, the
articulating arm 616 can include features to enable selective mounting to a variety of desired
objects, such features including, for example, at least one clamp, at least one suction cup, at
least one magnet, at least one adhesive treated area, or a variety of other affixing features.
         [0050]      Figure 6A additionally depicts a control 618. The control can be configured
to control aspects of the functioning of the feeder such as, for example, the feed rate. As
depicted in Figure 6A, control 618 can be located on the side 506 of the feeder 500. In other
embodiments, the control 618 can be located at any of a variety of positions on or connected to
the feeder 600.     In some embodiments, the control can be, for example, communicatingly
connected with the feeder 600. This connection can be, for example, mechanical, electrical,
optical, wireless, or by any of a variety of other connections.
         [0051]      Figure 6B depicts a top view of one embodiment of a feeder 600 configured
to longitudinally translate a sheath and/or wire 602. As depicted in Figure 6B, the feeder 600
comprises a housing 604. The housing 604 depicted in Figure 6B encloses at least a first roller
606 and a second roller 608. The rollers 606, 608 can comprise a variety of types, shapes, and
sizes. In some embodiments, for example, the rollers 606, 608 can be cylindrical rollers. In
other embodiments, the rollers can be, for example, spherical rollers.      In some embodiments,
at least one of the rollers 608 can be a drive roller. In some embodiments, the driven roller can
be, for example connected to a motor directly, by gears, by a belt, or by a variety of other
features. In the embodiment depicted in Figure 6B, roller 608 is a driven roller and roller 606
is a freely rotating idler roller. A person of skill in the art will recognize that the present

disclosure is not limited to the specific geometry, size, or drive characteristic of the rollers
606, 608.
         [0052]     The rollers 606, 608 can have different positions in different embodiments
of a feeder 600. The top roller 606 and the bottom roller 608 depicted in Figure 6B are
positioned to allow a wire 602 to pass between the two rollers 606, 608.                   In some
embodiments, the compressive force exerted by the rollers on the wire 602 can be constant or
variable. In some embodiments, the relative distance between the rollers can vary to alter the
compressive forces generated by the rollers 606, 608 on the wire 602. The rollers 606, 608
can additionally comprise a variety of materials.        In some embodiments, the rollers can
comprise natural materials, synthetic materials, polymer, composite, metal, glass, or any other
material.    In some embodiments, rollers 606, 608 can, for example, comprise a material
selected to control the compressive force exerted by the rollers 606, 608 on the wire 602. In
one embodiment, for example, the compressive force exerted by the rollers 606, 608 on the
wire 602 can be controlled by making the rollers 606, 608 of a compressible material. A
person of skill in the art will recognize that the present disclosure is not limited to any specific
roller configuration but broadly encompasses a wide variety or rollers.
         [0053]     In some embodiments, the first roller 606 and/or second roller 608 can be
connected to a variety of mechanisms to allow movement between positions.                    In one
embodiment, and as depicted in Figure 6B, first roller 606 can be located on the end of a
spring loaded movable arm 610. In one embodiment, the movable arm 610 can comprise an
open position in which the arm, and thereby first roller 606, is moved away from second roller
608.    In this position, a wire 602 can be moved into the slots depicted in Figure 6a and
positioned between the first roller 606 and the second roller 608. The movable arm can then
be moved into a second position in which the movable arm, and thereby the first roller 606, is
located in proximity to the second roller 608 and thereby holds the wire 602 between the first
roller 602 and the second roller 608.
         [0054]     In some embodiments, the sheath and/or wire 602 can comprise a tubular
sheath surrounding a wire. In embodiments in which a tubular sheath surrounds a wire, the
wire can connect to a first motor configured to rotably drive the wire in the vascular therapy
device described above.       The rollers 606, 608 can, for example, be configured to apply
sufficient compressive force on the sheath to allow the rollers 606, 608 to longitudinally drive
the sheath. The rollers 606, 608 can also be configured to generate insufficient compressive
forces to prevent or inhibit the rotation of the wire within the sheath. This can be controlled
by selection of a spring force that biases the arm 610 to engage the idler roller 606 with the
driven roller 608.

         [0055]      The feeder 600 can control the longitudinal translation of the sheath and/or
wire 602 by controlling the rotation of at least one of rollers 606, 608, which rotation feeds the
sheath and/or wire 602 in the direction of the rotation of the rollers 606, 608.
         [0056]      Figure 6C depicts a cut-away front view of feeder 600 depicted in Figure
6B. Figure 6C depicts the first roller 606 connected to the end of a movable arm 610, and the
second roller 608 drivably connected to a motor 612. As also depicted in Figure 6C, first
roller 606 comprises a wheel surface 614 and a flange 616. The wheel surface 606 can be
configured for contacting the wire. The flange 616 can, in some embodiments, be configured
to prevent the wire from moving out of the area between the first roller 606 and the second
roller 608. As also depicted in Figure 6C, the motor 612 can be connected to a controller 618.
Controller 618 can be configured to allow selective speed control of the motor and thereby of
the rotation of the second roller 608.
        [0057]       When using the feeder of Figures 6A-6C, the physician would first place the
wire/sheath into the vein of the patient, and then install a portion of the wire/sheath in the
feeder and between the rollers. The damaging of the vein can be initiated by actuating the
trigger on the vascular therapy device 10 described above. Before or after this actuation, the
motor 620 can be activated at the desired withdrawal speed.              As the feeder pulls the
wire/sheath back, the device 10 can be manually pulled back. Excess wire/sheath exiting the
feeder can also drape downward somewhat, as long as no sharp bends are formed that interfere
with the rotational motion of the wire within the sheath.
         [0058]      Based on this disclosure, a person of skill in the art will recognize that a
variety of techniques and mechanisms can be configured to control and regulate the speed of
longitudinal translation of a wire. A person of skill in the art will further recognize that these
techniques and mechanisms can be selected for implementation based on a variety of factors
including, for example, the extent of the desired wire movements, the target price of the
device, and size constraints. A person of skill in the art will further recognize that the present
disclosure includes a broad range of mechanisms and techniques to control the speed and a
broad range of speeds of longitudinal translation of the wire.
         [0059]      Each of the above described embodiments can be configured to include
control and feedback functionality. In some embodiments, a feeder and vascular treatment
device can include, for example, wiring, at least one sensor, at least one microprocessor, at
least one input capable feature, and other control or sensing components. These components
can be configured to detect the speed at which the sheath and/or wire is moving and to regulate
or alter that speed.

         [0060]     A person skilled in the art will recognize that each of these components can
be inter-connected and controllably connected using a variety of techniques and hardware and
that the present disclosure is not limited to any specific method of connection or connection
hardware. One or more of the components depicted in the figures can, in some aspects, be
excluded, and additional components can also be included, if desired.
         [0061]     The foregoing description details certain embodiments of the devices and
methods disclosed herein. It will be appreciated, however, that no matter how detailed the
foregoing appears in text, the devices and methods can be practiced in many ways. As is also
stated above, it should be noted that the use of particular terminology when describing certain
features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being
re-defined herein to be restricted to including any specific characteristics of the features or
aspects of the technology with which that terminology is associated.
         [0062]     It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications
and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the described technology. Such
modifications and changes are intended to fall within the scope of the embodiments. It will
also be appreciated by those of skill in the art that parts included in one embodiment are
interchangeable with other embodiments; one or more parts from a depicted embodiment can
be included with other depicted embodiments in any combination. For example, any of the
various components described herein and/or depicted in the Figures may be combined,
interchanged or excluded from other embodiments.
         [0063]     With respect to the use of substantially any plural and/or singular terms
herein, those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and/or from the
singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and/or application.            The various
singular/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.
         [0064]     It will be understood by those within the art that, in general, terms used
herein are generally intended as "open" terms (e.g., the term "including" should be interpreted
as "including but not limited to," the term "having" should be interpreted as "having at least,"
the term "includes" should be interpreted as "includes but is not limited to," etc.). It will be
further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim
recitation is intended, such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim, and in the absence
of such recitation no such intent is present. For example, as an aid to understanding, the
following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases "at least one" and
"one or more" to introduce claim recitations. However, the use of such phrases should not be
construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles "a" or
"an" limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments

containing only one such recitation, even when the same claim includes the introductory
phrases "one or more" or "at least one" and indefinite articles such as "a" or "an" (e.g., "a"
and/or "an" should typically be interpreted to mean "at least one" or "one or more"); the same
holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition, even
if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited, those skilled in the
art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the
recited number (e.g., the bare recitation of "two recitations," without other modifiers, typically
means at least two recitations, or two or more recitations). It will be further understood by
those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and/or phrase presenting two or more
alternative terms, whether in the description, claims, or drawings, should be understood to
contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms, either of the terms, or both terms.
For example, the phrase "A or B" will be understood to include the possibilities of "A" or "B"
or "A and B."
         [0065]     All references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety.   To the extent publications and patents or patent applications incorporated by
reference contradict the disclosure contained in the specification, the specification is intended
to supersede and/or take precedence over any such contradictory material.
         [0066]     The term "comprising" as used herein is synonymous with "including,"
"containing," or "characterized by," and is inclusive or open-ended and does not exclude
additional, unrecited elements or method steps.

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.       A vascular treatment apparatus comprising:
         a handle having:
         a trigger mounted on the handle and being transitionable between a first state and a
second state whereby transition of the trigger activates and de-activates a source of rotation;
         a male coupling rotably driven by the source of rotation;
         a cartridge engageable with the handle and having:
                  a female coupling so sized and shaped as to be engageable by, and once
         engaged by, to be rotated by the male coupling;
                  a wire having a proximal end fixed to the female coupling a main shaft
         extending therefrom and terminating at a distal end; and
                  a sheath fixed to and extending from the cartridge, the sheath defining a lumen
         through which the wire runs wherein the sheath, when the female coupling is not
         engaged by the male coupling, covers the distal end of the wire, and
         wherein as the male coupling and the female coupling fully engage each other and the
cartridge is engaged with the handle, the male coupling displaces female coupling detents to
allow the female coupling to slide within the cartridge, thereby causing the sheath, when the
female coupling is engaged by the male coupling, to slide back relative to the wire and
uncover the distal end of the wire.
2.       The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motor having a microswitch interposed
in an electrical circuit connecting the trigger and the motor and transitionable by engagement
of the cartridge and the handle from an open state to a closed state, thereby permitting the
trigger and motor to be electrically coupled to one another.
3.       The apparatus of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the system comprises a gate that is biased
to a first position that prevents engagement of the cartridge and the handle and is transitionable
to a second position that permits engagement of the cartridge and the handle.
4.       The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the handle includes a potentiometer electrically
coupled to the motor to control a speed of the motor.
5.       The apparatus of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the male coupling is biased toward
an expanded state and transitionable from the expanded state to a contracted state.

6.      The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the female coupling is so sized and shaped as to
transition the male coupling from the expanded state to the contracted state during engagement
of the handle and the cartridge.
7.      The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the male coupling is so sized and shaped as to return
to the expanded state once the cartridge and the handle are fully engaged.
8.      The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the male coupling comprises at least two prongs
separated by slitted portions.
9.      A vascular treatment apparatus comprising:
         a handle having:
         a male coupling;
         a cartridge engageable with the handle and having:
                  a female coupling so sized and shaped as to be engageable by the male
         coupling;
                  a wire having a proximal end fixed to the female coupling a main shaft
         extending therefrom and terminating at a distal tip being shaped so as to damage a
        vessel wall when contact is made therewith; and
                  a sheath fixed to and extending from the cartridge, the sheath defining a lumen
        through which the wire runs wherein the sheath, when the female coupling is not
         engaged by the male coupling, covers the distal end of the wire, and
        wherein as the male coupling and the female coupling fully engage each other and the
cartridge is engaged with the handle, the male coupling displaces female coupling detents to
allow the female coupling to slide within the cartridge, thereby causing the sheath, when the
female coupling is engaged by the male coupling, to slide back relative to the wire and
uncover the distal tip of the wire.
10.     The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the wire comprises a proximal end the distal end and
a main shaft.
11.     The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the distal tip comprises a first segment a second
segment and a third segment each of the segments being connected to one another at an angle.

12.     The apparatus of any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein the wire includes a plurality of
distal ends.
13.     The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the distal end includes a tip having triangular profile
so as to maximize trauma to a vessel wall when contact is made therewith.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
