ABSTRACT
         A hand tool frame has a track base (10) and at least one positioning
mount (30). The track base (10) has an elongated seat (12) and two rail tabs (14).
The rail tabs (14) are formed on the elongated seat (12). The at least one
positioning mount (30) is slidably mounted on the track base (10) and each has a
sliding seat (32), a holding board (34), a positioning board (36), and a
positioning bolt (38). The sliding seat (32) is slidably mounted on the rail tabs
(14) and has a through hole (322). The holding board (34) protrudes from the
sliding seat (32). The positioning board (36) is slidably mounted in the elongated
seat (12) and has a threaded hole (362). The positioning bolt (38) is mounted
through the through hole (322) and is screwed with the threaded hole (362).

C ->
                                             1
                                 HAND TOOL FRAME
           This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn> filed on <removed-date>, the entire contents of which are hereby
 5 incorporated by reference.
   1. Field of the Invention
            The present invention relates to a hand tool frame, and more particularly
   to a hand tool frame that may provide a positioning effect to hand tools that are
   mounted on the hand tool frame and may provide a stable clamping effect to the
10 hand tools.
   2. Description of Related Art
            A conventional hand tool frame is used to clamp and store hand tools,
   and has a track base and multiple positioning mounts. The positioning mounts
   are slidably mounted on the track base. Accordingly, hand tools such as sleeves,
15 wrenches or screwdrivers may be securely mounted on or clamped between the
   positioning mounts to store the hand tools on the track base of the conventional
   hand tool frame.
            However, the positioning mounts of the conventional hand tool frame
   lack engaging structures relative to the track base to hold or clamp the hand tools
20 securely on the track base at specific positions. When the conventional hand tool
   frame is moved or someone hits the hand tools that are stored on the track base of
   the conventional hand tool frame, the positions of the hand tools that are
   mounted on the positioning mounts may be changed, and the hand tools that are
   clamped between the positioning mounts may be separated from the positioning

                                               2
   mounts. Then, the hand tools cannot be securely mounted on the positioning
   mounts at fixed positions or cannot be securely clamped between the positioning
   mounts, and a user needs to adjust the positions of the hand tools after moving
   the conventional hand tool frame, and the hand tools may be separated from the
 5 positioning mounts and injure the users.
            To overcome the shortcomings, the present invention tends to provide a
   hand tool frame to mitigate the aforementioned problems.
            The main objective of the invention is to provide a hand tool frame that
   may provide a positioning effect to hand tools that are mounted on the hand tool
10 frame and may provide a stable clamping effect to the hand tools.
            The hand tool frame has a track base and at least one positioning mount.
   The track base is elongated and has an elongated seat and two rail tabs. The
   elongated seat has a U-shaped cross section and two ends. The two rail tabs are
   formed respectively on the two ends of the elongated seat to define a rail channel
15 between the rail tabs. Each rail tab has a top surface and a bottom surface. The at
   least one positioning mount is slidably mounted on the track base, and each one
   of the at least one positioning mount has a sliding seat, a holding board, a
   positioning board, and a positioning bolt. The sliding seat is slidably mounted on
   the top surfaces of the rail tabs of the track base and has a top and a through hole
20 defined through the sliding seat. The holding board is formed on and protrudes
   from the top of the sliding seat. The positioning board is slidably mounted in the
   elongated seat of the track base, selectively abuts the bottom surfaces of the rail
   tabs, and has a threaded hole defined through the positioning board. The
   positioning bolt is mounted through the through hole in the sliding seat and is

                                             3
   screwed with the threaded hole in the positioning board.
           Other objects, advantages and novel features of the invention will
   become more apparent from the following detailed description when taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
 5         Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a first embodiment of a hand tool frame in
   accordance with the present invention;
           Fig. 2 is an exploded perspective view of the hand tool frame in Fig. 1;
           Fig. 3 is a side view in partial section of the hand tool frame in Fig. 1;
           Fig. 4 is an enlarged end view in partial section of the hand tool frame in
10 Fig. 1;
           Fig. 5 is a side view in partial section of a second embodiment of a hand
   tool frame in accordance with the present invention;
           Fig. 6 is a side view in partial section of a third embodiment of a hand
   tool frame in accordance with the present invention; and
15         Fig. 7 is an operational perspective view of the hand tool frame in Fig. 1.
           With reference to Figs. 1 to 4, a first embodiment of a hand tool frame in
   accordance with the present invention comprises a track base 10 and at least one
   positioning mount 30.
            The track base 10 is elongated and has an elongated seat 12, two rail tabs
20 14, two outer brackets 20, and at least one magnetic element 26. The elongated
   seat 12 has a U-shaped cross section and two ends. The two rail tabs 14 are
   formed respectively on the two ends of the elongated seat 12 to define a rail
   channel 16 between the rail tabs 14. Each rail tab 14 has a top surface and a
   bottom surface. The outer brackets 20 are connected respectively with the rail

                                            4
   tabs 14. Each outer bracket 20 has a rail flange 22 formed on a top of the outer
   bracket 20 and extending toward the other outer bracket 20 to define a sliding
   channel 24 between the rail flange 22 and a corresponding one of the rail tabs 14.
   The at least one magnetic element 26 is securely mounted on a bottom of the
 5 elongated seat 12 and is located between the outer brackets 20. Preferably, each
   magnetic element 26 is securely mounted on the elongated seat 12 by a bolt and a
   nut.
         The at least one positioning mount 30 is slidably mounted on the track base
   10. Preferably, multiple positioning mounts 30 are implemented. Each one of the
10 at least one positioning mount 30 has a sliding seat 32, a holding board 34, a
   positioning board 36, and a positioning bolt 38. The sliding seat 32 is slidably
   mounted on the top surfaces of the rail tabs 14 of the track base 10 and has a top
   and a through hole 322 defined through the sliding seat 32. In addition, the
   sliding seat 32 may further have two wings 324 formed respectively on two sides
15 of the sliding seat 32 and mounted respectively and slidably in the sliding
   channels 24 between the outer brackets 20 and the rail tabs 14. The holding
   board 34 is formed on and protrudes from the sliding seat 32. In the first
   embodiment, the holding board 34 is bent to define a clamping recess 342 in the
   holding board 34. The holding board 34 may further have a holding flange 344
20 formed on a top of the holding board 34 and extending inclinedly toward a
   direction opposite the sliding seat 32.
            The positioning board 36 is slidably mounted in the elongated seat 12 of
   the track base 10, selectively abuts the bottom surfaces of the rail tabs 14, and
   has a threaded hole 362 defined in the positioning board 36. The positioning bolt

                                             5
   38 is mounted through the through hole 322 in the sliding seat 32 and is screwed
   with the threaded hole 362 in the positioning board 36.
             With reference to Fig. 5, in the second embodiment, the holding board
   34A of each positioning mount 30A may be a flat board and has a holding flange
 5 344A formed on a top of the holding board 34A.
             With reference to Fig. 6, in the third embodiment, the holding board
   34B of each positioning mount 30B may be a flat board.
            With reference to Figs. 2, 4 and 7, when the hand tool frame in the
   present invention is in use, the positioning bolts 38 of the positioning mounts 30
10 are loosened from the threaded holes 362 in the positioning boards 36 to make
   the positioning boards 36 leave the position where the positioning boards 36 abut
   the bottom surfaces of the rail tabs 14. Accordingly, the sliding seats 32 of the
   positioning mounts 30 can be pushed to slide along the rail channel 16 relative to
   the elongated seat 12. Accordingly, different kinds of hand tools such as pliers 70,
15 combination spanners 71, adjustable wrenches 72, socket wrenches 73,
   hexagonal wrenches 74 or screwdrivers 75 may be respectively inserted into a
   holding space that is formed between the holding boards 34,34A,34B of adjacent
   positioning mounts 30,30A,30B. Then, the positioning bolts 38 are tightly
   screwed with the threaded holes 362 in the positioning boards 36 to make the
20 positioning boards 36 abut against the bottom surfaces of the rail tabs 14.
   Consequently, the hand tools are securely clamped between the holding boards
   34,34A,34B of the positioning mounts 30,30A,30B without changing positions
   or separating from the positioning mounts 30,30A,30B even when a force is
   applied to the hand tool frame. In addition, the hand tool frame can be attached to

                                       6
an object for holding hand tools in a horizontal or vertical manner, so the hand
tool frame is versatile in use.

                                          7
The claims defining the invention are as followings:
         1. A hand tool frame comprising:
         a track base being elongated and having
                 an elongated seat having a U-shaped cross section and two ends;
and
                 two rail tabs formed respectively on the two ends of the elongated
seat to define a rail channel between the rail tabs, and each rail tab having a top
surface and a bottom surface; and
         multiple positioning mounts slidably mounted on the track base and
grouped into at least one pair of positioning mounts, and each positioning mount
having
                 a sliding seat slidably mounted on the top surfaces of the rail tabs
of the track base and having a top and a through hole defined through the sliding
seat;
                 a holding board formed on and protruding from the top of the
sliding seat and having a holding flange formed on a top of the holding board and
extending inclinedly toward a direction opposite the sliding seat of the
positioning mount., wherein the holding flanges on the holding boards of each
one of the at least one pair of positioning mounts extends toward each other;
                 a positioning board slidably mounted in the elongated seat of the
track base, selectively abutting the bottom surfaces of the rail tabs, and having a
threaded hole defined in the positioning board; and
                 a positioning bolt mounted through the through hole in the sliding
seat and screwed with the threaded hole in the positioning board.

                                           8
          2. The hand tool frame as claimed in claim 1, wherein the track base
further has two outer brackets connected respectively with the rail tabs;
          each outer bracket has a rail flange formed on a top of the outer bracket
and extending toward the other outer bracket to define a sliding channel between
the rail flange and a corresponding one of the rail tabs; and
          the sliding seat of each positioning mount has two wings formed
respectively on two sides of the sliding seat and mounted respectively and
slidably in the sliding channels between the outer brackets and the rail tabs.
          3. The hand tool frame as claimed in claim 2, wherein the track base
further has at least one magnetic element securely mounted on a bottom of the
elongated seat and located between the outer brackets.
          4. The hand tool frame as claimed in any one of claims 1 to3, wherein
the holding board of each positioning mount is bent to define a clamping recess
in the holding board.
          5. The hand tool frame as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
the holding board of each positioning mount is a flat board.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

