        ABSTRACT
        Described herein are drying methods for tuning one or more properties of a
microparticle. In one aspect, the release profile of a microparticle comprising a bioactive
agent therein can be affected by the disclosed drying methods.

             DRYING METHODS FOR TUNING MICROPARTICLE PROPERTIES
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012393962, a
national phase entry of PCT/US, the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein
by reference.
                                             BACKGROUND
        In order for a bioactive agent to work effectively, it must be delivered to a subject in a
way that is both safe and effective. An ideal phanmacokinetic profile of a bioactive agent is
one which allows for therapeutic concentrations of the bioactive agent to be reached in a
subject, while not exceeding the maximum tolerable dose. For certain pharmacological
applications, concentrations of the bioactive agent should remain at a therapeutic level for an
extended period of time until the desired therapeutic result is achieved.
         Unfortunately, conventional routes for administering bioactive agents often do not
provide ideal pharmacokinetic profiles, especially for bioactive agents that display high
toxicity and/or narrow therapeutic windows. It is known in the art that one way of affecting a
pharmocokinetic profile of a bioactive agent is to encapsulate the bioactive agent in a
microparticle. The microparticle can degrade over time, thereby releasing the bioactive agent
according to a release profile that is influenced by the microparticle. Oftentimes, however,
the microparticle may still not provide for a desired release profile, and in some instances can
even result in an undesirable release profile.
        As such, a need exists for microparticles and methods for the manufacture thereof
that can substantially provide a suitable release profile for a bioactive agent contained in or
on the microparticle. These needs and other needs are satisfied by the present invention.
                                               SUMMARY
        Described herein are methods for preparing a microparticle having a selected release
profile for the release of a bioactive agent contained therein. The disclosed methods can, in
one aspect, allow for the tuning of one or more microparticle properties, depending on the
method parameters, such as the drying parameters. In one aspect, a desired release profile of a
bioactive agent can be affected or provided by adjusting or tuning the microparticle
preparation method parameters disclosed herein.
        In one aspect, a method for preparing a microparticle having a selected release profile
for the release of a bioactive agent contained therein comprises: a) providing a slurry
comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive agent therein; b) selecting a release

profile for the bioactive agent; and c) drying the microparticle under a set of drying
parameters such that the selected release profile is substantially achieved.
        In a further aspect, a method for drying a microparticle comprises: a) providing a
slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive agent therein; and b) drying
the microparticle using an agitated filter dryer or a stirred cell filter dryer under a set of
selected drying parameters.
        In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for preparing a
microparticle having a selected release profile for the release of a bioactive agent contained
therein, the method comprising:
             a. providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive
                 agent therein;
             b. selecting a release profile for the bioactive agent;
             c.  selecting a set of drying parameters to achieve a drying rate such that the
                 selected release profile is substantially achieved; and
             d. drying the microparticle under the set of drying parameters wherein the drying
                 rate is directly proportional with the release rate of the bioactive agent from
                 the microparticle.
        In a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for drying a
    microparticle, comprising:
        a) providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive agent
             therein; and
        b) drying the microparticle using an agitated filter dryer under a set of drying
             parameters selected to achieve a drying rate;
             wherein the drying rate is directly proportional with the release rate of the
             bioactive agent from the microparticle.
        Also disclosed are microparticles made by the disclosed methods.
        The advantages of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which
follows, and in part will be obvious from the description, or may be learned by practice of the
aspects described below. The advantages described below will be realized and attained by
means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. It is
to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed
description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive.

                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         FIG. I is a plot of particle size distribution of BSA-loaded microparticles dried with 2
LPM nitrogen flow rate (fast drying conditions) (lot 00387-080).
         FIG. 2 is a plot of particle size distribution of BSA-loaded microparticles dried with
0.2 LPM nitrogen flow rate (slow drying conditions) (lot 00387-075)
         FIG. 3 is a plot of drying profiles of BSA-loaded microparticle showing the change in
residual moisture over time in the drying apparatus.
         FIG. 4 is a plot of cumulative in vitro release profiles of BSA-loaded microparticles
prepared using different rates of drying.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         Before the present compounds, compositions, composites, articles, devices, methods,
or uses are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that the aspects described below are
not limited to specific compounds, compositions, composites, articles, devices, methods, or
uses as such may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein
is for the purpose of describing particular aspects only and is not intended to be limiting.
         In this specification and in the claims that follow, reference will be made to a number
of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings:
         Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise," or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising," will be understood to imply
the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
         It must be noted that, as used in the specification and the appended claims, the
singular forms "a," "an" and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates

   otherwise. Thus, for example, reference to "a bioactive agent" includes mixtures of two or
   more such agents, and the like.
            "Optional" or "optionally" means that the subsequently described event or
   circumstance can or cannot occur, and that the description includes instances where the event
 5 or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not.
           Ranges may be expressed herein as from "about" one particular value, and/or to
   "about" another particular value. When such a range is expressed, another aspect includes
   from the one particular value and/or to the other particular value. Similarly, when values are
   expressed as approximations, by use of the antecedent "about," it will be understood that the
10 particular value forms another aspect. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each
   of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint, and independently of the
   other endpoint.
           A weight percent of a component, unless specifically stated to the contrary, is based
   on the total weight of the formulation or composition in which the component is included.
15         The term "biocompatible" refers a substance that is substantially non-toxic to a
   subject.
            "Biodegradable" is generally referred to herein as a material that will erode to soluble
   species or that will degrade under physiologic conditions to smaller units or chemical species
   that are, themselves, non-toxic (biocompatible) to the subject and capable of being
20 metabolized, eliminated, or excreted by the subject.
           The term "microparticle" is used herein to refer generally to a variety of structures
   having sizes from about 10 nm to 2000 microns (2 millimeters) and includes microcapsule,
   microsphere, nanoparticle, nanocapsule, nanosphere as well as particles, in general, that are
   less than about 2000 microns (2 millimeters). In one aspect, the bioactive agent is
25 encapsulated in the microparticle.
           A "bioactive agent" refers to an agent that has biological activity. The biological
   agent can be used to treat, diagnose, cure, mitigate, prevent (i.e., prophylactically),
   ameliorate, modulate, or have an otherwise favorable effect on a disease, disorder, infection,
   and the like. A "releasable bioactive agent" is one that can be released from a disclosed
30 microparticle. Bioactive agents also include those substances which affect the structure or
   function of a subject, or a pro-drug, which becomes bioactive or more bioactive after it has
   been placed in a predetermined physiological environment.
           Disclosed are compounds, compositions, and components that can be used for, can be
   used in conjunction with, can be used in preparation for, or are products of the disclosed

   methods and compositions. These and other materials are disclosed herein, and it is
   understood that when combinations, subsets, interactions, groups, etc. of these materials are
   disclosed that while specific reference of each various individual and collective combinations
   and permutation of these compounds may not be explicitly disclosed, each is specifically
 5 contemplated and described herein. For example, if a number of different polymers and
   agents are disclosed and discussed, each and every combination and permutation of the
   polymer and agent are specifically contemplated unless specifically indicated to the contrary.
   Thus, if a class of molecules A, B, and C are disclosed as well as a class of molecules D, E,
   and F and an example of a combination molecule, A-D is disclosed, then even if each is not
10 individually recited, each is individually and collectively contemplated. Thus, in this
   example, each of the combinations A-E, A-F, B-D, B-E, B-F, C-D, C-E, and C-F are
   specifically contemplated and should be considered disclosed from disclosure of A, B, and C;
   D, E, and F; and the example combination A-D. Likewise, any subset or combination of these
   is also specifically contemplated and disclosed. Thus, for example, the sub-group of A-E, B
15 F, and C-E are specifically contemplated and should be considered disclosed from disclosure
   of A, B, and C; D, E, and F; and the example combination A-D. This concept applies to all
   aspects of this disclosure including, but not limited to, steps in methods of making and using
   the disclosed compositions. Thus, if there are a variety of additional steps that can be
   performed it is understood that each of these additional steps can be performed with any
20 specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the disclosed methods, and that each
   such combination is specifically contemplated and should be considered disclosed.
            As described above, providing control over the delivery of a bioactive agent can be
   desirable when traditional formulations are not desirable for use. For example, some therapies
   may desire the slow release of a bioactive agent, the fast release of a bioactive agent, delivery
25 of the bioactive agent to specific tissues or fluids of a subject, or delivery of two or more
   agents, among many other delivery modes.
           In one aspect, as described herein, methods are provided for processing a
   microparticle that contains a bioactive agent therein to affect the release profile of the
   bioactive agent. In general, the release profile can be any desired release profile, depending
30 on the therapy for which the bioactive agent will be used. In a further aspect, the release
   profile is one or more of controlled-release, extended-release, modified-release, sustained
   release, pulsatile-release, delayed-release, or programmed-release, including cyclical-release.
           In one aspect, a release profile for a bioactive agent is selected. The selection of the
   release profile can occur at any time. In various aspects, the selection of the release profile

   can be made prior to, at, during, or after, the manufacture of the microparticle comprising the
   bioactive agent. In one aspect, a release profile can be selected prior to the manufacture of the
   microparticle, and the microparticle constituents can be selected so as to affect the selected
   release profile. In a further aspect, a release profile can be selected after the manufacture of
 5 the microparticle, and the final microparticle processing parameters can be selected and/or
   adjusted to provide the selected release profile.
           In a still further aspect, a release profile can be selected, and the microparticle
   manufacturing parameters can be iteratively adjusted so as to approach or achieve the
   selected release profile. The release profile can be achieved or substantially achieved. To that
10 end, a microparticle can be made that provides a release profile that approaches a selected
   release profile, but that might not necessarily achieve the selected profile. In a further aspect,
   the selected release profile can be achieved.
           Microparticles can be made by any emulsion method known in the art. First, a
   polymer, a releasable agent, e.g., a bioactive agent, and an organic solvent for the polymer
15 are mixed. An emulsion of this mixture can be formed through the addition of water, which is
   typically used as the continouous process medium. The emulsion will usually comprise
   organic droplets having the polymer, the organic solvent, and the releasable agent therein.
   The organic solvent is then removed by various means, such as liquid extraction, solvent
   evaporation, etc., which leaves behind a slurry comprising the microparticles having the
20 releasable agent therein. The slurry can also comprise residual water and/or residual organic
   solvent.
           In one aspect, the disclosed methods relate to processing a slurry comprising the
   microparticle so as to affect the release profile of a bioactive agent contained in or on the
   microparticle. In general, the slurry can comprise any other suitable material in addition to
25 the microparticle and the bioactive agent, depending on the selected processing conditions. In
   one aspect, the slurry comprises a liquid or solvent. In a further aspect, the slurry comprises
   water. In a still further aspect, the slurry comprises at least one organic solvent. In one aspect,
   the slurry can comprise both aqueous and organic solvents. The microparticle is typically
   dispersed or suspended in the slurry.
30         In a further aspect, the slurry comprising the microparticle can be dried under a set of
   drying parameters such that the selected release profile is substantially achieved. Thus, in one
   aspect, the way in which a microparticle is dried can affect the release profile of the bioactive
   agent contained in the microparticle. Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed

   that the way in which a microparticle is dried may affect the morphology of the microparticle,
   which thereby affects the release profile of the bioactive agent contained therein.
            In one aspect, the drying parameters which enable the selected release profile to be
   achieved can be known or unknown prior to drying the microparticle to achieve the selected
 5 release profile. Thus, in one aspect, in order to substantially achieve the selected release
   profile, multiple microparticle drying runs can be useful. For example, a microparticle can be
   formulated and dried under a set of drying parameters, and the release profile of the bioactive
   agent contained in the microparticle can be recorded. If the release profile is not substantially
   close to the selected or desired release profile, the drying parameters can be adjusted,
10 iteratively, until the selected or desired release profile is substantially achieved. By contrast,
   it may be possible to predict which set of drying parameters will provide the selected release
   profile.
            In general, the drying parameters can be any drying parameter. For air drying using
   non-mechanical means, for example, the drying parameters can be one or more of
15 temperature, pressure, humidity, or drying time. In a further aspect, for mechanical drying,
   the drying parameters can be one or more of temparature, pressure, humidity, drying time,
   stirring speed, agitation speed, or gas-flow on, in, or through the slurry. The gas flow-rate can
   range, for example, from 0.2 to abou 2.0 L/min. The drying gas can be any inert gas, such as
   air, nitrogen, argon, and the like.
20          The microparticles can be dried under a set of drying using any suitable method.
   When a dryer is used with the methods disclosed herein, the dryer can be any dryer which
   substantially achieves the results intended herein. In one aspect, the microparticle can be
   dried using an agitated filter dryer. In a further aspect, a disclosed method comprises drying a
   microparticle having a bioactive agent therein in an agitated filter dryer. An agitated filter
25 dryer is a drying device known in the art. Typically, an agitated filter dryer comprises a
   vessel with a filter plate at the bottom of the vessel. A slurry can be loaded into the vessel,
   and dried optionally under reduced pressure (e.g., vacuum) and/or under a stream of gas, such
   as air or an inert gas, such as nitrogen or argon, with mechanical agitation of the slurry by
   scraping blades, which are driven by an agitator shaft. The entire vessel can be kept at desired
30 temperature by having a jacketed vessel, and/or other jacketed components through which
   heat transfer medium can be passed. Drying parameters for an agitated filter dryer can
   include without limitation, temperature, pressure, humidity, drying time, agitation speed,
   amount of washing medium, including the number of washings, speed of scraping blades,
   amount of venting, discharge mechanism, inert gas in-flow, among others. In general, any

   type of agitated filter dryer can be used. In a further aspect, a Nutsche filter can be used. A
   Nutsche filter is a type of agitated filter dryer. In a still further aspect, a stirred cell dryer can
   be used, such as a commercially available stirred cell dryer, e.g., a MILLIPORE stirred cell
   dryer.
 5         It should be appreciated that in one aspect, the use of an agitated filter dryer can be
   beneficial to overcome challenges encountered with traditional bulk material drying methods
   in the microparticle art, including, for example, the use of Sweco dryers. A Sweco dryer is
   typically comprised of a vessel which shakes to agitate the bulk material. Oftentimes with the
   use of a Sweco dryer, large agglomerates can form, which have to be separated from the final
10 powder. This is partly due to the fact that traditional Sweco dryers are not equipped with a
   mechanical stirring or scraping means, but rather simply shake a vessel of bulk material while
   drying. It should be appreciated that, in one aspect, the use of an agitated filter dryer can
   provide for good particle distrubution with fewer agglomerates, and also allow for the control
   of the drying parameters, as discussed above. In a further aspect, however, a microparticle
15 can be dried using a Sweco dryer.
           In one aspect, microparticles are disclosed that are produced by the disclosed
   methods. In general, the microparticles disclosed herein can be any suitable microparticle. In
   one aspect, a bioactive agent is encapsulated within the microparticle. In another aspect, the
   bioactive agent is associated with the microparticle. In one aspect, the microparticle
20 comprises a suitable biocompatible and biodegradable or non-biodegradable polymer. The
   polymers can be homopolymers or copolymers, including without limitation block or blocky
   co- or ter- polymers, random co- or ter- polymers, star polymers, or dendrimers. Any desired
   molecular weight polymer can be used, depending on the desired properties of the
   microparticle. In certain aspects, if a high strength microparticle is desired, then high
25 molecular weight polymers can be used, for example, to meet strength requirements. In other
   aspects, low or medium molecular weight polymers can be used when, for example, when
   resorption time of the polymer, rather than material strength is desired.
           When a biodegradable polymer is used, the microparticle can be formulated so as to
   degrade within a desired time interval, once present in a subject. In some aspects, the time
30 interval can be from about less than one day to about 1 month. Longer time intervals can
   extend to 6 months, including for example, polymer matrices that degrade from about > 0 to
   about 6 months, or from about 1 to about 6 months. In other aspects, the polymer can degrade
   in longer time intervals, up to 2 years or longer, including, for example, from about > 0 to
   about 2 years, or from about 1 month to about 2 years.

           In one aspect, the desired release profile can influence the selection of the polymer. A
   biocompatible polymer, for example, can be selected so as to release or allow the release of a
   bioactive agent therefrom at a desired lapsed time after the microparticle has been
   administered to a subject. For example, the polymer can be selected to release or allow the
 5 release of the bioactive agent prior to the bioactive agent beginning to diminish its activity, as
   the bioactive agent begins to diminish in activity, when the bioactive agent is partially
   diminished in activity, for example at least 25%, at least 50% or at least 75% diminished,
   when the bioactive agent is substantially diminished in activity, or when the bioactive agent
   is completely gone or no longer has activity.
10         In one aspect, the polymer can be one or more of polyesters, polyhydroxyalkanoates,
   polyhydroxybutyrates, polydioxanones, polyhydroxyvalerates, polyanhydrides,
   polyorthoesters, polyphosphazenes, polyphosphates, polyphosphoesters, polydioxanones,
   polyphosphoesters, polyphosphates, polyphosphonates, polyphosphates,
   polyhydroxyalkanoates, polycarbonates, polyalkylcarbonates, polyorthocarbonates,
15 polyesteramides, polyamides, polyamines, polypeptides, polyurethanes, polyalkylene
   alkylates, polyalkylene oxalates, polyalkylene succinates, polyhydroxy fatty acids,
   polyacetals, polycyanoacrylates, polyketals, polyetheresters, polyethers, polyalkylene glycols,
   polyalkylene oxides, polyethylene glycols, polyethylene oxides, polypeptides,
   polysaccharides, or polyvinyl pyrrolidones. Other non-biodegradable but durable polymers
20 include without limitation ethylene-vinyl acetate co-polymer, polytetrafluoroethylene,
   polypropylene, polyethylene, and the like. Likewise, other suitable non-biodegradable
   polymers include without limitation silicones and polyurethanes.
           In a further aspect, the polymer can be a poly(lactide), a poly(glycolide), a
   poly(lactide-co-glycolide), a poly(caprolactone), a poly(orthoester), a poly(phosphazene), a
25 poly(hydroxybutyrate) or a copolymer containing a poly(hydroxybutarate), a poly(lactide-co
   caprolactone), a polycarbonate, a polyesteramide, a polyanhydride, a poly(dioxanone), a
   poly(alkylene alkylate), a copolymer of polyethylene glycol and a polyorthoester, a
   biodegradable polyurethane, a poly(amino acid), a polyamide, a polyesteramide, a
   polyetherester, a polyacetal, a polycyanoacrylate, a poly(oxyethylene)/poly(oxypropylene)
30 copolymer, polyacetals, polyketals, polyphosphoesters, polyhydroxyvalerates or a copolymer
   containing a polyhydroxyvalerate, polyalkylene oxalates, polyalkylene succinates,
   poly(maleic acid), and copolymers, terpolymers, combinations, or blends thereof.
           In a still further aspect, useful biocompatible polymers are those that comprise one or
   more residues of lactic acid, glycolic acid, lactide, glycolide, caprolactone, hydroxybutyrate,

   hydroxyvalerates, dioxanones, polyethylene glycol (PEG), polyethylene oxide, or a
   combination thereof. In a still further aspect, useful biocompatible polymers are those that
   comprise one or more residues of lactide, glycolide, caprolactone, or a combination thereof.
           In one aspect, useful biodegradable polymers are those that comprise one or more
 5 blocks of hydrophilic or water soluble polymers, including, but not limited to, polyethylene
   glycol, (PEG), or polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), in combination with one or more blocks
   another biocompabible or biodegradable polymer that comprises lactide, glycolide,
   caprolactone, or a combination thereof.
           In specific aspects, the biodegradable polymer can comprise one or more lactide
10 residues. To that end, the polymer can comprise any lactide residue, including all racemic and
   stereospecific forms of lactide, including, but not limited to, L-lactide, D-lactide, and D,L
   lactide, or a mixture thereof. Useful polymers comprising lactide include, but are not limited
   to poly(L-lactide), poly(D-lactide), and poly(DL-lactide); and poly(lactide-co-glycolide),
   including poly(L-lactide-co-glycolide), poly(D-lactide-co-glycolide), and poly(DL-lactide
15 co-glycolide); or copolymers, terpolymers, combinations, or blends thereof. Lactide/glycolide
   polymers can be conveniently made by melt polymerization through ring opening of lactide
   and glycolide monomers. Additionally, racemic DL-lactide, L-lactide, and D-lactide
   polymers are commercially available. The L-polymers are more crystalline and resorb slower
   than DL- polymers. In addition to copolymers comprising glycolide and DL-lactide or L
20 lactide, copolymers of L-lactide and DL-lactide are commercially available. Homopolymers
   of lactide or glycolide are also commercially available.
           When the biodegradable polymer is poly(lactide-co-glycolide), poly(lactide), or
   poly(glycolide), the amount of lactide and glycolide in the polymer can vary. In a further
   aspect, the biodegradable polymer contains 0 to 100 mole %, 40 to 100 mole %, 50 to 100
25 mole %, 60 to 100 mole %, 70 to 100 mole %, or 80 to 100 mole % lactide and from 0 to 100
   mole %, 0 to 60 mole %, 10 to 40 mole %, 20 to 40 mole %, or 30 to 40 mole % glycolide,
   wherein the amount of lactide and glycolide is 100 mole %. In a further aspect, the
   biodegradable polymer can be poly(lactide), 95:5 poly(lactide-co-glycolide) 85:15
   poly(lactide-co-glycolide), 75:25 poly(lactide-co-glycolide), 65:35 poly(lactide-co
30 glycolide), or 50:50 poly(lactide-co-glycolide), where the ratios are mole ratios.
           In a further aspect, the polymer can be a poly(caprolactone) or a poly(lactide-co
   caprolactone). In one aspect, the polymer can be a poly(lactide-caprolactone), which, in
   various aspects, can be 95:5 poly(lactide-co-caprolactone), 85:15 poly(lactide-co
   caprolactone), 75:25 poly(lactide-co- caprolactone), 65:35 poly(lactide-co- caprolactone), or

   50:50 poly(lactide-co- caprolactone), where the ratios are mole ratios.
           It is understood that any combination of the aforementioned biodegradable polymers
   can be used, including, but not limited to, copolymers thereof, mixtures thereof, or blends
   thereof. Likewise, it is understood that when a residue of a biodegradable polymer is
 5 disclosed, any suitable polymer, copolymer, mixture, or blend, that comprises the disclosed
   residue, is also considered disclosed. To that end, when multiple residues are individually
   disclosed (i.e., not in combination with another), it is understood that any combination of the
   individual residues can be used.
           In general, the microparticle can be any microparticle made from a suitable starting
10 material. In one aspect, as described above, the microparticle can be made out of a suitable
   polymer. The microparticle can contain and effect the release of the bioactive agent contained
   therein. The microparticle can be comprised of any of those polymers mentioned above or
   any polymer used in the microparticle art. In general, the above mentioned polymers can be
   cross-linked to a certain level, which thereby can form a microparticle of the polymer, as is
15 known in the art.
           In one aspect, the disclosed microparticles can have an average or mean particle size
   of from about 20 microns to about 125 microns. In one embodiment the range of mean
   particle size is from about 40 microns to about 90 microns. In another embodiment the range
   of mean particle sizes is from about 50 microns to about 80 microns. Particle size
20 distributions are measured by laser diffraction techniques known to those of skill in the art.
           In a further aspect, the bioactive agent can be encapsulated, microencapsulated, or
   otherwise contained within a microparticle. The microparticle can modulate the release of the
   bioactive agent. The microparticle can comprise any desired amount of the bioactive agent.
   For example, the microparticle can comprise 1%, 5%, 10%, 2 0%,       3
                                                                          0%, 4 0%, 50%,  60
                                                                                             %,
25 70%, 80%, 90%, 95% by weight bioactive agent, relative to the weight of the microparticle,
   including any range between the disclosed percentages.
           The microparticles can be made using methods known in the art, including, for
   example, those methods disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2007/0190154 to Zeigerson,
   published August 16, 2007, and U.S. Patent No. 5,407,609 to Tice et al., both of which are
30 incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference for teachings of microparticle
   preparation methods. As will be apparent, depending upon processing conditions, the
   polymer used as a starting material in the admixing step may or may not be the same polymer
   present in the final implantable composite. For example, the polymer during processing may
   undergo polymerization or depolymerization reactions, which ultimately can produce a

   different polymer that was used prior to processing. Thus, the term "polymer" as used herein
   covers the polymers used as starting materials as well as the final polymer present in the
   device produced by the methods described herein. Methods for making microparticles can be
   used in combination with the drying methods and dyring parameters described above.
 5          As discussed above, the microparticle comprises a bioactive agent. The bioactive
   agent can be a releasable bioactive agent, i.e., a bioactive agent that can be released from the
   microparticle into adjacent tissues or fluids of a subject. In certain aspects, the bioactive agent
   can be in or on the microparticle.
            Various forms of the bioactive agent can be used, which are capable of being released
10 from the microparticle into adjacent tissues or fluids. To that end, a liquid or solid bioactive
   agent can be incorporated into the implantable composites described herein. The bioactive
   agents are at least very slightly water soluble, and preferably moderately water soluble. The
   bioactive agents can include salts of the active ingredient. As such, the bioactive agents can
   be acidic, basic, or amphoteric salts. They can be nonionic molecules, polar molecules, or
15 molecular complexes capable of hydrogen bonding. The bioactive agent can be included in
   the compositions in the form of, for example, an uncharged molecule, a molecular complex, a
   salt, an ether, an ester, an amide, polymer drug conjugate, or other form to provide the
   effective biological or physiological activity.
            Examples of bioactive agents that incorporated into systems herein include, but are
20 not limited to, peptides, proteins such as hormones, enzymes, antibodies and the like, nucleic
   acids such as aptamers, iRNA, DNA , RNA, antisense nucleic acid or the like, antisense
   nucleic acid analogs or the like, low-molecular weight compounds, or high-molecular-weight
   compounds. Bioactive agents contemplated for use in the disclosed implantable composites
   include anabolic agents, antacids, anti-asthmatic agents, anti-cholesterolemic and anti-lipid
25 agents, anti-coagulants, anti-convulsants, anti-diarrheals, anti-emetics, anti-infective agents
   including antibacterial and antimicrobial agents, anti-inflammatory agents, anti-manic agents,
   antimetabolite agents, anti-nauseants, anti-neoplastic agents, anti-obesity agents, anti-pyretic
   and analgesic agents, anti-spasmodic agents, anti-thrombotic agents, anti-tussive agents, anti
   uricemic agents, anti-anginal agents, antihistamines, appetite suppressants, biologicals,
30 cerebral dilators, coronary dilators, bronchiodilators, cytotoxic agents, decongestants,
   diuretics, diagnostic agents, erythropoietic agents, expectorants, gastrointestinal sedatives,
   hyperglycemic agents, hypnotics, hypoglycemic agents, immunomodulating agents, ion
   exchange resins, laxatives, mineral supplements, mucolytic agents, neuromuscular drugs,

   peripheral vasodilators, psychotropics, sedatives, stimulants, thyroid and anti-thyroid agents,
   tissue growth agents, uterine relaxants, vitamins, or antigenic materials.
            Other bioactive agents include androgen inhibitors, polysaccharides, growth factors,
   hormones, anti-angiogenesis factors, dextromethorphan, dextromethorphan hydrobromide,
 5 noscapine, carbetapentane citrate, chlophedianol hydrochloride, chlorpheniramine maleate,
   phenindamine tartrate, pyrilamine maleate, doxylamine succinate, phenyltoloxamine citrate,
   phenylephrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
   hydrochloride, ephedrine, codeine phosphate, codeine sulfate morphine, mineral
   supplements, cholestryramine, N-acetylprocainamide, acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen,
10 phenyl propanolamine hydrochloride, caffeine, guaifenesin, aluminum hydroxide,
   magnesium hydroxide, peptides, polypeptides, proteins, amino acids, hormones, interferons,
   cytokines, and vaccines.
           Representative drugs that can be used as bioactive agents in the microparticles
   include, but are not limited to, peptide drugs, protein drugs, desensitizing materials, antigens,
15 anti-infective agents such as antibiotics, antimicrobial agents, antiviral, antibacterial,
   antiparasitic, antifungal substances and combination thereof, antiallergenics, androgenic
   steroids, decongestants, hypnotics, steroidal anti-inflammatory agents, anti-cholinergics,
   sympathomimetics, sedatives, miotics, psychic energizers, tranquilizers, vaccines, estrogens,
   progestational agents, humoral agents, prostaglandins, analgesics, antispasmodics,
20 antimalarials, antihistamines, cardioactive agents, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents,
   antiparkinsonian agents, antihypertensive agents, P-adrenergic blocking agents, nutritional
   agents, and the benzophenanthridine alkaloids. The agent can further be a substance capable
   of acting as a stimulant, sedative, hypnotic, analgesic, anticonvulsant, and the like.
           The microparticle can comprise a large number of bioactive agents either singly or in
25 combination. Other bioactive agents include but are not limited to analgesics such as
   acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, and the like; anesthetics such as lidocaine, xylocaine,
   and the like; anorexics such as dexadrine, phendimetrazine tartrate, and the like; antiarthritics
   such as methylprednisolone, ibuprofen, and the like; antiasthmatics such as terbutaline
   sulfate, theophylline, ephedrine, and the like; antibiotics such as sulfisoxazole, penicillin G,
30 ampicillin, cephalosporins, amikacin, gentamicin, tetracyclines, chloramphenicol,
   erythromycin, clindamycin, isoniazid, rifampin, and the like; antifungals such as
   amphotericin B, nystatin, ketoconazole, and the like; antivirals such as acyclovir, amantadine,
   and the like; anticancer agents such as cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, etretinate, and the

   like; anticoagulants such as heparin, warfarin, and the like; anticonvulsants such as phenytoin
   sodium, diazepam, and the like; antidepressants such as isocarboxazid, amoxapine, and the
   like;antihistamines such as diphenhydramine HCl, chlorpheniramine maleate, and the like;
   hormones such as insulin, progestins, estrogens, corticoids, glucocorticoids, androgens, and
 5 the like; tranquilizers such as thorazine, diazepam, chlorpromazine HCl, reserpine,
   chlordiazepoxide HCl, and the like; antispasmodics such as belladonna alkaloids,
   dicyclomine hydrochloride, and the like; vitamins and minerals such as essential amino acids,
   calcium, iron, potassium, zinc, vitamin B12 , and the like; cardiovascular agents such as
   prazosin HCl, nitroglycerin, propranolol HCl, hydralazine HCl, pancrelipase, succinic acid
10 dehydrogenase, and the like; peptides and proteins such as LHRH, somatostatin, calcitonin,
   growth hormone, glucagon-like peptides, growth releasing factor, angiotensin, FSH, EGF,
   bone morphogenic protein (BMP), erythopoeitin (EPO), interferon, interleukin, collagen,
   fibrinogen, insulin, Factor VIII, Factor IX, Enbrel*, Rituxam*, Herceptin*, alpha
   glucosidase, Cerazyme/Ceredose*, vasopressin, ACTH, human serum albumin, gamma
15 globulin, structural proteins, blood product proteins, complex proteins, enzymes, antibodies,
   monoclonal antibodies, and the like; prostaglandins; nucleic acids; carbohydrates; fats;
   narcotics such as morphine, codeine, and the like, psychotherapeutics; anti-malarials, L-dopa,
   diuretics such as furosemide, spironolactone, and the like; antiulcer drugs such as rantidine
   HCl, cimetidine HCl, and the like.
20          The bioactive agent can also be an immunomodulator, including, for example,
   cytokines, interleukins, interferon, colony stimulating factor, tumor necrosis factor, and the
   like; allergens such as cat dander, birch pollen, house dust mite, grass pollen, and the like;
   antigens of bacterial organisms such as Streptococcus pneumoniae,Haemophilus influenzae,
   Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcuspyrogenes, Corynebacterium diphteriae,Listeria
25 monocytogenes, Bacillus anthracis,Clostridium tetani, Clostridium botulinum, Clostridium
   perfringens. Neisseria meningitides, Neisseriagonorrhoeae,Streptococcus mutans.
   Pseudomonas aeruginosa,Salmonella typhi, Haemophilusparainfluenzae,Bordetella
   pertussis, Francisellatularensis, Yersinia pestis, Vibrio cholerae,Legionellapneumophila,
   Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mycobacterium leprae, Treponemapallidum, Leptspirosis
30 interrogans,Borrelia burgddorferi,Campylobacterjejuni,and the like; antigens of such
   viruses as smallpox, influenza A and B, respiratory synctial, parainfluenza, measles, HIV,
   SARS, varicella-zoster, herpes simplex 1 and 2, cytomeglavirus, Epstein-Barr, rotavirus,
   rhinovirus, adenovirus, papillomavirus, poliovirus, mumps, rabies, rubella, coxsackieviruses,
   equine encephalitis, Japanese encephalitis, yellow fever, Rift Valley fever, lymphocytic

   choriomeningitis, hepatitis B, and the like; antigens of such fungal, protozoan, and parasitic
   organisms such as Cryptococcuc neoformans, Histoplasma capsulatum, Candida albicans,
   Candidatropicalis, Nocardia asteroids,Rickettsia ricketsii,Rickettsia typhi, Mycoplasma
   pneumoniae, Chlamydapsittaci, Chlamydia trachomatis,Plasmodiumfalciparum,
 5 Trypanasomabrucei, Entamoeba histolytica, Toxoplasma gondii, Trichomonas vaginalis,
   Schistosoma mansoni, and the like. These antigens may be in the form of whole killed
   organisms, peptides, proteins, glycoproteins, carbohydrates, or combinations thereof.
           In a further specific aspect, the bioactive agent comprises an antibiotic. The antibiotic
   can be, for example, one or more of Amikacin, Gentamicin, Kanamycin, Neomycin,
10 Netilmicin, Streptomycin, Tobramycin, Paromomycin, Ansamycins, Geldanamycin,
   Herbimycin, Carbacephem, Loracarbef, Carbapenems, Ertapenem, Doripenem,
   Imipenem/Cilastatin, Meropenem, Cephalosporins (First generation), Cefadroxil, Cefazolin,
   Cefalotin or Cefalothin, Cefalexin, Cephalosporins (Second generation), Cefaclor,
   Cefamandole, Cefoxitin, Cefprozil, Cefuroxime, Cephalosporins (Third generation),
15 Cefixime, Cefdinir, Cefditoren, Cefoperazone, Cefotaxime, Cefpodoxime, Ceftazidime,
   Ceftibuten, Ceftizoxime, Ceftriaxone, Cephalosporins (Fourth generation), Cefepime,
   Cephalosporins (Fifth generation), Ceftobiprole, Glycopeptides, Teicoplanin, Vancomycin,
   Macrolides, Azithromycin, Clarithromycin, Dirithromycin, Erythromycin, Roxithromycin,
   Troleandomycin, Telithromycin, Spectinomycin, Monobactams, Aztreonam, Penicillins,
20 Amoxicillin, Ampicillin, Azlocillin, Carbenicillin, Cloxacillin, Dicloxacillin, Flucloxacillin,
   Mezlocillin, Meticillin, Nafcillin, Oxacillin, Penicillin, Piperacillin, Ticarcillin, Polypeptides,
   Bacitracin, Colistin, Polymyxin B, Quinolones, Ciprofloxacin, Enoxacin, Gatifloxacin,
   Levofloxacin, Lomefloxacin, Moxifloxacin, Norfloxacin, Ofloxacin, Trovafloxacin,
   Sulfonamides, Mafenide, Prontosil (archaic), Sulfacetamide, Sulfamethizole, Sulfanilimide
25 (archaic), Sulfasalazine, Sulfisoxazole, Trimethoprim, Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole (Co
   trimoxazole) (TMP-SMX), Tetracyclines, including Demeclocycline, Doxycycline,
   Minocycline, Oxytetracycline, Tetracycline, and others; Arsphenamine, Chloramphenicol,
   Clindamycin, Lincomycin, Ethambutol, Fosfomycin, Fusidic acid, Furazolidone, Isoniazid,
   Linezolid, Metronidazole, Mupirocin, Nitrofurantoin, Platensimycin, Pyrazinamide,
30 Quinupristin/Dalfopristin, Rifampicin (Rifampin in U.S.), Tinidazole, or a combination
   thereof. In one aspect, the bioactive agent can be a combination of Rifampicin (Rifampin in
   U.S.) and Minocycline.
           In certain aspects, the bioactive agent can be present as a component in a
   pharmaceutical composition. Pharmaceutical compositions can be conveniently prepared in a

   desired dosage form, including, for example, a unit dosage form or controlled release dosage
   form, and prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. In general,
   pharmaceutical compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing the bioactive
   agent into association with a liquid carrier or a finely divided solid carrier, or both. The
 5 pharmaceutical carrier employed can be, for example, a solid, liquid, or gas. Examples of
   solid carriers include lactose, terra alba, sucrose, talc, gelatin, agar, pectin, acacia, magnesium
   stearate, and stearic acid. Examples of liquid carriers are sugar syrup, peanut oil, olive oil,
   and water. Examples of gaseous carriers include carbon dioxide and nitrogen. Other
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or components that can be mixed with the bioactive
10 agent can include, for example, a fatty acid, a sugar, a salt, a water-soluble polymer such as
   polyethylene glycol, a protein, polysacharride, or carboxmethyl cellulose, a surfactant, a
   plasticizer, a high- or low-molecular-weight porosigen such as polymer or a salt or sugar, or a
   hydrophobic low-molecular-weight compound such as cholesterol or a wax.
           The microparticle can be administered to any desired subject. The subject can be a
15 vertebrate, such as a mammal, a fish, a bird, a reptile, or an amphibian. The subject of the
   herein disclosed methods can be, for example, a human, non-human primate, horse, pig,
   rabbit, dog, sheep, goat, cow, cat, guinea pig or rodent. The term does not denote a particular
   age or sex. Thus, adult and newborn subjects, as well as fetuses, whether male or female, are
   intended to be covered.
20              Disclosed herein in one aspect are methods for preparing a microparticle having a
       selected release profile for the release of a bioactive agent contained therein, the method
       comprising: a) providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive
       agent therein; b) selecting a release profile for the bioactive agent; and c) drying the
       microparticle under a set of drying parameters such that the selected release profile is
25     substantially achieved. Also disclosed herein in one aspect are methods for drying a
       microparticle, comprising: a) providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a
       releasable bioactive agent therein; and b) drying the microparticle using an agitated filter
       dryer under a set of selected drying parameters.
                Also disclosed are methods of any aspect disclosed herein, wherein the
30     microparticle is dried using an agitated filter dryer or a Nutsche filter dryer.
                Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherein the slurry comprises
       water.
                Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherein the slurry comprises
       at least one organic.

                Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherein the slurry comprises
        ethyl acetate.
                Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherin the microparticle
       comprises poly(lactide), poly(glycolide), poly(caprolactone), or a combination thereof.
 5              Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherein the microparticle
       comprises poly(lactide-co-glycolide).
                Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherein the microparticle is
        dried using a stirred cell filter dryer.
                Also disclosed are methods of any preceding apect, wherein the microparticle is
10      dried under nitrogen at a nitrogen flow rate ranging from 0.2 to 2 liters per minute.
                A microparticle made by the method of any preceding aspect.
                                                 EXAMPLES
            The following examples are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the art
15 with a complete disclosure and description of how the compounds, compositions, articles,
   devices and/or methods claimed herein are made and evaluated, and are intended to be purely
   exemplary of the invention and are not intended to limit the scope of what the inventors
   regard as their invention. Efforts have been made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers
   (e.g., amounts, temperature, etc.), but some errors and deviations should be accounted for.
20 Unless indicated otherwise, parts are parts by weight, temperature is in 'C or is at ambient
   temperature, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
            Example 1 Microsphere production/drying
            Bovine serum albumin, BSA, (Fraction V, Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO) was
   added to a 20% solution of 5050 PLG 4.5E polymer (Lakeshore Biomaterials brand polymer
25 from SurModics Pharmaceuticals, Birmingham, AL) in ethyl acetate at a level of 10% based
   on the combined weight of polymer and BSA. BSA was suspended in the polymer solution
   using an IKA Ultraturrax at 13,500 rpm for 30 seconds. The drug/polymer suspension (15 ml)
   was then emulsified at a rate of 15 mL/min into an aqueous solution containing 2 wt%
   poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) that was fed at a rate of 150 mL/min by using a Silverson L4RT-A
30 homogenizer at 860 rpm. The resulting o/w emulsion was then extracted into deionized water
   which was fed at a rate of 1450 mL/min and stirred an additional 60 minutes to extract the
   organic solvent and form polymer microparticles. The resulting microsphere suspension was
   passed through 150 and 25 micron test sieves (Retsch GmbH) in order to isolate the

   microparticle fraction between 25-250 microns in size. The product collected on the 25
   micron sieve was washed with deionized water (1 liter) and was then transferred to a drying
   apparatus.
           The drying apparatus was a modified MILLIPORE stirred cell (MILLIPORE Stirred
 5 Cell 8200, Fisher Scientific) where a 25 pm sieve mesh material (Retsch GmbH) was used as
   the bottom filter membrane. This drying apparatus was then connected to a nitrogen source.
   Nitrogen flow was initiated to remove excess water from the system to form a solid
   microsphere cake at the bottom of the cell. Nitrogen flow was then controlled through the cell
   using a regulator Drying conditions were selected that allowed for either fast or slow drying
10 conditions based on the nitrogen flow rate through the drying apparatus. Fast drying
   conditions used a nitrogen flow rate of 2 LPM while slow drying conditions used a flow rate
   of 0.2 LPM. Aliquots of microspheres were taken throughout the course of drying and the
   microsphere cake was stirred at each time point to promote even drying throughout the
   sample. Once the product was dry, it was collected and reserved for further analysis.
15         Particle Size Analysis
           Particle size analysis was performed by laser diffraction using a Beckman Coulter
   LS13,320 particle size analyzer. The fraunhoffer model was used to compute size distribution
   based on volume-averaged statistics. Particles sizes were conducted on portions of the bulk
   microparticle product taken just prior to collection on the test sieves. Reported particle size
20 results are in microns and include the mean size (mean), and the particle sizes at 10% and
   90% of the particle size distribution (D10 and D90, respectively).
           Residual moisture and residual solvent analysis
           Samples pulled throughout the course of drying were analyzed for residual moisture
   content by a Computrac Vapor Pro moisture analyzer (Arizona Instruments). Residual solvent
25 analysis for ethyl acetate was performed by gas chromotography (GC).
           BSA Content
           The final product was analyzed for BSA content by accurately weighing 10 mg of
   microspheres into a test tube and adding 3 mL of ethyl acetate. This mixture was vortexed for
   30 seconds, then centrifuged at 3500 rpm for 15 minutes. Supernatant was removed, 3 mL of
30 ethyl acetate added, mixture vortexed for 30 seconds, and centrifuged at 3500 rpm for 15
   minutes. This procedure was repeated one last time for a total of three ethyl acetate washes.
   After the last wash and removal of supernatant, the remaining BSA pellet was dried under

   nitrogen flow to remove excess ethyl acetate. Next, 3 mL of phosphate buffered saline (PBS,
    IX) (Fisher Scientific) was added to the dried BSA material and the mixture was vortexed for
   30 seconds to completely dissolve the BSA. This mixture was then centrifuged for 15
   minutes at 3500 rpm to remove any residual polymer precipitate. The supernatant containing
 5 the water-soluble BSA was then collected and analyzed by HPLC for BSA content.
           In-Vitro Release
           In vitro studies were performed by accurately weighing 30 mg of BSA loaded
   microspheres into a test tube, adding 3 mL of IX PBS, and placing samples in a 37 'C static
   incubator. At each time point a serum separator was used to filter the microspheres from the
10 release buffer, and the release buffer was collected for analysis. At each time point, the total
   volume of release buffer was removed and fully replaced with fresh IX PBS. Each lot of
   microspheres was evaluated in triplicate for the release study. Samples were analyzed by
   HPLC.
           HPLC Method
15         HPLC analysis was performed on a Perkin Elmer instrument using the following
   parameters: Shodex Protein KW-803 column, 214 nm detection wavelength, 1 mL/min
   mobile phase flow rate, 10 pL sample injection volume, and 20 minute run time per sample.
   Sample tray and column were kept at ambient temperature. Mobile phase was a pre-mixed
    1:1 100mM Sodium Phosphate: 100mM Sodium Sulfate, pH 7.
20         Results
           Properties of the following samples were evaluated:
           Table 1. Samples.
                Batch ID                  Comment                Nitrogen flow rate during
                                                                       drying (LPM)
               00387-080           Fast drying conditions                    2
               00387-075           Slow drying conditions                   0.2
25
           Particle sizes of the samples from Table 1 are listed below in Table 2. Particle size
   distributions for these samples are shown in FIGs. 1 and 2.

         Table 2. Particle Size.
                Batch ID         Drying Rate        D10,          Mean,        D90,
                                    (LPM)          microns       microns      microns
               00387-080               2            24.24         86.22        162.3
               00387-075              0.2           26.73         82.79        137.8
         Drying profiles of the two samples discussed above are shown in FIG. 3. As can be
seen from FIG. 3, faster drying (i.e., with a higher nitrogen flow-rate) reduces water content
faster than slower drying. Table 3 lists residual solvent for each of the samples. Drug loading
after drying is shown in Table 4.
         Table 3. Residual Solvent.
                      Batch ID         Drying Rate       Residual Solvent - Ethyl
                                          (LPM)                  Acetate
                     00387-080                 2                  4.8%
                     00387-075               0.2                  0.9%
         Table 4. BSA Content after drying.
                     Batch ID         Drying Rate        Total Core Loading (%)
                                  S       ~~~(LPM)    __________
                    00387-080                2                     8.69
                    00387-075               0.2                    8.39
         With reference to FIG. 4, which shows the cumulative release profile for the two
samples, demonstrates that by tuning the drying profile, a different release profile can be
achieved. Specifically, in this case, slower drying led to a slower rate of release relative to the
microspheres dried under fast conditions.
         Various modifications and variations can be made to the compounds, composites, kits,
articles, devices, compositions, and methods described herein. Other aspects of the the
compounds, composites, kits, articles, devices, compositions, and methods described herein
will be apparent from consideration of the specification and practice of the the compounds,
composites, kits, articles, devices, compositions, and methods disclosed herein. It is intended
that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary.
         FORMS OF THE INVENTION
Forms of the present invention includes:

1.  A method for preparing a microparticle having a selected release profile for the
    release of a bioactive agent contained therein, the method comprising:
        a) providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive
            agent therein;
        b) selecting a release profile for the bioactive agent; and
        c) drying the microparticle under a set of drying parameters such that the selected
            release profile is substantially achieved.
2.  The method of form 1, wherein the microparticle is dried using an agitated filter
    dryer.
3.  The method of form 1, wherein the microparticle is dried using a Nutsche filter dryer.
4.  The method of form 1, wherein the slurry comprises water.
5.  The method of form 1, wherein the slurry comprises at least one organic.
6.  The method of form 1, wherein the slurry comprises ethyl acetate.
7.  The method of form 1, wherin the microparticle comprises poly(lactide),
    poly(glycolide), poly(caprolactone), poly(lactide-co-glycolide), or a combination
    thereof.
8.  The method of form 1, wherein the microparticle is dried using a stirred cell filter
    dryer.
9.  The method of form 8, wherein the microparticle is dried under gas at a gas flow rate
    ranging from 0.2 to 2 liters per minute.
10. A microparticle made by the method of form 1.
11. A method for drying a microparticle, comprising:
        a) providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive
            agent therein; and
        b) drying the microparticle using an agitated filter dryer or a stirred cell filter
            dryer under a set of selected drying parameters.

12. The method of form 11, wherein the microparticle is dried using a Nutsche filter
    dryer.
13. The method of form 11, wherein the slurry comprises water.
14. The method of form 11, wherein the slurry comprises at least one organic.
15. The method of form 11, wherein the slurry comprises ethyl acetate.
16. The method of form 11, wherin the microparticle comprises poly(lactide),
    poly(glycolide), poly(caprolactone), poly(lactide-co-glycolide), or a combination
    thereof.
17. The method of form 11, wherein the microparticle is dried under gas at a gas flow rate
    ranging from 0.2 to 2 liters per minute.
18. A microparticle made by the method of form 11.

CLAIMS
1.        A method for preparing a microparticle having a selected release profile for the release of
a bioactive agent contained therein, the method comprising:
        a)       providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive agent
                 therein;
        b)        selecting a release profile for the bioactive agent;
        c)        selecting a set of drying parameters to achieve a drying rate such that the selected
                 release profile is substantially achieved; and
        d)       drying the microparticle under the set of drying parameters wherein the drying
                 rate is directly proportional with the release rate of the bioactive agent from the
                 microparticle.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the microparticle is dried using an agitated filter dryer, a
Nutsche filter dryer or a stirred cell filter dryer.
3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the slurry comprises water.
4.      The method of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the slurry comprises at least one organic.
5.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the slurry comprises ethyl acetate.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the microparticle comprises poly(lactide),
poly(glycolide), poly(caprolactone), or a combination thereof.
7.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the microparticle comprises poly(lactide
co-glycolide).
8.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the microparticle is dried using a stirred
cell filter dyer and the microparticle is dried under nitrogen at a nitrogen flow rate ranging from
0.2 to 2 liters per minute.
9.      A method for drying a microparticle, comprising:
             a. providing a slurry comprising a microparticle having a releasable bioactive agent
                 therein; and

             b. drying the microparticle using an agitated filter dryer under a set of drying
                  parameters selected to achieve a drying rate;
                  wherein the drying rate is directly proportional with the release rate of the
                  bioactive agent from the microparticle.
10.     The method of claim 9. wherein the microparticle is dried using a Nutsche filter dryer or a
stirred cell filter dryer.
11.     The method of claim 9 or 10, wherein the slurry comprises water.
12.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the slurry comprises at least one organic.
13.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the slurry comprises ethyl acetate.
14.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the microparticle comprises
poly(lactide), poly(glycolide), poly(caprolactone), or a combination thereof.
15.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 14, wherein the microparticle comprises
poly(lactide-co-glycolide).
16.     The method of any one of claims 9 to 15, wherein the microparticle is dried using a stirred
cell filter dryer and the microparticle is dried under gas at a gas flow rate ranging from 0.2 to 2
liters per minute.
                                         Evonik Corporation
                       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
