ABSTRACT
A coating composition comprising:
        (a) from 10 to 90 percent by weight based on the total weight of the coating
        composition of an aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion comprising:
                from 40 to 70 percent by weight of one or more alkyds based on the total
weight of the aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion, wherein each said one or
more alkyds has an acid value of less than 10 and a molecular weight (M,) in the range of
greater than 1000 Dalton;
                from more than 0 to less than 10 percent by weight of one or more
                surfactants, based on the total weight of the aqueous, high-solid, solvent
                free alkyd dispersion; and
                from 30 to 55 percent by weight of water, based on the total weight of the
                aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion;
                wherein said aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion has an
average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 Pm; and
        (b) from 10 to 90 percent by weight based on the total weight of the coating
composition of one or more second components selected from the group consisting of
epoxy resins;
wherein said coating composition has a solid content of in the range of from 25 to 65
percent by weight of solid content, based on the total weight of the coating composition,
and the coating composition has a pH in the range of from 7 to 11, wherein the coating
composition has a volume average particle size in the range of from 0.03 to 5 Pm, and
wherein the coating composition has a viscosity in the range of from 100 to 10,000 cP.

       A COATING COMPOSITION, AND A PROCESS FOR PRODUCING
                                        THE SAME
        The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
application number <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of Australian patent application
number 2011364953, which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                     Field of Invention
        The present invention relates to a coating composition, a process for producing
the same, coating layers derived therefrom, and article comprising such coating layers.
                               Background of the Invention
        Alkyds are a major part of the coatings market. A significant portion of the
market is still based on solvent-borne coatings. Waterborne coatings are becoming more
important as a solution to the more stringent volatile organic compounds ("VOC")
regulations. Currently, water-based alkyds are in the form of either emulsions or water
reducibles (in water miscible solvent). The current water-based alkyds are prepared
using low molecular weight resins with either high acid values, for example greater than
50 for neutralization with amines to improve water dispersibility by salt formation, or
high levels of emulsifying agents or stabilizers or special functionalization, for example,
chemical modification with monomers such as polyglycols or sulfonate-containing
compounds.
        However, there is still a need for an alkyd dispersion based coating composition,
wherein the alkyd dispersion has high solid content, and ultra-low volatile organic
compounds, and wherein one or more coating layers derived from such alkyd dispersion
based coating compositions possess improved coating properties and performances
comparable to those of solvent grade alkyds without the need for the functionalization of
the resin and/or non-blended versions. Accordingly, the present invention provides an
alkyd dispersion based coating composition, wherein said alkyd dispersion has a high
solid content, and ultra-low volatile organic compounds, and wherein the coating
composition has improved coating properties and performances comparable to those of
solvent grade alkyds without the need for a functionalization of the resin and/or non
blended version.
                                             - 1-

         The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part
of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
        Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the
presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the
presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
                                   Summary of the Invention
         The present invention provides a coating composition, a process for producing the
same, one or more coating layers derived therefrom, and articles comprising one or more
such coating layers.
                                             - la -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
             In one embodiment, the present invention provides a coating composition
     comprising:
     (a) from 10 to 90 percent by weight of an aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd
     dispersion comprising: (i) from 40 to 70 percent by weight of one or more alkyds based
 5   on the total weight of the dispersion, wherein each said one or more alkyds has an acid
     value of less than 20 and a molecular weight (Me) in the range of greater than 1000
     Dalton; (ii) from less than 10 percent by weight of one or more surfactants, based on
     the total weight of the dispersion; and (iii) from 30 to 55 percent by weight of water,
     based on the total weight of the dispersion; wherein said aqueous, high-solid, solvent
10   free alkyd dispersion has an average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to
     5 pm; (b) from 10 to 90 one or more second dispersions, one or more second
     emulsions, or combinations thereof; wherein said coating composition has a solid
     content of in the range of from 25 to 65 percent by weight of solid content, based on the
     total weight of the coating composition, and the coating composition has a pH in the
15   range of from 7 to 11, and wherein the coating composition has a volume average
     particle size in the range of from 0.03 to 5 pm, and wherein the coating composition
     has a viscosity in the range of from 100 to 10,000 cP.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention further provides a method
     for producing a coating composition comprising the steps of: (1) providing one or more
20   molten or liquid alkyds, wherein each said one or more molten or liquid alkyds has an
     acid number of less than 20 and a molecular weight (Me) in the range of greater than
      1000 Dalton; (2) providing one or more surfactants; (3) providing water; (4) optionally
     providing one or more neutralizing agents; (5) continuously emulsifying said one or
     more molten or liquid alkyds in the water in the presence of said one or more
25   surfactants and optionally said one or more neutralizing agents; (6) thereby producing a
     high internal phase emulsion; (7) providing additional water; (8) contacting said high
     internal phase emulsion with said additional water; (9) thereby producing said aqueous
     alkyd dispersion, wherein said alkyd dispersion comprises from 40 to 70 percent by
     weight of said one or more alkyds, from less than 10 percent by weight of said one or
30   more surfactants, and wherein said dispersion has an average particle size diameter in
     the range of from 0.05 to 5 pm; (10) providing one or more second dispersions and/or
                                                - 2 -

second emulsions; (11) contacting said alkyd dispersion and one or more second
dispersion and/or second emulsions; and (12) thereby forming the coating composition.
        In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides one or more coating
layers derived from the inventive coating composition, as described herein.
        In the alternative embodiment, the present invention provides an article
comprising one or more coating layers derived from the inventive coating composition,
as described herein.
        In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
composition comprising:
        (a) from 10 to 90 percent by weight based on the total weight of the coating
        composition of an aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion comprising:
                from 40 to 70 percent by weight of one or more alkyds based on the total
weight of the aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion, wherein each said one or
more alkyds has an acid value of less than 10 and a molecular weight (M,) in the range of
greater than 1000 Dalton;
                from more than 0 to less than 10 percent by weight of one or more
                surfactants, based on the total weight of the aqueous, high-solid, solvent
                free alkyd dispersion; and
                from 30 to 55 percent by weight of water, based on the total weight of the
                aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion;
                wherein said aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion has an
average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 Pm; and
        (b) from 10 to 90 percent by weight based on the total weight of the coating
composition of one or more second components selected from the group consisting of
epoxy resins;
        wherein said coating composition has a solid content of in the range of from 25 to
65 percent by weight of solid content, based on the total weight of the coating
composition, and the coating composition has a pH in the range of from 7 to 11, wherein
the coating composition has a volume average particle size in the range of from 0.03 to 5
pm, and wherein the coating composition has a viscosity in the range of from 100 to
10,000 cP.
                                             -3-

         In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a method for
producing a coating composition comprising the steps of:
         providing one or more molten or liquid alkyds, wherein each said one or more
molten or liquid alkyds has an acid number of less than 10 and a molecular weight (M,)
in the range of greater than 1000 Dalton;
         providing one or more surfactants;
         providing water;
         optionally providing one or more neutralizing agents;
         continuously emulsifying said one or more molten or liquid alkyds in the water in
the presence of said one or more surfactants and optionally said one or more neutralizing
agents;
         thereby producing a high internal phase emulsion;
         providing additional water;
         contacting said high internal phase emulsion with said additional water;
         thereby producing said aqueous alkyd dispersion, wherein said alkyd dispersion
comprises from 40 to 70 percent by weight of said one or more alkyds, from more than 0
to less than 10 percent by weight of said one or more surfactants, and wherein said
dispersion has an average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 Pm;
         providing one or more second components selected from the group consisting of
epoxy resins;
         contacting said alkyd dispersion and said one or more second components; and
thereby forming the coating composition, wherein said coating composition has a solid
content of in the range of from 25 to 65 percent by weight of solid content, based on the
total weight of the coating composition, and the coating composition has a pH in the
range of from 7 to 11, and wherein the coating composition has a volume average particle
size in the range of from 0.03 to 5 p m.
         In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the preceding
embodiments, except that the second dispersion is selected from the group consisting of a
                                             - 3a -

polyolefin dispersion, a polyurethane dispersion, an epoxy resin dispersion, a polyester
dispersion, and combinations thereof.
        In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the preceding
embodiments, except that the second emulsion is a latex selected from the group
consisting of acrylic latex, vinyl acetate acrylic latex, styrene acrylic latex, vinyl acetate
ethylene latex, and combinations thereof.
        In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the preceding
embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a pendulum hardness
in the range of from 50 to 150 seconds, wherein the film has a thickness of at least 40
pm.
        In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
                                             - 3b -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     preceding embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a
     modulus hardness in the range of from (2 * 107) to (1      * 10") dyn/cm2 .
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
 5   the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a direct
     impact resistance in the range of from 65 to 160 inch pounds.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
10   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a reverse
     impact resistance in the range of from 20 to 160 inch pounds.
15           In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a gloss
20   loss after QUV at 60' in the range of from less than 30; for example, less than 20, less
     than 15, less than 10, less than 5, less than 2, or less than 1.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
25   derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a gloss
     loss after QUV at 20* in the range of from less than 50; for example, less than 40, less
     than 30, less than 20, or less than 10.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
30   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
                                                 -4   -

   WO 2012/138348                                                       PCT/US2011/031765
     preceding embodiments, except that the coating layer comprises a film having a AE
     color change after QUV in the range of from less than 8; for example, less than 5, less
     than 4, or less than 3.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
 5   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the one or more alkyds are neutralized up to 100
     percent by a neutralizing agent.
10           In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd dispersion has a viscosity in the range of
15   from 100 to 10,000 cP.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
20   preceding embodiments, except that the one or more alkyds are neutralized up to 200
     percent by a neutralizing agent.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
25   derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd dispersion has a solid content of greater
     than 60 weight percent, based on the weight of the alkyd dispersion.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
30   the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
                                             - 5 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd dispersion has a solid content of greater
     than 65 weight percent, based on the weight of the alkyd dispersion.
              In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
     composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
 5   the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd dispersion has a solid content of greater
     than 70 weight percent, based on the weight of the alkyd dispersion.
              In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
10   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd resin has an acid number of less than 20.
              In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
15   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd resin has an acid number of less than 15.
              In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
20   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd resin has an acid number of less than 10.
              In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a coating
25   composition, process for producing the same, one or more coating layers derived from
     the inventive coating composition, and an article comprising one or more coating layers
     derived from the inventive coating composition, in accordance with any of the
     preceding embodiments, except that the alkyd dispersion has improved heat age
     stability, i.e. the difference between the initial average volume particle size diameter
30   and the final average volume particle size diameter (i.e. after accelerated aging
     according to the Heat Age Stability test method) is less than 20 percent.
                                                 -6-

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
                                 Brief Description of the Drawin2s
              For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there is shown in the drawings a
     form that is exemplary; it being understood, however, that this invention is not limited
 5   to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities shown.
              Fig. 1 is a photograph illustrating the color change after QUV of Inventive
     Example 9, designated as 3, Inventive Example 10 designated as 4, and Comparative
     Example designated as 73; and
              Fig. 2 is a photograph illustrating corrosion resistance after salt fog testing of
10   Inventive Example 13 designated as 9D, and Inventive Example 14 designated as 1OD.
                               Detailed Description of the Invention
              The present invention provides a coating composition, a process for producing
     the same, one or more coating layers derived therefrom, and articles comprising one or
15   more such coating layers.
              The coating composition according to the present invention comprises (a) from
      10 to 90 percent by weight of an aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion
     comprising: (i) from 40 to 70 percent by weight of one or more alkyds based on the
     total weight of the dispersion, wherein each said one or more alkyds has an acid value
20   of less than 20 and a molecular weight (Me) in the range of greater than 1000 Dalton;
     (ii) from less than 10 percent by weight of one or more surfactants, based on the total
     weight of the dispersion; and (iii) from 30 to 55 percent by weight of water, based on
     the total weight of the dispersion; wherein said aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd
     dispersion has an average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 Pm; (b)
25   from 10 to 90 one or more second dispersions, one or more second emulsions, or
     combinations thereof; wherein said coating composition has a solid content of in the
     range of from 25 to 65 percent by weight of solid content, based on the total weight of
     the coating composition, and the coating composition has a pH in the range of from 7 to
      11, and wherein the coating composition has a volume average particle size in the range
30   of from 0.03 to 5 pm, and wherein the coating composition has a viscosity in the range
     of from 100 to 10,000 cP.
                                                   -7-

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
              The method for producing the inventive coating composition comprises the
     steps of: (1) providing one or more molten or liquid alkyds, wherein each said one or
     more molten or liquid alkyds has an acid number of less than 20 and a molecular
     weight (Me) in the range of greater than 1000 Dalton; (2) providing one or more
 5   surfactants; (3) providing water; (4) optionally providing one or more neutralizing
     agents; (5) continuously emulsifying said one or more molten or liquid alkyds in the
     water in the presence of said one or more surfactants and optionally said one or more
     neutralizing agents; (6) thereby producing a high internal phase emulsion; (7) providing
     additional water; (8) contacting said high internal phase emulsion with said additional
10   water; (9) thereby producing said aqueous alkyd dispersion, wherein said alkyd
     dispersion comprises from 40 to 70 percent by weight of said one or more alkyds, from
     less than 10 percent by weight of said one or more surfactants, and wherein said
     dispersion has an average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 Pm; (10)
     providing one or more second dispersions and/or second emulsions; (11) contacting
15   said alkyd dispersion and one or more second dispersion and/or second emulsions; and
     (12) thereby forming the coating composition.
             In an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides one or more
     coating layers derived from the inventive coating composition, as described herein, and
     an article comprising one or more such coating layers.
20           The coating composition according to the present invention may further
     comprise optionally one or more solvents; optionally one or more co-solvents;
     optionally one or more fillers; optionally one or more additives; optionally one or more
     pigments, e.g. titanium dioxide, mica, calcium carbonate, silica, zinc oxide, milled
     glass, aluminum trihydrate, talc, antimony trioxide, fly ash, and clay; optionally one or
25   more modified pigments such as polymer encapsulated pigments, e.g. polymer
     encapsulated titanium dioxide, polymer encapsulated zinc oxide, and polymer
     encapsulated lithopone, optionally a pigment comprising titanium dioxide and one or
     more polymers or emulsions associated with surface thereof, optionally one or more
     hollow pigments, including such hollow pigments comprising one or more voids,
30   optionally one or more dispersants, e.g. aminoalcohols, and polycarboxylates;
     optionally one or more surfactants; optionally one or more defoamers; optionally one or
     more preservatives, e.g. biocides, mildewcides, fungicides, algaecides, and
                                               - 8 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     combinations thereof; optionally one or more thickeners, e.g. cellulosic based
     thickeners such as hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydrophobically modified alkali soluble
     emulsions and hydrophobically modified ethoxylated urethane thickeners (HEUR);
     optionally one or more biocides; optionally more defoamers; optionally one or more
 5   flow agents; optionally one or more leveling agents; or optionally one or more
     additional neutralizing agents, e.g. hydroxides, amines, ammonia, and carbonates.
             The coating composition may further comprise a colorant. A variety of colors
     may be used. Examples include colors such as yellow, magenta, and cyan. As a black
     coloring agent, carbon black, and a coloring agent toned to black using the
10   yellow/magenta/cyan coloring agents shown below may be used. Colorants, as used
     herein, include dyes, pigments, and pre-dispersions, among others. These colorants
     may be used singly, in a mixture, or as a solid solution. In various embodiments,
     pigments may be provided in the form of raw pigments, treated pigments, pre-milled
     pigments, pigment powders, pigment presscakes, pigment masterbatches, recycled
15   pigment, and solid or liquid pigment pre-dispersions. As used herein, a raw pigment is
     a pigment particle that has had no wet treatments applied to its surface, such as to
     deposit various coatings on the surface. Raw pigment and treated pigment are further
     discussed in PCT Publication No. WO 2005/095277 and U.S. Patent Application
     Publication No. 20060078485, the relevant portions of which are incorporated herein
20   by reference. In contrast, a treated pigment may have undergone wet treatment, such as
     to provide metal oxide coatings on the particle surfaces. Examples of metal oxide
     coatings include alumina, silica, and zirconia. Recycled pigment may also be used as
     the starting pigment particles, where recycled pigment is pigment after wet treatment of
     insufficient quality to be sold as coated pigment.
25              Exemplary colorant particles include, but are not limited to, pigments such as
     yellow coloring agent, compounds typified by a condensed azo compound, an
     isoindolynone compound, an anthraquinone compound, an azometal complex methine
     compound, and an allylamide compound as pigments may be used. As a magenta
     coloring agent, a condensed azo compound, a diketopyrrolopyrrole compound,
30   anthraquinone, a quinacridone compound, a base dye lake compound, a naphthol
     compound, a benzimidazolone compound, a thioindigo compound, and a perylene
     compound may be used. As a cyan coloring agent, a copper phthalocyanine compound
                                                - 9 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     and its derivative, an anthraquinone compound, a base dye lake compound, and the like
     may be used.
     Alkyd Dispersion Component
             The coating composition comprises from 10 to 90 percent by weight of an
 5   aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion; for example, from 20 to 90 percent
     by weight; or in the alternative, from 30 to 90 weight percent; or in the alternative, from
     40 to 85weight percent; or in the alternative, from 30 to 80 weight percent. All
     individual values and subranges from 10 to 90 weight percent are included herein and
     disclosed herein; for example, the weight percent can be from a lower limit of 10, 20,
10   30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 85 to an upper limit 20, 30, 40, 50 , 60, 70, 80, or 90. The
     alkyds dispersion comprises from 40 to 70 percent by weight of one or more alkyds. All
     individual values and subranges from 40 to 70 weight percent are included herein and
     disclosed herein; for example, the weight percent can be from a lower limit of 40, 45,
     50, 55, or 60 to an upper limit of 60, 65, or 70. Each one or more alkyds has an acid
15   value in the range of 20 or less. All individual values and subranges from 20 or less
     acid value are included herein and disclosed herein; for example, the acid value can be
     from a lower limit of one, 0.1, 0.5, 1, 2, 5, 70 or 10 to an upper limit of 5, 7, 10, 15, or
     20. Each one or more alkyds has a molecular weight (Me) in the range of equal to or
     greater than 1000 Dalton; for example, equal to or greater than 2000 Dalton, or in the
20   alternative, equal to or greater than 4000 Dalton.
             The alkyd resins suitable for the present invention have a viscosity in the range
     of from 100 to 1,500,000 Centipoise (mPa-s) at 80 'C and shear rate of 0.10 /sec. All
     individual values and subranges from 100 to 1,500,000 Centipoise (mPa-s) at 80 'C and
     shear rate of 0.10 /sec are included herein and disclosed herein; for example, the
25   viscosity may be from a lower limit of 100, 1000, 5000, 15000, or 25000 Centipoise
     (mPa-s) at 80 'C and shear rate of 0.10 /sec to an upper limit of 100,000, 250,000,
     500,00, 750,000 , 1,000,000, or 1,500,000 Centipoise (mPa-s) at 80 *C and shear rate of
     0.10 /sec.
             Alkyd resins are polyesters of polyhydroxyl alcohols and polycarboxylic acids
30   chemically combined with various drying and semi-drying oils in different proportions.
     Polyhydroxyl alcohols may include, but are not limited to, such components as ethylene
                                               - 10 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                             PCT/US2011/031765
     glycol, diethylene glycol, neopentyl glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, glycerol,
     pentaerythritol, sorbitol and mannitol.
              Suitable glycols thus include ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene
     glycol, triethylene glycol, tetraethylene glycol, pentaethylene glycol, hexaethylene
 5   glycol, heptaethylene glycol, octaethylene glycol, nonaethylene glycol, decaethylene
     glycol, neopentyl glycol, glycerol, 1,3-propanediol, 2,4-dimethyl-2-ethyl-hexane-1,3
     diol, 2,2-dimethyl-1,2-propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-butyl-1,3-propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-isobutyl
      1,3-propanediol, 1,3-butanediol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,5-pentanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, 2,2,4
     tetramethyl-1,6-hexanediol, thiodiethanol, 1,2-cyclohexanedimethanol, 1,3
10   cyclohexanedimethanol, 1,4-cyclohexanedimethanol, 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,3-pentanediol,
     2,2,4-tetramethyl-1,3-cyclobutanediol, p-xylenediol, hydroxypivalyl hydroxypivalate,
      1,10-decanediol, hydrogenated bisphenol A, trimethylolpropane, trimethylolethane,
     pentaerythritol, erythritol, threitol, dipentaerythritol, sorbitol, mannitol, glycerine,
     trimellitic anhydride, pyromellitic dianhydride, dimethylolpropionic acid, and the like.
15            Polycarboxylic acids may include, but are not limited to, phthalic acid, maleic
     acid, fumaric acid, isophthalic acid, succinic acid, adipic acid, azeleic acid, and sebacic
     acid, terephthalic acid, tetrachlorophthalic anhydride, tetrahydrophthalic anhydride,
     dodecanedioic acid, sebacic acid, azelaic acid, 1,4-cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 1,3
     cyclohexanedicarboxylic acid, 2,6-naphthalenedicarboxylic acid, glutaric acid,
20   trimellitic anhydride acid, citric acid, pyromellitic dianhydride acid, trimesic acid,
     sodium sulfoisophthalic acid, as well as from anhydrides of such acids, and esters
     thereof, where they exist. Optionally moncarboxylic acids may be employed including ,
     but not limited to, benzoic acid.
              Drying oils may include, but are not limited to, coconut oil, fish oil, linseed oil,
25   tung oil, castor oil, cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil, soybean oil, and tall oil.
              In addition to an amount of polyol reacted with a fatty acid, fatty ester, or
     naturally occurring-partially saponified oil, an additional amount of a polyol or other
     branching agent such as a polycarboxylic acid may be used to increase the molecular
     weight and branching of the alkyd resin, and may be selected from trimethylolethane,
30   pentaerythritol, erythritol, threitol, dipentaerythritol, sorbitol, glycerine, trimellitic
     anhydride, pyromellitic dianhydride, dimethylolpropionic acid, and trimethylolpropane.
                                                 - 11 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
             Alkyds may be produced, for example, by direct fusion of glycerol, phthalic
     anhydride and drying oil. Solvents may be added to reduce the viscosity. Various
     proportions of the polycarboxylic acid, polyhydric alcohol, and oil are used to obtain
     alkyd resins of various properties, as is well known in the art.
 5           Alkyds may further include any one or more modifications, for example, alkyd
     may be urethane modified, acrylic modified, styrene modified, vinyl ester modified,
     vinyl ether modified, silicone modified, epoxy modified, combinations thereof, and the
     like.
             One or more alkyds may, for example, be one or more uralkyds, i.e. urethane
10   modified alkyd. Uralkyds may be prepared by reacting alkyds having isocyanate
     reactive groups with polyisocyanates and optionally other components having
     isocyanate-reactive groups. Isocyanate-reactive groups are defined as groups which will
     react with an isocyanate group (-NCO) and examples include-OH,-NH 2,-NH-, and-SH.
     Preferred isocyanate-reactive groups are-OH. Other components include but are not
15   limited to polyamines and polyols, for example polyols having water-dispersing groups,
     as described below.
             Examples of suitable polyisocyanate(s), (normally diisocyanate(s)) include
     aliphatic and cycloaliphatic polyisocyanates such as ethylene diisocyanate, 1,6
     hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI, isophorone diisocyanate (IPDI), cyclohexane-1,4
20   diisocyanate, 4,4'-dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate, cyclopentylene diisocyanate, p
     tetra-methylxylene diisocyanate (p-TMXDI) and its meta isomer (m-TMXDI),
     hydrogenated 2,4-toluene diisocyanate and hydrogenated 2,6-toluene diisocyanate.
     Also araliphatic and aromatic polyisocyanates may be used, such as p-xylene
     diisocyanate, 1,4-phenylene diisocyanate, 2,4-toluene diisocyanate, 2,6-toluene
25   diisocyanate, 4,4'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate, 2,4'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate
     and 1,5-naphthylene diisocyanate. Particularly preferred is 2,4-toluene diisocyanate
     (TDI), optionally in admixture with its 2,6-isomer.
             Examples of suitable polyols for use in preparation of uralkyds include
     difunctional alcohols, trifunctional alcohols (e.g., glycerine, trimethylol propane,
30   trimethylol ethane, trimethylol butane, tris hydroxyethyl isocyanurate, etc.), tetrahydric
     or higher alcohols (e.g., pentaerythritol, diglycerol, etc.), and combinations thereof.
                                                - 12 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     Trifunctional alcohols are preferred due to the degree of branching they allow.
     Difunctional alcohols (or diols), if used, are preferably used in combination with
     trifunctional or higher alcohols. Examples of suitable diols include neopentyl glycol
     (NPG), ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol,
 5   tetraethylene glycol, pentaethylene glycol, hexaethylene glycol, heptaethylene glycol,
     octaethylene glycol, nonaethylene glycol, decaethylene glycol, 1,3-propanediol, 2,4
     dimethyl-2-ethyl-hexane-1,3-diol, 2,2-dimethyl-1,2-propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-butyl-1,3
     propanediol, 2-ethyl-2-isobutyl-1,3-propanediol, 1,3-butanediol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,5
     pentanediol, 1,6-hexanediol, 2,2,4-tetramethyl-1,6-hexanediol, thiodiethanol, 1,2
10   cyclohexanedimethanol, 1,3-cyclohexane-dimethanol, 1,4-cyclohexanedimethanol,
     2,2,4-trimethyl-1,3-pentanediol, 2,2,4-tetramethyl-1,3-cyclobutanediol, p-xylenediol,
     hydroxypivalylhydroxypivalate, 1,10-decanediol, and hydrogenated bisphenol A.
              The reaction mixture for producing alkyds includes one or more aliphatic or
     aromatic polycarboxylic acids, esterified polymerization products thereof, and
15   combinations thereof. As used herein, the term "polycarboxylic acid" includes both
     polycarboxylic acids and anhydrides thereof. Examples of suitable polycarboxylic acids
     for use in the present invention include phthalic acid, isophthalic acid, terephthalic acid,
     tetrahydrophthalic acid, naphthalene dicarboxylic acid, and anhydrides and
     combinations thereof.
20            Mixtures of polyisocyanates can be used and also polyisocyanates which have
     been modified by the introduction of urethane, allophanate, urea, biuret, carbodiimide,
     uretonimine or isocyanurate residues.
              Alkyds may include water-dispersing groups, for example, ionic groups such as
     anionic carboxylic acid groups, and/or non-ionic water-dispersing groups such as
25   polyethylene oxide (PEO) chain groups.
              A suitable polyol(s) having carboxylic acid groups is, for example, a low
     molecular weight (< 500 Daltons) polyol, in particular a diol, whereby carboxylate
     anionic groups is provided by the carboxylic acid groups after neutralization with a
     suitable base. Exemplary diol includes, but are not limited to, dihydroxyalkanoic acids,
30   and 2,2-dimethylol propionic acid (DMPA).
              The one or more alkyds may be partially or fully neutralized with a neutralizing
     agent. In certain embodiments, neutralization of the one or more alkyds may be from 5
                                               - 13 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                             PCT/US2011/031765
     to 200 percent on a molar basis; or in the alternative, it may be from 25 to 100 percent
     on a molar basis. The neutralizing agent may be a base, such as ammonium hydroxide
     or potassium hydroxide, for example. Other neutralizing agents can include lithium
     hydroxide or sodium hydroxide, for example. In another alternative, the neutralizing
 5   agent may, for example, be a carbonate. In another alternative, the neutralizing agent
     may, for example, be any amine such as monoethanolamine, or 2-amino-2-methyl-1
     propanol (AMP). Amines useful in embodiments disclosed herein may include
     monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and TRIS AMINO (each
     available from Angus), NEUTROL TE (available from BASF), as well as
10   triisopropanolamine, diisopropanolamine, and N,N-dimethylethanolamine (each
     available from The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, MI). Other useful amines may
     include ammonia, monomethylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine,
     monoethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, mono-n-propylamine, dimethyl-n
     propylamine, N-methanol amine, N-aminoethylethanolamine, N-methyldiethanolamine,
15   monoisopropanolamine, N,N-dimethyl propanolamine, 2-amino-2-methyl- 1-propanol,
     tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane, N,N,N'N'-tetrakis(2-hydroxylpropyl)
     ethylenediamine, 1.2-diaminopropane. In some embodiments, mixtures of amines or
     mixtures of amines with bases may be used. Those having ordinary skill in the art will
     appreciate that the selection of an appropriate neutralizing agent depends on the
20   specific composition formulated, and that such a choice is within the knowledge of
     those of ordinary skill in the art.
              The aqueous alkyd dispersion further comprises from less than 10 percent by
     weight of one or more stabilizing agents, based on the total weight of the dispersion.
     All individual values and subranges from less than 10 weight percent are included
25   herein and disclosed herein; for example, the weight percent can be from a lower limit
     of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 weight percent to an upper limit of 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, or 10. The
     stabilizing agent may, for example, be an external stabilizing agent or an internal
     stabilizing agent. In selected embodiments, the stabilizing agent may be a surfactant, a
     polymer, or mixtures thereof. In certain embodiments, the stabilizing agent can be a
30   polar polymer, having a polar group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer. In
     exemplary embodiments, the stabilizing agent comprises one or more polar polyolefins,
     having a polar group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer. Exemplary
                                                - 14 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                             PCT/US2011/031765
     polymeric stabilizing agents include, but are not limited to, ethylene-acrylic acid (EAA)
     and ethylene-methacrylic acid copolymers, such as those available under the
     trademarks PRIMACORT M , commercially available from The Dow Chemical Company,
     NUCRELTM , commercially available from E.I. DuPont de Nemours, and ESCORTM
 5   commercially available from ExxonMobil Chemical Company and described in U.S.
     Patent Nos. 4,599,392, 4,988,781, and 5,938,437, each of which is incorporated herein
     by reference in its entirety. Other exemplary polymeric stabilizing agents include, but
     are not limited to, ethylene ethyl acrylate (EEA) copolymer, ethylene methyl
     methacrylate (EMMA), and ethylene butyl acrylate (EBA). Other ethylene-carboxylic
10   acid copolymer may also be used. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize
     that a number of other useful polymers may also be used.
              Other stabilizing agents that may be used include, but are not limited to, long
     chain fatty acids, fatty acid salts, or fatty acid alkyl esters having from 12 to 60 carbon
     atoms. In other embodiments, the long chain fatty acid or fatty acid salt may have from
15    12 to 40 carbon atoms.
              The stabilizing agent may be partially or fully neutralized with a neutralizing
     agent. In certain embodiments, neutralization of the stabilizing agent, such as a long
     chain fatty acid or EAA, may be from 25 to 200 percent on a molar basis; or in the
     alternative, it may be from 50 to 110 percent on a molar basis. For example, for EAA,
20   the neutralizing agent may be a base, such as ammonium hydroxide or potassium
     hydroxide, for example. Other neutralizing agents can include lithium hydroxide or
     sodium hydroxide, for example. In another alternative, the neutralizing agent may, for
     example, be a carbonate. In another alternative, the neutralizing agent may, for
     example, be any amine such as monoethanolamine, or 2-amino-2-methyl- 1-propanol
25   (AMP). Amines useful in embodiments disclosed herein may include
     monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and TRIS AMINO (each
     available from Angus), NEUTROL TE (available from BASF), as well as
     triisopropanolamine, diisopropanolamine, and N,N-dimethylethanolamine (each
     available from The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, MI). Other useful amines may
30   include ammonia, monomethylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine,
     monoethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, mono-n-propylamine, dimethyl-n
     propylamine, N-methanol amine, N-aminoethylethanolamine, N-methyldiethanolamine,
                                                  - 15 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     monoisopropanolamine, N,N-dimethyl propanolamine, 2-amino-2-methyl- 1-propanol,
     tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane, N,N,N'N'-tetrakis(2-hydroxylpropyl)
     ethylenediamine, 1.2-diaminopropane. In some embodiments, mixtures of amines or
     mixtures of amines and surfactants may be used. Those having ordinary skill in the art
 5   will appreciate that the selection of an appropriate neutralizing agent depends on the
     specific composition formulated, and that such a choice is within the knowledge of
     those of ordinary skill in the art.
             Additional stabilizing agents that may be useful in the practice of the present
     invention include, but are not limited to, cationic surfactants, anionic surfactants, or
10   non-ionic surfactants. Examples of anionic surfactants include, but are not limited to,
     sulfonates, carboxylates, and phosphates. Examples of cationic surfactants include, but
     are not limited to, quaternary amines. Examples of non-ionic surfactants include, but
     are not limited to, block copolymers containing ethylene oxide and silicone surfactants.
     Stabilizing agents useful in the practice of the present invention can be either external
15   surfactants or internal surfactants. External surfactants are surfactants that do not
     become chemically reacted into the alkyd resin during dispersion preparation.
     Examples of external surfactants useful herein include, but are not limited to, salts of
     dodecyl benzene sulfonic acid and lauryl sulfonic acid salt. Internal surfactants are
     surfactants that do become chemically reacted into the alkyd resin during dispersion
20   preparation. An example of an internal surfactant useful herein includes 2,2-dimethylol
     propionic acid and its salts. Additional surfactants that may be useful in the practice of
     the present invention include cationic surfactants, anionic surfactants, non-ionic
     surfactants, or combinations thereof. Various commercially available surfactants may
     be used in embodiments disclosed herein, including: OP-100 (a sodium stearate), OPK
25    1000 (a potassium stearate), and OPK-181 (a potassium oleate), each available from
     RTD Hallstar; UNICID 350, available from Baker Petrolite; DISPONIL FES 77-IS,
     DISPONIL FES-32-IS, DISPONIL FES-993, and DISPONIL TA-430, each available
     from Cognis; RHODAPEX CO-436, SOPROPHOR 4D384, 3D-33, and 796/P,
     RHODACAL BX-78 and LDS-22, RHODAFAC RE-610, and RM-710, and
30   SUPRAGIL MNS/90, each available from Rhodia; E-sperse 100, E-sperse 700, and E
     sperse 701 from Ethox Chemical; and TRITON QS-15, TRITON W-30, DOWFAX
     2A1, DOWFAX 3B2, DOWFAX 8390, DOWFAX C6L, TRITON X-200, TRITON
                                               - 16 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     XN-45S, TRITON H-55, TRITON GR-5M, TRITON BG-10, and TRITON CG-110,
     each available from The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Michigan.
              The alkyd dispersion further comprises a fluid medium. The fluid medium may
     be any medium; for example, the fluid medium may be water. The alkyd dispersion of
 5   the present invention comprises 35 to 75 percent by weight of fluid medium, based on
     the total weight of the dispersion. In particular embodiments, the water content may be
     in the range of from 35 to 65, or in the alternative from 35 to 55, or in the alternative
     from 45 to 55 percent by weight, based on the total weight of the dispersion. Water
     content of the alkyd dispersion may preferably be controlled so that the solids content is
10   between about 1 percent to about 90 percent by weight, based on the total weight of the
     dispersion. In particular embodiments, the solids range may be between about 10
     percent to about 70 percent by weight. In other particular embodiments, the solids
     range is between about 40 percent to about 70 percent by weight. In certain other
     embodiments, the solids range is between about 25 percent to about 55 percent by
15   weight.
              The solid content of the alkyd dispersion has an average particle size diameter
     in the range of from 0.05 to 5 pm. All individual values and subranges from 0.05 to 5
       m are included herein and disclosed herein; for example, the average particle size
     diameter can be from a lower limit of 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, or 1 pm to an upper limit of 1,
20   2, 3, 4, or 5 m.
              The alkyd dispersion according to the present invention may further be blended
     with one or more binder compositions such as acrylic latex, vinyl acrylic latex, styrene
     acrylic latex, vinyl acetate ethylene latex, and combinations thereof; optionally one or
     more solvents; optionally one or more co-solvents; optionally one or more fillers;
25   optionally one or more additives; optionally one or more pigments, e.g. titanium
     dioxide, mica, calcium carbonate, silica, zinc oxide, milled glass, aluminum trihydrate,
     talc, antimony trioxide, fly ash, and clay; optionally one or more dispersants, e.g.
     aminoalcohols, and polycarboxylates; optionally one or more surfactants; optionally
     one or more defoamers; optionally one or more preservatives, e.g. biocides,
30   mildewcides, fungicides, algaecides, and combinations thereof; optionally one or more
     thickeners, e.g. cellulosic based thickeners such as hydroxyethyl cellulose,
     hydrophobically modified alkali soluble emulsions and hydrophobically modified
                                               - 17 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     ethoxylated urethane thickeners (HEUR); optionally one or more biocides; optionally
     more defoamers; optionally one or more flow agents; optionally one or more leveling
     agents; or optionally one or more additional neutralizing agents, e.g. hydroxides,
     amines, ammonia, and carbonates.
 5           The alkyd dispersion may further comprise a colorant as part of the alkyd
     dispersion. A variety of colors may be used. Examples include colors such as yellow,
     magenta, and cyan. As a black coloring agent, carbon black, and a coloring agent toned
     to black using the yellow/magenta/cyan coloring agents shown below may be used.
     Colorants, as used herein, include dyes, pigments, and pre-dispersions, among others.
10   These colorants may be used singly, in a mixture, or as a solid solution. In various
     embodiments, pigments may be provided in the form of raw pigments, treated
     pigments, pre-milled pigments, pigment powders, pigment presscakes, pigment
     masterbatches, recycled pigment, and solid or liquid pigment pre-dispersions. As used
     herein, a raw pigment is a pigment particle that has had no wet treatments applied to its
15   surface, such as to deposit various coatings on the surface. Raw pigment and treated
     pigment are further discussed in PCT Publication No. WO 2005/095277 and U.S.
     Patent Application Publication No. 20060078485, the relevant portions of which are
     incorporated herein by reference. In contrast, a treated pigment may have undergone
     wet treatment, such as to provide metal oxide coatings on the particle surfaces.
20   Examples of metal oxide coatings include alumina, silica, and zirconia. Recycled
     pigment may also be used as the starting pigment particles, where recycled pigment is
     pigment after wet treatment of insufficient quality to be sold as coated pigment.
               Exemplary colorant particles include, but are not limited to, pigments such as
     yellow coloring agent, compounds typified by a condensed azo compound, an
25   isoindolynone compound, an anthraquinone compound, an azometal complex methine
     compound, and an allylamide compound as pigments may be used. As a magenta
     coloring agent, a condensed azo compound, a diketopyrrolopyrrole compound,
     anthraquinone, a quinacridone compound, a base dye lake compound, a naphthol
     compound, a benzimidazolone compound, a thioindigo compound, and a perylene
30   compound may be used. As a cyan coloring agent, a copper phthalocyanine compound
     and its derivative, an anthraquinone compound, a base dye lake compound, and the like
     may be used.
                                              - 18 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
              In one embodiment, one or more alkyds, one or more stabilizing agents are
     melt-kneaded in an extruder along with water and a neutralizing agent, such as
     ammonia, potassium hydroxide, or a combination of the two to form an alkyd
     dispersion. In another embodiment, one or more liquid alkyds, one or more stabilizing
 5   agents are melt-kneaded in an extruder along with water and a neutralizing agent, such
     as ammonia, potassium hydroxide, or a combination of the two to form an alkyd
     dispersion. In some embodiments, the dispersion is first diluted to contain about 1 to
     about 20 percent by weight water and then, subsequently, further diluted to comprise
     greater than about 25 percent by weight water.
10            Any melt-kneading means known in the art may be used. In some
     embodiments, a kneader, a BANBURY* mixer, single-screw extruder, or a multi-screw
     extruder, e.g. a twin screw extruder, is used. A process for producing the dispersions in
     accordance with the present invention is not particularly limited. For example, an
     extruder, in certain embodiments, for example, a twin screw extruder, is coupled to a
15   back pressure regulator, melt pump, or gear pump. Exemplary embodiments also
     provide a base reservoir and an initial water reservoir, each of which includes a pump.
     Desired amounts of base and initial water are provided from the base reservoir and the
     initial water reservoir, respectively. Any suitable pump may be used, but in some
     embodiments, for example, a pump that provides a flow of about 150 cc/min at a
20   pressure of 240 bar is used to provide the base and the initial water to the extruder. In
     other embodiments, a liquid injection pump provides a flow of 300 cc/min at 200 bar or
     600 cc/min at 133 bar. In some embodiments, the base and initial water are preheated
     in a preheater.
              One or more alkyds, in the form of liquid, pellets, powder, or flakes, are fed
25   from the feeder to an inlet of the extruder where the resin is melted or compounded.
     Optionally one or more fillers may be fed simultaneously with one or more alkyds into
     the extruder via the feeder; or in the alternative, one or more fillers may be
     compounded into one or more alkyds, and then fed into the extruder via the feeder. In
     the alternative, additional one or more fillers may further be metered via an inlet prior
30   to the emulsification zone into the molten compound comprising one or more alkyds
     and optionally one or more fillers. In some embodiments, the stabilizing agent is added
                                                - 19 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     to one or more alkyds through and along with the one or more alkyds and in other
     embodiments, the stabilizing agent is provided separately to the twin screw extruder.
     The resin melt is then delivered from the mix and convey zone to an emulsification
     zone of the extruder where the initial amount of water and base from the water and base
 5   reservoirs are added through an inlet. In some embodiments, stabilizing agent may be
     added additionally or exclusively to the water stream. In some embodiments, further
     dilution water may be added via water inlet from water reservoir in a dilution and
     cooling zone of the extruder. Typically, the dispersion is diluted to at least 30 weight
     percent water in the cooling zone. In addition, the diluted mixture may be diluted any
10   number of times until the desired dilution level is achieved. In some embodiments,
     water is not added into the twin screw extruder but rather to a stream containing the
     resin melt after the melt has exited from the extruder. In this manner, steam pressure
     build-up in the extruder is eliminated and the dispersion is formed in a secondary
     mixing device such as a rotor stator mixer.
15            In an alternative, one or more alkyds, in the form of liquid or molten are fed into
     a first mixing device, such as a rotor stator mixer, and brought into contact with water,
     and optionally a neutralizing agent, in the presence of one or more stabilizing agents,
     thereby forming a high internal phase emulsion. Subsequently, the high internal phase
     emulsion is contacted with additional water, thereby producing the alkyd dispersion of
20   the present invention. The one or more alkyds may be melted via, for example, a melt
     pump. Such melt pumps are generally known to a person of ordinary skill in the art.
              The aqueous alkyd dispersions are substantially free of any volatile organic
     compounds; for example, the aqueous alkyd dispersions are free of any volatile organic
     compounds. Substantially free of any volatile organic compounds, such as certain
25   solvents, refers to the inventive alkyd dispersions comprising less than 0.5 percent by
     weight of any volatile organic compounds, based on the total weight of the dispersion;
     for example, less than 0.05 weight percent, or less than 0.01 weight percent. The
     aqueous alkyd dispersion has a viscosity in the range of from 100 to 10,000 cP; for
     example, from 100 to 1,000 cP. The inventive aqueous alkyd dispersion has a pH in
30   the range of less than 12; for example, less than 11, or less than 10, or less than 9, and
     greater than 5, or greater than 6, or greater than 7.
                                               - 20 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
              The continuous process for producing the aqueous, high-solid, solvent- free
     alkyd dispersion, comprises the steps of: (1) providing one or more molten or liquid
     alkyds, wherein each said one or more molten or liquid alkyds has an acid number of
     less than 20 and a molecular weight (Me) in the range of greater than 1000 Dalton; (2)
 5   providing one or more stabilizing agents; (3) providing water; (4) optionally providing
     one or more neutralizing agents; (5) continuously emulsifying said one or more molten
     or liquid alkyds in the water in the presence of said one or more surfactants and
     optionally said one or more neutralizing agents; (6) thereby producing a high internal
     phase emulsion; (7) providing additional water; (8) contacting said high internal phase
10   emulsion with said additional water; (9) thereby producing said aqueous alkyd
     dispersion, wherein said alkyd dispersion comprises from 45 to 70 percent by weight of
     said one or more alkyds, from less than 10 percent by weight of said one or more
     stabilizing agents, and wherein said dispersion has an average particle size diameter in
     the range of from 0.05 to 5 pm.
15            Suitable driers for use in the alkyd dispersion component of the present
     invention include without limitation, metal-containing compounds; for example, cobalt,
     zirconium, manganese, calcium, zinc, copper, barium, vanadium, cerium, iron,
     potassium, strontium, aluminum, bismuth and lithium-containing compounds.
     Examples of non-metallic drier promoters include 8-hydroxyquinoline, quinoline,
20   salicyl aldoxime, pyridine-2-carbaldoxime, acetylacetonate enamines, 2-2'-bipyridyl,
     ethylenediamine, propylenediamine, pyridine, o-vinylpyridine, o-aminopyridine,
     aniline, o-phenylenediamine, o-toluidine, alpha-naphthylamine, o-phenanthroline,
     dipropylamine, diamylamine, acrylonitrile, succinonitrile, o-tolunitrile, o-toluamide,
     pyrrole, benzimidazole, benzotriazole, benzophenone, benzophenone methacrylate, and
25   the like. Driers and drier promoters can be present in the range of 0.0002 weight
     percent to 1.0 weight percent, based on the total weight of the alkyd, for example, from
     0.0002 weight percent to 0.5 weight percent, based on the weight of the alkyd; or in the
     alternative, from 0.0005 weight percent to 0.5 weight percent. Oxi-Coat (OMG Fe
     based drier) as well as combination of Co Hydro-Cure II, Dri-RX HF, and Zr Hydro
30   CEM can be used to yield a coating improved performance profile.
                                                - 21 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     Second Dispersion/Second Emulsion Component
             The coating composition comprises from 10 to 90 percent by weight of one or
     more second dispersions, one or more second emulsions, or combinations thereof ; for
     example, from 20 to 90 percent by weight; or in the alternative, from 30 to 90 weight
 5   percent; or in the alternative, from 40 to 85weight percent; or in the alternative, from 30
     to 80 weight percent. All individual values and subranges from 10 to 90 weight percent
     are included herein and disclosed herein; for example, the weight percent can be from a
     lower limit of 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, or 85 to an upper limit 20, 30, 40, 50, 60,
     70, 80, or 90.
10           The second dispersion may be selected from the group consisting of a
     polyurethane dispersion, a polyolefin dispersion, an epoxy resin dispersion, and a
     polyester dispersion.
             The second emulsion may be an emulsion polymer latex selected from the
     group consisting of acrylic latex, vinyl acetate acrylic latex, styrene acrylic latex, vinyl
15   acetate ethylene latex, and combinations thereof.
     Polyurethane Dispersion
             The second dispersion may be a polyurethane dispersion, for example, a natural
     oil based (NOP) polyurethane dispersion.
             A natural oil based polyurethane dispersion may comprise a hydrophobic
20   polyurethane dispersion derived from one or more natural oil based polyols. In the
     alternative, the polyurethane dispersion comprises a hydrophobic polyurethane
     prepolymer derived from one or more natural oil based polyols.
             The hydrophobic polyurethane dispersion component may be prepared by
     forming an isocyanate-terminated prepolymer, dispersing the prepolymer in an aqueous
25   phase, and then forming the polyurethane and/or urea polymer by chain-extending the
     prepolymer. The prepolymer itself is made by reacting an excess of a polyisocyanate
     with a polyol derived from one or more natural oil based polyols.
             The polyurethane prepolymer derived from one or more natural oil based
     polyols used in the present invention may be produced by any conventionally known
30   processes, for example, solution process, hot melt process, or polyurethane prepolymer
     mixing process, for example, in batch or continuous process. Furthermore, the
     polyurethane prepolymer derived from one or more natural oil based polyols may, for
                                               - 22 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     example, be produced via a process for reacting a polyisocyanate compound with an
     active hydrogen-containing compound, that is, one or more natural oil based polyols,
     and examples thereof include 1) a process for reacting a polyisocyanate compound with
     one or more natural oil based polyols without using an organic solvent, and 2) a process
 5   for reacting a polyisocyanate compound with one or more natural oil based polyols in
     an organic solvent, for example, N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP), or Acetone, or Methyl
     Ethyl Ketone (MEK), PROGLYDE DMM (dipropylene glycol dimethyl ether, CAS
     No. 111109-77-4), followed optionally by removal of the solvent. In one embodiment,
     the polyurethane prepolymer is preferably derived from the reaction of a
10   polyisocyanate compound with one or more natural oil based polyols, for example, seed
     oil derived polyol.
              For example, the polyisocyanate compound may be reacted with one or more
     natural oil based polyols at a temperature in the range of 20 'C to 150 'C; or in the
     alternative, in the range of 30 'C to 130 'C, at an equivalent ratio of an isocyanate
15   group to an active hydrogen group of, for example, from 1.1:1 to 3:1, or in the
     alternative, from 1.2:1 to 2:1. In the alternative, the prepolymer may be prepared with
     an excess amount of one or more natural oil based polyols thereby facilitating the
     production of hydroxyl terminal polymers.
              The natural oil based polyols are polyols based on or derived from renewable
20   feedstock resources such as natural and/or genetically modified plant vegetable seed
     oils and/or animal source fats. Such oils and/or fats are generally comprised of
     triglycerides, that is, fatty acids linked together with glycerol. Examples include, but
     are not limited to, vegetable oils that have at least 70 percent unsaturated fatty acids in
     the triglyceride. The natural product may contain at least 85 percent by weight of
25   unsaturated fatty acids. Exemplary vegetable oils include, but are not limited to, for
     example, those from castor, soybean, olive, peanut, rapeseed, corn, sesame, cotton,
     canola, safflower, linseed, palm, grapeseed, black caraway, pumpkin kernel, borage
     seed, wood germ, apricot kernel, pistachio, almond, macadamia nut, avocado, sea
     buckthorn, hemp, hazelnut, evening primrose, wild rose, thistle, walnut, sunflower,
30   jatropha seed oils, or any combinations thereof. Additionally, oils obtained from
     organisms such as algae may also be used. Exemplary animal products include, but are
                                                 - 23 -

not limited to, lard, beef tallow, fish oils and any mixtures or combinations thereof. A
combination of vegetable and animal based oils/fats may also be used.
        Several chemistries can be used to modify seed oils and seed oil esters in order to
prepare the natural oil based polyols. Such modifications of a renewable resource include,
but are not limited to, for example, epoxidation, hydroxylation, ozonolysis, esterification,
hydroformylation, dimerization, or alkoxylation. Such modifications are commonly
known in the art.
        After the production of such polyols by modification of the natural oils, the
modified products may be further alkoxylated. The use of ethylene oxide (EO) or
mixtures of EO with other oxides, introduces hydrophilic moieties into the polyol. In one
embodiment, the modified product undergoes alkoxylation with sufficient EO to produce
a natural oil based polyol having an EO content in the range of 10 to 60 weight percent,
for example, 20 to 40 weight percent.
        In another embodiment. the natural oil based polyols are obtained by a multi
step process wherein the animal or vegetable oils/fats are subjected to transesterification
and the constituent fatty acid esters recovered. This step is followed by hydroformylating
carbon-carbon double bonds in the constituent fatty acid esters to form hydroxymethyl
groups, and then forming a polyester or polyether/polyester by reaction of the
hydroxymethylated fatty acid with an appropriate initiator compound.
Such a multi-step process is disclosed, and is described, for example, in the PCT
Publication Nos. WO 2004/096882 and 2004/096883. The multi-step process results in
the production of a polyol with both hydrophobic and hydrophilic moieties, which results
in enhanced miscibility with both water and conventional petroleum-based polyols.
        The initiator for use in the multi-step process for the production of the natural oil
based polyols may be any initiator used in the production of conventional petroleum
based polyols. The initiator may, for example, be selected from the group consisting of
neopentylglycol; 1,2-propylene glycol; trimethylolpropane; pentaerythritol; sorbitol;
sucrose; glycerol; diethanolamine; alkanediols such as 1,6- hexanediol, 1,4-butanediol;
 1,4-cyclohexane diol; 2,5-hexanediol; ethylene glycol; diethylene glycol, triethylene
glycol; bis-3-aminopropyl methylamine; ethylene diamine; diethylene triamine; 9(1)
hydroxymethyloctadecanol, 1,4
                                              -24-

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     bishydroxymethylcyclohexane; 8,8-bis(hydroxymethyl)tricyclo[5,2,1,02,6] decene;
     Dimerol alcohol (36 carbon diol available from Henkel Corporation); hydrogenated
     bisphenol; 9,9(10,10)-bishydroxymethyloctadecanol; 1,2,6-hexanetriol and
     combination thereof. In the alternative, the initiator may be selected from the group
 5   consisting of glycerol; ethylene glycol; 1,2-propylene glycol; trimethylolpropane;
     ethylene diamine; pentaerythritol; diethylene triamine; sorbitol; sucrose; or any of the
     aforementioned where at least one of the alcohol or amine groups present therein has
     been reacted with ethylene oxide, propylene oxide or mixture thereof; and combination
     thereof. In another alternative, the initiator is glycerol, trimethylopropane,
10   pentaerythritol, sucrose, sorbitol, and/or mixture thereof.
              In one embodiment, the initiators are alkoxlyated with ethylene oxide or a
     mixture of ethylene oxide and at least one other alkylene oxide to give an alkoxylated
     initiator with a molecular weight in the range of from 200 to 6000, for example, in the
     range of from 500 to 3000.
15            The functionality of the at least one natural oil based polyol, is above about 1.5
     and generally not higher than about 6. In one embodiment, the functionality is below
     about 4. In one embodiment the functionality is in the range of from 1.5 to 3. In one
     embodiment the functionality is in the range of from 1.5 to 2.2, for example, 2. The
     hydroxyl number of the at least one natural oil based polyol is below 300 mg KOH/g;
20   for example, in the range of from 50 and 300; or in the alternative, in the range of from
     60 to 200; or in the alternative, in the range of less than 100.
              The level of renewable feedstock in the natural oil based polyol can be from 10
     to 100 percent; for example, from 10 to 90 percent.
              The natural oil based polyols may constitute up to 90 weight percent of a polyol
25   blend. However, in one embodiment, the natural oil based polyol may constitute at least
     5 weight percent, at least 10 weight percent, at least 25 weight percent, at least 35
     weight percent, at least 40 weight percent, at least 50 weight percent, or at least 55
     weight percent of the total weight of the polyol blend. The natural oil based polyols
     may constitute 40 percent or more, 50 weight percent or more, 60 weight percent or
30   more, 75 weight percent or more, 85 weight percent or more, 90 weight percent or
     more, or 95 weight percent or more of the total weight of the combined polyols.
     Combination of two types or more of natural oil based polyols may also be used.
                                                - 25 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
             The viscosity measured at 25'C of the natural oil based polyols is generally less
     than 6,000 mPa.s; for example, the viscosity measured at 25'C of the natural oil based
     polyols is less than 5,000 mPa.s.
             The natural oil based polyol may also be blended with one or more polyols
 5   including, but not limited to, aliphatic and/or aromatic polyester polyols including
     caprolactone based polyester polyols, any polyester/polyether hybrid polyols, PTMEG
     based polyether polyols; polyether polyols based on ethylene oxide, propylene oxide,
     butylene oxide and mixtures thereof; polycarbonate polyols; polyacetal polyols,
     polyacrylate polyols; polyesteramide polyols; polythioether polyols; polyolefin polyols
10   such as saturated or unsaturated polybutadiene polyols. The natural oil based polyol
     may also be blended with one or more short chain diols, one or more molecules that
     bear ionic centers such as dimethylol propionic acid; dimethylol butonic acid.
             Examples of the polyisocyanate compound include 2,4-tolylene diisocyanate,
     2,6-tolylene diisocyanate, m-phenylene diisocyanate, p-phenylene diisocyanate, 4,4'
15   diphenylmethane diisocyanate, 2,4'-diphenylmethane diisocyanate, 2,2'
     diphenylmethane diisocyanate, 3,3'-dimethyl-4,4'-biphenylene diisocyanate, 3,3'
     dimethoxy-4,4'-biphenylene diisocyanate, 3,3'-dichloro-4,4'-biphenylene diisocyanate,
      1,5-naphthalene diisocyanate, 1,5-tetrahydronaphthalene diisocyanate, tetramethylene
     diisocyanate, 1,6-hexamethylene diisocyanate, dodecamethylene diisocyanate,
20   trimethylhexamethylene diisocyanate, 1,3 and 1,4-bis(isocyanatemethyl) cyclohexane,
     xylylene diisocyanate, tetramethylxylylene diisocyanate, hydrogenated xylylene
     diisocyanate, lysine diisocyanate, isophorone diisocyanate, 4,4'-dicyclohexylmethane
     diisocyanate, 3,3'-dimethyl-4,4'-dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate, isomers thereof,
     and/or combinations thereof.
25           The polyurethane prepolymer derived from natural oil based polyols could be
     prepared in the presence of one or more reactive or un-reactive ethylenically
     unsaturated monomers. Such monomers may further be polymerized.
             The polyurethane prepolymer derived from natural oil based polyols may
     further include a hydrophilic group. The term "hydrophilic group," as used herein,
30   refers to an anionic group (for example, carboxyl group, sulfonic acid group, or
     phosphoric acid group), or a cationic group (for example, tertiary amino group, or
     quaternary amino group), or a nonionic hydrophilic group (for example, a group
                                               - 26 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     composed of a repeating unit of ethylene oxide, or a group composed of a repeating
     unit of ethylene oxide and a repeating unit of another alkylene oxide).
              Among hydrophilic groups, a nonionic hydrophilic group having a repeating
     unit of ethylene oxide may, for example, be used. Introduction of a carboxyl group
 5   and/or a sulfonic acid group may be effective to make the particle size finer.
              When the ionic group is an anionic group, the neutralizer used for neutralization
     includes, for example, nonvolatile bases such as sodium hydroxide and potassium
     hydroxide; and volatile bases such as tertiary amines (for example, trimethylamine,
     triethylamine, dimethylethanolamine, methyldiethanolamine, and triethanolamine) and
10   ammonia can be used.
              When the ionic group is a cationic group, usable neutralizer includes, for
     example, inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, and nitric acid; and
     organic acids such as formic acid and acetic acid.
              Neutralization may be conducted before, during or after the polymerization of
15   the polyurethane prepolymer derived from natural oil based polyols having an ionic
     group. The neutralization may be affected by adding the neutralizing agent directly to
     the polyurethane prepolymer derived from natural oil based polyols or by adding to the
     aqueous phase during the production of polyurethane dispersion.
              Polyurethane prepolymers are typically chain extended via a chain extender.
20   Any chain extender known to be useful to those of ordinary skill in the art of preparing
     polyurethanes can be used with the present invention. Such chain extenders typically
     have a molecular weight in the range of from 18 to 500 and have at least two active
     hydrogen containing groups. Polyamines are an exemplary class of chain extenders.
     Other materials, particularly water, can function to extend chain length and so are chain
25   extenders for purposes of the present invention. It is particularly preferred that the
     chain extender is water or a mixture of water and an amine such as, for example,
     aminated polypropylene glycols such as JEFFAMINE D-400 from Huntsman Chemical
     Company, amino ethyl piperazine, 2-methyl piperazine, 1,5-diamino-3-methyl-pentane,
     isophorone diamine, ethylene diamine, diethylene triamine, triethylene tetramine,
30   triethylene pentamine, ethanol amine, lysine in any of its stereoisomeric forms and salts
     thereof, hexane diamine, hydrazine and piperazine. In the practice of the present
     invention, the chain extender may be used as a solution of chain extender in water.
                                              - 27 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
             The polyurethane dispersion may be produced via a batch process or a
     continuous process. Polyurethane prepolymer derived from natural oil based polyols,
     optionally a surfactant, and water are fed into a mixer, for example, an OAKS mixer or
     an IKA mixer, thereby dispersing the polyurethane prepolymer derived from natural oil
 5   based polyols into the water. Subsequently, the dispersed polyurethane prepolymers
     derived from natural oil based polyols are chain extended with one or more primary or
     secondary amine to form the polyurethane dispersion.
             In one embodiment, the aqueous polyurethane dispersion is made by mixing the
     prepolymer derived from natural oil based polyols with water, optionally in the
10   presence of a surfactant or other additive and/or phase modifier and/or a chain extender,
     at a temperature of from 25 to 900 C, to render the desired polyurethane dispersion.
     The amount of water, and optional chain extender, reacted with the prepolymer is an
     equivalent amount to the isocyanate functionality in the prepolymer derived from
     natural oil based polyols. An excess of water may also be used.
15           In addition to chain extenders, one or more surfactants may be included in the
     water phase. The surfactant may be anionic, ionic, cationic or zwitterionic or a mixture
     of monionic with cationic, anionic or zwitterionic. Preferred are nonionic and anionic
     surfactants. The surfactant, which is not incorporated into the polymer backbone, is
     selected from the group consisting of metal or ammonia salts of sulfonates, phosphates
20   and carboxylates. Suitable surfactants include alkali metal salts of fatty acids such as
     sodium stearate, sodium palmitate, potassium oleate, alkali metal salts of fatty acid
     sulfates such as sodium lauryl sulfate, the alkali metal salts of alkylbenzenesulfones
     and alkylnaphthalenesulfones      such as sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate,         sodium
     alkylnaphthalene-sulfonate; the alkali metal salts of dialkyl-sulfosuccinates; the alkali
25   metal     salts    of    sulfated    alkylphenol     ethoxylates    such    as    sodium
     octylphenoxypolyethoxyethyl sulfate; the alkali metal salts of polyethoxyalcohol
     sulfates and the alkali metal salts of polyethoxyalkylphenol sulfates. More preferably,
     the anionic surfactant is sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate, sodium dodecyl sulfonate,
     sodium dodecyl diphenyl oxide disulfonate, sodium n-decyl diphenyl oxide disulfonate,
30   isopropylamine dodecylbenzenesulfonate, or sodium hexyl diphenyl oxide disulfonate,
     and most preferably, the anionic surfactant is sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate.
     Preferred nonionic surfactants are ethylene oxide adducts of phenols, such as nonyl
                                              - 28 -

phenol. When present, the surfactant typically contains from 0.1 to 6 weight percent of
the polyurethane dispersion, most preferably from 0.5 to 4 weight percent. In general, it
is desired to add a sufficient amount of surfactant so as to render a dispersion having an
average particle size wherein 50 and 1000 nm and a polydispersity of from 1.0 to 2.0.
Further, if the prepolymer is self-emulsifying by inclusion of emulsifying nonionic,
cationic, or anionic groups, then an external surfactant may or may not be necessary.
Epoxy Dispersion
         The second dispersion may comprise an epoxy dispersion. Epoxy resin refers to a
composition which possesses one or more vicinal epoxy groups per molecule, that is, at
least one 1,2-epoxy group per molecule. In general, such compound is a saturated or
unsaturated aliphatic, cycloaliphatic, aromatic or heterocyclic compound which possesses
at least one 1,2-epoxy group. Such compound can be substituted, if desired, with one or
more non-interfering substituents, such as halogen atoms, hydroxy groups, ether radicals,
lower alkyls and the like.
         Illustrative epoxies are described in the Handbook ofEpoxy Resins by H.E. Lee
and K. Neville published in 1967 by McGraw-Hill, New York and U.S. Patent No.
4,066,628, incorporated herein by reference.
         Particularly useful compounds which can be used in the practice of the present
invention are epoxy resins having the following formula:
wherein n has an average value of 0 or more.
         The epoxy resins useful in the present invention may include, for example, the
glycidyl polyethers of polyhydric phenols and polyhydric alcohols. As an illustration,
examples of disclosed epoxy resins that may be used in the present invention, include for
example, the diglycidyl ethers of resorcinol, catechol, hydroquinone, bisphenol,
bisphenol A, bisphenol AP (1,1-bis(4-hydroxylphenyl)-1-phenyl ethane), bisphenol F,
bisphenol K, tetrabromobisphenol A, phenol-formaldehyde novolac resins, alkyl
                                             - 29  -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     substituted phenol-formaldehyde resins, phenol-hydroxybenzaldehyde resins, cresol
     hydroxybenzaldehyde resins, dicyclopentadiene-phenol resins, dicyclopentadiene
     substituted phenol resins tetramethylbiphenol, tetramethyl-tetrabromobiphenol,
     tetramethyltribromobiphenol, tetrachlorobisphenol A and any combination thereof.
 5           Examples of diepoxides particularly useful in the present invention include
     diglycidyl ether of 2,2-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl) propane (generally referred to as
     bisphenol A) and diglycidyl ether of 2,2-bis(3,5-dibromo-4-hydroxyphenyl) propane
     (generally referred to as tetrabromobisphenol A). Mixtures of any two or more
     polyepoxides can also be used in the practice of the present invention.
10           Other diepoxides which can be employed in the practice of the present invention
     include the diglycidyl ethers of dihydric phenols, such as those described in U.S. Patent
     Nos. 5,246,751; 5,115,075; 5,089,588; 4,480, 082 and 4, 438,254, all of which are
     incorporated herein by reference, or the diglycidyl esters of dicarboxylic acids such as
     those described in U. S. Pat. No. 5,171,820. Other suitable diepoxides include for
15   example, aco-diglycidyloxyisopropylidene-bisphenol-based epoxy resins (commercially
     known as D.E.R. 300 and 600 series epoxy resins, products of The Dow Chemical
     Company, Midland, Michigan).
             The epoxy resins which can be employed in the practice of the present invention
     also include epoxy resins prepared either by reaction of diglycidyl ethers of dihydric
20   phenols with dihydric phenols or by reaction of dihydric phenols with epichlorohydrin
     (also known as "taffy resins").
             Exemplary epoxy resins include, for example, the diglycidyl ethers of bisphenol
     A; 4,4'- sulfonyldiphenol; 4,4- oxydiphenol; 4,4'-dihydroxybenzophenone; resorcinol;
     hydroquinone; 9,9'- bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)fluorene; 4,4'-dihydroxybiphenyl or 4, 4
25   dihydroxy-a-methylstilbene and the diglycidyl esters of the dicarboxylic acids.
             Other useful epoxide compounds which can be used in the practice of the
     present invention are cycloaliphatic epoxides. A cycloaliphatic epoxide consists of a
     saturated carbon ring having an epoxy oxygen bonded to two vicinal atoms in the
     carbon ring for example as illustrated by the following general formula:
                                              - 30 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
                                            [oRR
                                              -~-         n
     wherein R is a hydrocarbon group optionally comprising one or more heteroatoms
     (such as, without limitation thereto Cl, Br, and S), or an atom or group of atoms
     forming a stable bond with carbon (such as, without limitation thereto, Si, P and B) and
 5   wherein n is greater than or equal to 1.
             The cycloaliphatic epoxide may be a monoepoxide, a diepoxide, a polyepoxide,
     or a mixture of those. For example, any of the cycloaliphatic epoxide described in U.S.
     Patent No. 3,686,359, incorporated herein by reference, may be used in the present
     invention. As an illustration, the cycloaliphatic epoxides that may be used in the
10   present invention include, for example, (3,4-epoxycyclohexyl-methyl)-3,4-epoxy
     cyclohexane carboxylate, bis-(3,4-epoxycyclohexyl) adipate, vinylcyclohexene
     monoxide and mixtures thereof.
     Polymeric Based Dispersions
             The second dispersion may comprise a polymeric based dispersion such as a
15   polyolefin dispersion. The polymeric dispersion may comprise (a) at least one or more
     base polymers, (b) optionally one or more surfactants, and (c) a fluid medium.
             (a) Base Polymer
             The polymeric based dispersion comprises from 5 to 99 percent by weight of
     one or more base polymers, based on the total weight of the solid content of the
20   polymeric based dispersion. All individual values and subranges from 5 to 99 weight
     percent are included herein and disclosed herein; for example, the weight percent can
     be from a lower limit of 5, 8, 10, 15, 20, 25 weight percent to an upper limit of 40, 50,
     60,70, 80, 90, 95, or 99 weight percent. For example, the polymeric based dispersion
     may comprise from 15 to 99; or in the alternative from 15 to 90; or in the alternative
25   from 15 to 80 percent, by weight of one or more base polymers, based on the total
     weight of the solid content of the polymeric based dispersion. The polymeric based
     dispersion comprises at least one or more base polymers. The base polymer may, for
     example, be selected from the group consisting of a thermoplastic material, and a
                                               - 31 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     thermoset material. The one or more base polymers may comprise one or more olefin
     based polymers, one or more acrylic based polymers, one or more polyester based
     polymers, one or more solid epoxy polymers, one or more thermoplastic polyurethane
     polymers, one or more styrenic based polymers, or combinations thereof.
 5           Examples of thermoplastic materials include, but are not limited to,
     homopolymers and copolymers (including elastomers) of an alpha-olefins such as
     ethylene, propylene, 1-butene, 3-methyl-1-butene, 4-methyl-1-pentene, 3-methyl-i
     pentene, 1-heptene, 1-hexene, 1-octene, 1-decene, and 1-dodecene, as typically
     represented by polyethylene, polypropylene, poly- 1-butene, poly-3-methyl- 1-butene,
10   poly-3-methyl- 1-pentene, poly-4-methyl-1-pentene, ethylene-propylene copolymer,
     ethylene-l-butene copolymer, and propylene-i -butene copolymer; copolymers
     (including elastomers) of an alpha-olefin with a conjugated or non-conjugated diene, as
     typically represented by ethylene-butadiene copolymer and ethylene-ethylidene
     norbornene copolymer; and polyolefins (including elastomers) such as copolymers of
15   two or more alpha-olefins with a conjugated or non-conjugated diene, as typically
     represented by ethylene-propylene-butadiene copolymer, ethylene-propylene
     dicyclopentadiene copolymer, ethylene-propylene-1,5-hexadiene copolymer, and
     ethylene-propylene-ethylidene norbornene copolymer; ethylene-vinyl compound
     copolymers such as ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer, ethylene-vinyl alcohol
20   copolymer, ethylene-vinyl chloride copolymer, ethylene acrylic acid or ethylene
     (meth)acrylic acid copolymers, and ethylene- (meth)acrylate copolymer; styrenic
     copolymers (including elastomers) such as polystyrene, ABS, acrylonitrile-styrene
     copolymer, ca-methylstyrene-styrene copolymer, styrene vinyl alcohol, styrene
     acrylates such as styrene methylacrylate, styrene butyl acrylate, styrene butyl
25   methacrylate, and styrene butadienes and crosslinked styrene polymers; and styrene
     block copolymers (including elastomers) such as styrene-butadiene copolymer and
     hydrate thereof, and styrene-isoprene-styrene triblock copolymer; polyvinyl compounds
     such as polyvinyl chloride, polyvinylidene chloride, vinyl chloride-vinylidene chloride
     copolymer, polymethyl acrylate, and polymethyl methacrylate; polyamides such as
30   nylon 6, nylon 6,6, and nylon 12; thermoplastic polyesters such as polyethylene
     terephthalate and polybutylene terephthalate; polycarbonate, polyphenylene oxide, and
                                             - 32 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     the like; and glassy hydrocarbon-based resins, including poly-dicyclopentadiene
     polymers and related polymers (copolymers, terpolymers); saturated mono-olefins such
     as vinyl acetate, vinyl propionate, vinyl versatate, and vinyl butyrate and the like; vinyl
     esters such as esters of monocarboxylic acids, including methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate,
 5   n-butyl acrylate, isobutyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, dodecyl acrylate, n-octyl
     acrylate, phenyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, and butyl
     methacrylate and the like; acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, acrylamide, mixtures thereof;
     resins produced by ring opening metathesis and cross metathesis polymerization and
     the like. These resins may be used either alone or in combinations of two or more.
10            Examples of suitable (meth)acrylates, as base polymers, include methyl
     acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, hexyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, octyl
     acrylate and isooctyl acrylate, n-decyl acrylate, isodecyl acrylate, tert-butyl acrylate,
     methyl methacrylate, butyl methacrylate, hexyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate,
     isopropyl methacrylate as well as 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate and acrylamide. The
15   preferred (meth)acrylates are methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, 2
     ethylhexyl acrylate, octyl acrylate, isooctyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate and butyl
     methacrylate. Other suitable (meth)acrylates that can be polymerized from monomers
     include lower alkyl acrylates and methacrylates including acrylic and methacrylic ester
     monomers: methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, n-butyl acrylate, t-butyl acrylate, 2
20   ethylhexyl acrylate, decyl acrylate, isobornyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, ethyl
     methacrylate, n-propyl methacrylate, isopropyl methacrylate, n-butyl methacrylate,
     isobutyl methacrylate, sec-butyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, isodecyl
     methacrylate, isobomyl methacrylate, t-butylaminoethyl methacrylate, stearyl
     methacrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, dicyclopentenyl methacrylate, phenyl
25   methacrylate.
              In selected embodiments, base polymer may, for example, comprise a
     polyolefin selected from the group consisting of ethylene-alpha olefin copolymers, and
     propylene-alpha olefin copolymers. In particular, in select embodiments, the base
     polymer may comprise one or more non-polar polyolefins.
30            In specific embodiments, polyolefins such as polypropylene, polyethylene,
     copolymers      thereof, and blends thereof, as well as ethylene-propylene-diene
                                                - 33 -

terpolymers, may be used. In some embodiments, preferred olefinic polymers include
homogeneous polymers, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,645,992 issued to Elston; high
density polyethylene (HDPE), as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,076,698 issued to
Anderson; heterogeneously branched linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE);
heterogeneously branched ultra low linear density polyethylene (ULDPE);
homogeneously branched, linear ethylene/alpha-olefin copolymers; homogeneously
branched, substantially linear ethylene/alpha-olefin polymers, which can be prepared, for
example, by processes disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,272,236 and 5,278,272, the
disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference; and high pressure, free radical
polymerized ethylene polymers and copolymers such as low density polyethylene
(LDPE) or ethylene vinyl acetate polymers (EVA).
         In other particular embodiments, the base polymer may, for example, be ethylene
vinyl acetate (EVA) based polymers. In other embodiments, the base polymer may, for
example, be ethylene-methyl acrylate. (EMA) based polymers. In other particular
embodiments, the ethylene-alpha olefin copolymer may, for example, be ethylene-butene,
ethylene-hexene, or ethylene-octene copolymers or interpolymers. In other particular
embodiments, the propylene-alpha olefin copolymer may, for example, be a propylene
ethylene or a propylene-ethylene-butene copolymer or interpolymer.
         In certain other embodiments, the base polymer may, for example, be a semi
crystalline polymer and may have a melting point of less than 110 C. In preferred
embodiments, the melting point may be from 25 to 100'C. In more preferred
embodiments, the melting point may be between 40 and 85'C.
         In one particular embodiment, the base polymer is a propylene/alpha-olefin
copolymer, which is characterized as having substantially isotactic propylene sequences.
"Substantially isotactic propylene sequences" means that the sequences have an isotactic
                           13
triad (mm) measured by       C NMR of greater than about 0.85; in the alternative, greater
than about 0.90; in another alternative, greater than about 0.92; and in another alternative,
greater than about 0.93. Isotactic triads are disclosed and are described in, for example,
U.S. Patent No. 5,504,172 and International Publication No. WO 00/01745, which refer
to the isotactic sequence in terms of a triad unit in the copolymer molecular chain
                  13
determined by        C NMR spectra.
                                             -34-

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
              The propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a melt flow rate in the range of
     from 0.1 to 15 g/10 minutes, measured in accordance with ASTM D-1238 (at 2300 C /
     2.16 Kg). All individual values and subranges from 0.1 to 15 g/10 minutes are included
     herein and disclosed herein; for example, the melt flow rate can be from a lower limit
 5   of 0.1 g/10 minutes, 0.2 g/10 minutes, or 0.5 g/10 minutes to an upper limit of 15 g/10
     minutes, 10 g/10 minutes, 8 g/10 minutes, or 5 g/10 minutes. For example, the
     propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a melt flow rate in the range of 0.1 to 10
     g/10 minutes; or in the alternative, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a
     melt flow rate in the range of 0.2 to 10 g/10 minutes.
10            The propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer has a crystallinity in the range of from at
     least 1 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of at least 2 Joules/gram) to 30 percent by
     weight (a heat of fusion of less than 50 Joules/gram). All individual values and
     subranges from 1 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of at least 2 Joules/gram) to 30
     percent by weight (a heat of fusion of less than 50 Joules/gram) are included herein and
15   disclosed herein; for example, the crystallinity can be from a lower limit of 1 percent
     by weight (a heat of fusion of at least 2 Joules/gram), 2.5 percent (a heat of fusion of at
     least 4 Joules/gram), or 3 percent (a heat of fusion of at least 5 Joules/gram) to an upper
     limit of 30 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of less than 50 Joules/gram), 24 percent
     by weight (a heat of fusion of less than 40 Joules/gram), 15 percent by weight (a heat of
20   fusion of less than 24.8 Joules/gram) or 7 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of less
     than 11 Joules/gram). For example, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a
     crystallinity in the range of from at least 1 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of at least
     2 Joules/gram) to 24 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of less than 40 Joules/gram); or
     in the alternative, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a crystallinity in the
25   range of from at least 1 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of at least 2 Joules/gram) to
      15 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of less than 24.8 Joules/gram); or in the
     alternative, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a crystallinity in the range
     of from at least 1 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of at least 2 Joules/gram) to 7
     percent by weight (a heat of fusion of less than 11 Joules/gram); or in the alternative,
30   the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer may have a crystallinity in the range of from at
     least 1 percent by weight (a heat of fusion of at least 2 Joules/gram) to 5 percent by
     weight (a heat of fusion of less than 8.3 Joules/gram). The crystallinity is measured via
                                                - 35 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     DSC method, as described above. The propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer comprises
     units derived from propylene and polymeric units derived from one or more alpha
     olefin comonomers. Exemplary comonomers utilized to manufacture the
     propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer are C 2, and C 4 to Cio alpha-olefins; for example, C 2,
 5   C 4 , C6 and C8 alpha-olefins.
              The propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer comprises from 1 to 40 percent by
     weight of one or more alpha-olefin comonomers. All individual values and subranges
     from 1 to 40 weight percent are included herein and disclosed herein; for example, the
     comonomer content can be from a lower limit of 1 weight percent, 3 weight percent, 4
10   weight percent, 5 weight percent, 7 weight percent, or 9 weight percent to an upper
     limit of 40 weight percent, 35 weight percent, 30 weight percent, 27 weight percent, 20
     weight percent, 15 weight percent, 12 weight percent, or 9 weight percent. For
     example, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer comprises from 1 to 35 percent by
     weight of one or more alpha-olefin comonomers; or in the alternative, the
15   propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer comprises from 1 to 30 percent by weight of one or
     more alpha-olefin comonomers; or in the alternative, the propylene/alpha-olefin
     copolymer comprises from 3 to 27 percent by weight of one or more alpha-olefin
     comonomers; or in the alternative, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer comprises
     from 3 to 20 percent by weight of one or more alpha-olefin comonomers; or in the
20   alternative, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer comprises from 3 to 15 percent by
     weight of one or more alpha-olefin comonomers.
              The propylene/alpha-olefin copolymer has a molecular weight distribution
     (MWD), defined as weight average molecular weight divided by number average
     molecular weight (M,/Ma) of 3.5 or less; in the alternative 3.0 or less; or in another
25   alternative from 1.8 to 3.0.
               Such propylene/alpha-olefin copolymers are further described in details in the
     U.S. Patent Nos. 6,960,635 and 6,525,157, incorporated herein by reference. Such
     propylene/alpha-olefin copolymers are commercially available from The Dow
     Chemical Company, under the tradename VERSIFYTM, or from ExxonMobil Chemical
30   Company, under the tradename VISTAMAXXTM.
     In one embodiment, the propylene/alpha-olefin copolymers are further characterized as
     comprising (A) between 60 and less than 100, preferably between 80 and 99 and more
                                              - 36 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     preferably between 85 and 99, weight percent units derived from propylene, and (B)
     between greater than zero and 40, preferably between 1 and 20, more preferably
     between 4 and 16 and even more preferably between 4 and 15, weight percent units
     derived from at least one of ethylene and/or a C 4-10 -olefin; and containing an average
 5   of at least 0.001, preferably an average of at least 0.005 and more preferably an average
     of at least 0.01, long chain branches/1000 total carbons. The maximum number of long
     chain branches in the propylene interpolymer is not critical to the definition of this
     invention, but typically it does not exceed 3 long chain branches/1000 total carbons.
     The term long chain branch, as used herein, refers to a chain length of at least one (1)
10   carbon more than a short chain branch, and short chain branch, as used herein, refers to
     a chain length of two (2) carbons less than the number of carbons in the comonomer.
     For example, a propylene/1-octene interpolymer has backbones with long chain
     branches of at least seven (7) carbons in length, but these backbones also have short
     chain branches of only six (6) carbons in length. Such propylene/alpha-olefin
15   copolymers are further described in details in the U.S. Provisional Patent Application
     No. 60/988,999 and International Patent Application No. PCT/US08/082599, each of
     which is incorporated herein by reference.
             In certain other embodiments, the base polymer, for example, propylene/alpha
     olefin copolymer, may, for example, be a semi-crystalline polymer and may have a
20   melting point of less than 110 C. In preferred embodiments, the melting point may be
     from 25 to 100 0 C. In more preferred embodiments, the melting point may be between
     40 and 85'C.
             In other selected embodiments, olefin block copolymers, for example, ethylene
     multi-block copolymer, such as those described in the International Publication No.
25   W02005/090427 and U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 11/376,835 may be used as
     the base polymer. Such olefin block copolymer may be an ethylene/a-olefin
     interpolymer:
              (a)     having a M,/M from 1.7 to 3.5, at least one melting point, Tm, in
     degrees Celsius, and a density, d, in grams/cubic centimeter, wherein the numerical
30   values of Tm and d corresponding to the relationship:
             Tm > -2002.9 + 4538.5(d) - 2422.2(d) 2; or
                                              - 37 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
              (b)     having a M,/MR from 1.7 to 3.5, and being characterized by a heat of
     fusion, AH in J/g, and a delta quantity, AT, in degrees Celsius defined as the
     temperature difference between the tallest DSC peak and the tallest CRYSTAF peak,
     wherein the numerical values of AT and AH having the following relationships:
 5           AT > -0.1299(AH) + 62.81 for AH greater than zero and up to 130 J/g,
             AT   > 480 C for AH greater than 130 J/g,
             wherein the CRYSTAF peak being determined using at least 5 percent of the
     cumulative polymer, and if less than 5 percent of the polymer having an identifiable
     CRYSTAF peak, then the CRYSTAF temperature being 30 'C; or
10            (c)     being characterized by an elastic recovery, Re, in percent at 300 percent
     strain and 1 cycle measured with a compression-molded film of the ethylene/a-olefin
     interpolymer, and having a density, d, in grams/cubic centimeter, wherein the
     numerical values of Re and d satisfying the following relationship when ethylene/a
     olefin interpolymer being substantially free of a cross-linked phase:
15           Re >1481-1629(d); or
              (d)     having a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 'C and 130 'C
     when fractionated using TREF, characterized in that the fraction having a molar
     comonomer content of at least 5 percent higher than that of a comparable random
     ethylene interpolymer fraction eluting between the same temperatures, wherein said
20   comparable random ethylene interpolymer having the same comonomer(s) and having a
     melt index, density, and molar comonomer content (based on the whole polymer)
     within 10 percent of that of the ethylene/a-olefin interpolymer; or
              (e)     having a storage modulus at 25 'C, G' (25 C), and a storage modulus at
      100 -C, G' (100 -C), wherein the ratio of G' (25 'C) to G' (100 'C) being in the range
25   of 1:1 to 9:1.
             The ethylene/a-olefin interpolymer may also:
              (a)     have a molecular fraction which elutes between 40 'C and 130 'C when
     fractionated using TREF, characterized in that the fraction having a block index of at
                                               - 38 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     least 0.5 and up to about 1 and a molecular weight distribution, M,/MR, greater than
     about 1.3; or
              (b)     have an average block index greater than zero and up to about 1.0 and a
     molecular weight distribution, M,/Ma, greater than about 1.3.
 5            In certain embodiments, the base polymer may, for example, comprise a polar
     polymer, having a polar group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer. In
     exemplary embodiments, the base polymer may, for example, comprise one or more
     polar polyolefins, having a polar group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer.
     Exemplary polar polyolefins include, but are not limited to, ethylene-acrylic acid
10   (EAA) and ethylene-methacrylic acid copolymers, such as those available under the
     trademarks PRIMACORT M , commercially available from The Dow Chemical Company,
     NUCRELTM , commercially available from E.I. DuPont de Nemours, and ESCORTM
     commercially available from ExxonMobil Chemical Company and described in U.S.
     Patent Nos. 4,599,392, 4,988,781, and 5,938,437, each of which is incorporated herein
15   by reference in its entirety. Other exemplary base polymers include, but are not limited
     to, ethylene ethyl acrylate (EEA) copolymer, ethylene methyl methacrylate (EMMA),
     and ethylene butyl acrylate (EBA).
              In one embodiment, the base polymer may, for example, comprise a polar
     polyolefin selected from the group consisting of ethylene-acrylic acid (EAA)
20   copolymer, ethylene-methacrylic acid copolymer, and combinations thereof, and the
     stabilizing agent may, for example, comprise a polar polyolefin selected from the group
     consisting of ethylene-acrylic acid (EAA) copolymer, ethylene-methacrylic acid
     copolymer, and combinations thereof; provided, however, that base polymer may, for
     example, have a lower acid number, measured according to ASTM-D 974, that the
25   stabilizing agent.
              In certain embodiments, the base polymer may, for example, comprise a
     polyester resin.     Polyester resin refers to thermoplastic resins that may include
     polymers containing at least one ester bond. For example, polyester polyols may be
     prepared via a conventional esterification process using a molar excess of an aliphatic
30   diol or glycol with relation to an alkanedioic acid. Illustrative of the glycols that can be
                                              - 39 -

employed to prepare the polyesters are ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol, propylene
glycol, dipropylene glycol, 1,3-propanediol, 1,4-butanediol and other butanediols, 1,5
pentanediol and other pentane diols, hexanediols, decanediols, and dodecanediols. In
some embodiments, the aliphatic glycol may contain from 2 to 8 carbon atoms.
Illustrative of the dioic acids that may be used to prepare the polyesters are maleic acid,
malonic acid, succinic acid, glutaric acid, adipic acid, 2-methyl-1,6-hexanoic acid,
pimelic acid, suberic acid, and dodecanedioic acids. In some embodiments, the
alkanedioic acids may contain from 4 to 12 carbon atoms. Illustrative of the polyester
polyols are poly(hexanediol adipate), poly(butylene glycol adipate), poly(ethylene glycol
adipate), poly(diethylene glycol adipate), poly(hexanediol oxalate), and poly(ethylene
glycol sebecate). Other embodiments of the present invention use polyester resins
containing aliphatic diols such as UNOXOL (a mixture of cis and trans 1,3- and 1,4
cyclohexanedimethanol) available from The Dow Chemical Company (Midland, MI).
         In certain embodiments, the base polymer may, for example, comprise a
thermoset material comprising an epoxy resin, as described hereinabove.
         In certain embodiments, the base polymer comprises a thermoplastic polyurethane
polymer. Such thermoplastic polyurethane polymers are disclosed, and further described,
for example, in the International Publication No. 2008/057878, incorporated herein by
reference to the extent that it describes a thermoplastic polyurethane polymer.
         Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the above list is a non
comprehensive listing of exemplary base polymers. It will be appreciated that the
scope of the present invention is restricted by the claims only.
         (b) Stabilizing Agent
         The polymeric based dispersion may further comprise at least one or more
stabilizing agents, also referred to herein as dispersion or dispersing agents, to promote
the formation of a stable polymeric based dispersion. The stabilizing agent may
preferably be an external stabilizing agent. The polymeric based dispersion of the instant
invention comprises I to 50 percent by weight of one or more stabilizing agents, based on
the total weight of the solid content of the dispersion. All individual values
                                             - 40 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                             PCT/US2011/031765
     and subranges from 1 to 45 weight percent are included herein and disclosed herein; for
     example, the weight percent can be from a lower limit of 1, 3, 5, 10 weight percent to
     an upper limit of 15, 25, 35 , 45, or 50 weight percent. For example, the dispersion
     may comprise from 1 to 25; or in the alternative from 1 to 35; or in the alternative from
 5    1 to 40; or in the alternative from 1 to 45, percent by weight of one or more stabilizing
     agents, based on the total weight of the solid content of the dispersion. In selected
     embodiments, the stabilizing agent may be a surfactant, a polymer, or mixtures thereof.
     In certain embodiments, the stabilizing agent can be a polar polymer, having a polar
     group as either a comonomer or grafted monomer. In exemplary embodiments, the
10   stabilizing agent comprises one or more polar polyolefins, having a polar group as
     either a comonomer or grafted monomer. Exemplary polymeric stabilizing agents
     include, but are not limited to, ethylene-acrylic acid (EAA) and ethylene-methacrylic
     acid copolymers, such as those available under the trademarks PRIMACORTM
     commercially available from The Dow Chemical Company, NUCRELT , commercially
15   available from E.I. DuPont de Nemours, and ESCORTM, commercially available from
     ExxonMobil Chemical Company and described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,599,392,
     4,988,781, and 5,938,437, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its
     entirety. Other exemplary polymeric stabilizing agents include, but are not limited to,
     ethylene ethyl acrylate (EEA) copolymer, ethylene methyl methacrylate (EMMA), and
20   ethylene butyl acrylate (EBA). Other ethylene-carboxylic acid copolymer may also be
     used. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that a number of other useful
     polymers may also be used.
              Other stabilizing agents that may be used include, but are not limited to, long
     chain fatty acids, fatty acid salts, or fatty acid alkyl esters having from 12 to 60 carbon
25   atoms. In other embodiments, the long chain fatty acid or fatty acid salt may have from
      12 to 40 carbon atoms.
              The stabilizing agent may be partially or fully neutralized with a neutralizing
     agent. In certain embodiments, neutralization of the stabilizing agent, such as a long
     chain fatty acid or EAA, may be from 25 to 200 percent on a molar basis; or in the
30   alternative, it may be from 50 to 110 percent on a molar basis. For example, for EAA,
     the neutralizing agent may be a base, such as ammonium hydroxide or potassium
                                                  - 41 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     hydroxide, for example. Other neutralizing agents can include lithium hydroxide or
     sodium hydroxide, for example. In another alternative, the neutralizing agent may, for
     example, be a carbonate. In another alternative, the neutralizing agent may, for
     example, be any amine such as monoethanolamine, or 2-amino-2-methyl- 1-propanol
 5   (AMP). Amines useful in embodiments disclosed herein may include
     monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine, and TRIS AMINO (each
     available from Angus), NEUTROL TE (available from BASF), as well as
     triisopropanolamine, diisopropanolamine, and N,N-dimethylethanolamine (each
     available from The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, MI). Other useful amines may
10   include ammonia, monomethylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine,
     monoethylamine, diethylamine, triethylamine, mono-n-propylamine, dimethyl-n
     propylamine, N-methanol amine, N-aminoethylethanolamine, N-methyldiethanolamine,
     monoisopropanolamine, N,N-dimethyl propanolamine, 2-amino-2-methyl- 1-propanol,
     tris(hydroxymethyl)-aminomethane, N,N,N'N'-tetrakis(2-hydroxylpropyl)
15   ethylenediamine, 1.2-diaminopropane. In some embodiments, mixtures of amines or
     mixtures of amines and surfactants may be used. Those having ordinary skill in the art
     will appreciate that the selection of an appropriate neutralizing agent depends on the
     specific composition formulated, and that such a choice is within the knowledge of
     those of ordinary skill in the art.
20           Additional stabilizing agents that may be useful in the practice of the present
     invention include, but are not limited to, cationic surfactants, anionic surfactants, or
     non-ionic surfactants. Examples of anionic surfactants include, but are not limited to,
     sulfonates, carboxylates, and phosphates. Examples of cationic surfactants include, but
     are not limited to, quaternary amines. Examples of non-ionic surfactants include, but
25   are not limited to, block copolymers containing ethylene oxide and silicone surfactants.
     Stabilizing agents useful in the practice of the present invention can be either external
     surfactants or internal surfactants. External surfactants are surfactants that do not
     become chemically reacted into the base polymer during dispersion preparation.
     Examples of external surfactants useful herein include, but are not limited to, salts of
30   dodecyl benzene sulfonic acid and lauryl sulfonic acid salt. Internal surfactants are
     surfactants that do become chemically reacted into the base polymer during dispersion
     preparation. An example of an internal surfactant useful herein includes 2,2-dimethylol
                                               - 42 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     propionic acid and its salts. Additional surfactants that may be useful in the practice of
     the present invention include cationic surfactants, anionic surfactants, non-ionic
     surfactants, or combinations thereof. Various commercially available surfactants may
     be used in embodiments disclosed herein, including: OP-100 (a sodium stearate), OPK
 5    1000 (a potassium stearate), and OPK-181 (a potassium oleate), each available from
     RTD Hallstar; UNICID 350, available from Baker Petrolite; DISPONIL FES 77-IS and
     DISPONIL TA-430, each available from Cognis; RHODAPEX CO-436,
     SOPROPHOR 4D384, 3D-33, and 796/P, RHODACAL BX-78 and LDS-22,
     RHODAFAC RE-6 10, and RM-7 10, and SUPRAGIL MNS/90, each available from
10   Rhodia; and TRITON QS-15, TRITON W-30, DOWFAX 2A1, DOWFAX 3B2,
     DOWFAX 8390, DOWFAX C6L, TRITON X-200, TRITON XN-45S, TRITON H-55,
     TRITON GR-5M, TRITON BG-10, and TRITON CG-1 10, each available from The
     Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Michigan.
              (c) Fluid Medium
15           The polymeric based dispersion further comprises a fluid medium. The fluid
     medium may be any medium; for example, the fluid medium may be water. The
     polymeric based dispersion of the instant invention comprises 25 to 90 percent by
     weight of fluid medium, based on the total weight of the dispersion. In particular
     embodiments, the water content may be in the range of from 35 to 75, or in the
20   alternative from 35 to 70, or in the alternative from 45 to 60 percent by weight, based
     on the total weight of the dispersion. Water content of the polymeric based dispersion
     may preferably be controlled so that the solids content (base polymer plus stabilizing
     agent) is between 1 percent to 74 percent by weight. In particular embodiments, the
     solids range may be between 10 percent to 70 percent by weight. In other particular
25   embodiments, the solids range is between 20 percent to 65 percent by weight. In
     certain other embodiments, the solids range is between 25 percent to 55 percent by
     weight.
              (d) Additional components
             The polymeric based dispersion may further comprise one or more binder
30   compositions such as acrylic latex, vinyl acrylic latex, styrene acrylic latex, vinyl
     acetate ethylene latex, and combinations thereof; optionally one or more fillers;
                                               - 43 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     optionally one or more additives; optionally one or more pigments, for example,
     titanium dioxide, mica, calcium carbonate, silica, zinc oxide, milled glass, aluminum
     trihydrate, talc, antimony trioxide, fly ash, and clay; optionally one or more co
     solvents, for example, glycols, glycol ether, 2,2,4-trimethyl- 1,3-pentanediol
 5   monoisobutyrate, alcohols, mineral spirits, and benzoate esters; optionally one or more
     dispersants, for example, aminoalcohols, and polycarboxylates; optionally one or more
     surfactants; optionally one or more defoamers; optionally one or more preservatives,
     for example, biocides, mildewcides, fungicides, algaecides, and combinations thereof;
     optionally one or more thickeners, for example, cellulosic based thickeners such as
10   hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydrophobically modified alkali soluble emulsions (HASE
     thickeners such as UCAR POLYPHOBE TR- 116) and hydroobically modified
     ethoxylated urethane thickeners (HEUR); or optionally one or more additional
     neutralizing agents, for example, hydroxides, amines, ammonia, and carbonates.
             (e) Additional Colorant Components
15           The polymeric based dispersion may further comprise a colorant as part of the
     polyolefin dispersion. A variety of colors may be used. Examples include colors such
     as yellow, magenta, and cyan. As a black coloring agent, carbon black, and a coloring
     agent toned to black using the yellow/magenta/cyan coloring agents shown below may
     be used. Colorants, as used herein, include dyes, pigments, and pre-dispersions, among
20   others. These colorants may be used singly, in a mixture, or as a solid solution. In
     various embodiments, pigments may be provided in the form of raw pigments, treated
     pigments, pre-milled pigments, pigment powders, pigment presscakes, pigment
     masterbatches, recycled pigment, and solid or liquid pigment pre-dispersions. As used
     herein, a raw pigment is a pigment particle that has had no wet treatments applied to its
25   surface, such as to deposit various coatings on the surface. Raw pigment and treated
     pigment are further discussed in PCT Publication No. WO 2005/095277 and U.S.
     Patent Application Publication No. 20060078485, the relevant portions of which are
     incorporated herein by reference. In contrast, a treated pigment may have undergone
     wet treatment, such as to provide metal oxide coatings on the particle surfaces.
30   Examples of metal oxide coatings include alumina, silica, and zirconia. Recycled
                                               -   44  -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     pigment may also be used as the starting pigment particles, where recycled pigment is
     pigment after wet treatment of insufficient quality to be sold as coated pigment.
               Exemplary colorant particles include, but are not limited to, pigments such as
     yellow coloring agent, compounds typified by a condensed azo compound, an
 5   isoindolynone compound, an anthraquinone compound, an azometal complex methine
     compound, and an allylamide compound as pigments may be used. As a magenta
     coloring agent, a condensed azo compound, a diketopyrrolopyrrole compound,
     anthraquinone, a quinacridone compound, a base dye lake compound, a naphthol
     compound, a benzimidazolone compound, a thioindigo compound, and a perylene
10   compound may be used. As a cyan coloring agent, a copper phthalocyanine compound
     and its derivative, an anthraquinone compound, a base dye lake compound, and the like
     may be used.
             (f) Forming the Polymeric Based Dispersion
             The polymeric based dispersion can be formed by any number of methods
15   recognized by those having skill in the art. In one embodiment, one or more base
     polymers, one or more stabilizing agents are melt-kneaded in an extruder along with
     water and a neutralizing agent, such as ammonia, potassium hydroxide, or a
     combination of the two to form a polymeric based dispersion. In another embodiment,
     one or more base polymers and optionally one or more fillers are compounded, and
20   then the base polymer/filler compound is melt-kneaded in an extruder in the presence
     of an optional stabilizing agent, water, and one or more neutralizing agents thereby
     forming a polymeric based dispersion. In some embodiments, the dispersion is first
     diluted to contain 1 to 3 percent by weight water and then, subsequently, further diluted
     to comprise greater than about 25 percent by weight water.
25           Any melt-kneading means known in the art may be used. In some
     embodiments, a kneader, a BANBURY* mixer, single-screw extruder, or a multi-screw
     extruder, for example, a twin screw extruder, is used. A process for producing the
     dispersions in accordance with the present invention is not particularly limited. For
     example, an extruder, in certain embodiments, for example, a twin screw extruder, is
30   coupled to a back pressure regulator, melt pump, or gear pump. Exemplary
     embodiments also provide a base reservoir and an initial water reservoir, each of which
                                               - 45 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     includes a pump. Desired amounts of base and initial water are provided from the base
     reservoir and the initial water reservoir, respectively. Any suitable pump may be used,
     but in some embodiments, for example, a pump that provides a flow of about 150
     cc/min at a pressure of 240 bar is used to provide the base and the initial water to the
 5   extruder. In other embodiments, a liquid injection pump provides a flow of 300 cc/min
     at 200 bar or 600 cc/min at 133 bar. In some embodiments, the base and initial water
     are preheated in a preheater.
              One or more base polymers, in the form of pellets, powder, or flakes, are fed
     from the feeder to an inlet of the extruder where the resin is melted or compounded.
10   Optionally one or more fillers may be fed simultaneously with one or more base
     polymers into the extruder via the feeder; or in the alternative, one or more fillers may
     be compounded into one or more base polymers, and then fed into the extruder via the
     feeder. In the alternative, additional one or more fillers may further be metered via an
     inlet prior to the emulsification zone into the molten compound comprising one or more
15   base polymers and optionally one or more fillers. In some embodiments, the dispersing
     agent is added to one or more base polymers through and along with the resin and in
     other embodiments, the dispersing agent is provided separately to the twin screw
     extruder. The resin melt is then delivered from the mix and convey zone to an
     emulsification zone of the extruder where the initial amount of water and base from the
20   water and base reservoirs are added through an inlet. In some embodiments, dispersing
     agent may be added additionally or exclusively to the water stream. In some
     embodiments, further dilution water may be added via water inlet from water reservoir
     in a dilution and cooling zone of the extruder. Typically, the dispersion is diluted to at
     least 30 weight percent water in the cooling zone. In addition, the diluted mixture may
25   be diluted any number of times until the desired dilution level is achieved. In some
     embodiments, water is not added into the twin screw extruder but rather to a stream
     containing the resin melt after the melt has exited from the extruder. In this manner,
     steam pressure build-up in the extruder is eliminated and the dispersion is formed in a
     secondary mixing device such as a rotor stator mixer.
30
                                                - 46 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     Emulsion Polymer Latex
              The second emulsion may be an emulsion polymer latex selected from the
     group consisting of acrylic latex, vinyl acetate acrylic latex, styrene acrylic latex, vinyl
     acetate ethylene latex, and combinations thereof. Such emulsion polymer latex may
 5   comprise at least one synthetic latex. A synthetic latex is generally known as an
     aqueous dispersion of polymer particles prepared by emulsion polymerization of one or
     more monomers. The latex can have a monomodal or polymodal, for example,
     bimodal, particle size distribution. Mixtures or blends of latexes can be employed.
              In one embodiment of the invention, the polymer of the latex is a copolymer,
10   that is, a polymer formed from at least 2 monomers. The latex may contain a single
     copolymer or more than one copolymer. Advantageously, the polymer of the latex has
     a glass transition temperature (Tg) of from -50'C to 100'C.
              The copolymers that are useful alone, as opposed to those useful only in a
     blend, in the practice of this invention desirably have a Tg of no lower than about
15    lOC, preferably at least about 0 0 C. Desirably, the Tg of the copolymer is no higher
     than about 50'C, preferably up to about 40'C. The generally preferred range is from
     00 C to 40'C. The Tg of the copolymer of the composition of this invention is
     determined by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC).
              While a wide range of monomeric compositions are useful for the latex
20   component of major component of this invention, in a particular embodiment it is
     preferred that the copolymer is uncrosslinked by virtue of there being no crosslinking
     monomers present in the group of ethylenically unsaturated monomers present in the
     polymerization mixture from which it is prepared. That is, it is desirable in this
     embodiment that the copolymer be produced by polymerization in the absence of
25   crosslinking monomers or some other crosslinking agent.
              In an alternative embodiment, it is desirable for the copolymer to be lightly
     crosslinked. This may be accomplished by the inclusion in the polymerization mixture
     from which the copolymer is prepared of a monomer that is multifunctional and of
     known utility as a crosslinker, such as, for example, divinyl benzene or allyl
30   (meth)acrylate. In this particular embodiment, it is preferred that the content of
     crosslinking monomers in the copolymer is no more than about 2 weight percent,
     preferably from 0.001 to 2 weight percent, more preferably from 0.01 to 1.5 weight
                                               -  47   -

   WO 2012/138348                                                        PCT/US2011/031765
     percent, still more preferably from 0.1 to 1 weight percent, where the weight
     percentages are based on the total weight of monomers in the polymerization mixture.
             A wide variety of monomers may be used to prepare copolymers suitable for
     use in the major component of this invention. (Meth)acrylate copolymers comprising
 5   primarily (meth)acrylate monomers are one desirable type of copolymer.
             For the purposes of the emulsion polymer latex of the present invention, the
     term "(meth)" indicates that the methyl substituted compound is included in the class of
     compounds modified by that term. For example, the term (meth)acrylic acid represents
     acrylic acid and methacrylic acid.
10           With reference the emulsion polymer latex of the present invention, as used
     herein the term "(meth)acrylate copolymer" means a copolymer that contains in
     polymerized form at least 80 weight percent (meth)acrylate monomers and
     (meth)acrylic acid monomers. In a preferred embodiment, the copolymer contains in
     polymerized form at least 90 weight percent (meth)acrylate monomers and
15   (meth)acrylic acid monomers, while even more preferred is the embodiment wherein
     the copolymer contains in polymerized form at least 95 weight percent (meth)acrylate
     monomers and (meth)acrylic acid monomers.
             In a highly preferred embodiment, the copolymer is a pure (meth)acrylate, or a
     pure (meth)acrylate except for the inclusion of a non-(meth)acrylate seed therein.
20   These copolymers desirably consist essentially of (meth)acrylate monomers, or of
     (meth)acrylate monomers and (meth)acrylic acid monomers.
             With reference the emulsion polymer latex, as used herein the term
     "(meth)acrylate monomers" is meant to include those monomers that are used to
     prepare the (meth)acrylate copolymers that are suitable for use in the compositions of
25   this invention. Included therein are conventionally known acrylates, such as, for
     example, alkyl esters of acrylic acid, represented by the formula CH 2 =CHCOOR, and
     methacrylic acid, represented by the formula CH 2 = CCH 3COOR, where R is a
     hydrocarbyl or a substituted hydrocarbyl group containing from 1 to 16 carbon atoms.
     The term "(meth)acrylic acid monomers" is meant to include acrylic acid, methacrylic
30   acid and substituted derivatives thereof.
                                               - 48 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
             With reference the emulsion polymer latex, as used herein the term
     "(meth)acrylate monomers" as used herein is meant also to include the monovinyl
     acrylate and methacrylate monomers. The (meth)acrylates can include esters, amides
     and substituted derivatives thereof. Generally, the preferred (meth)acrylates are C1-Cs
 5   alkyl acrylates and methacrylates.
             Examples of suitable (meth)acrylates include methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate,
     butyl acrylate, hexyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, octyl acrylate and isooctyl
     acrylate, n-decyl acrylate, isodecyl acrylate, tert-butyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate,
     butyl methacrylate, hexyl methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, isopropyl methacrylate
10   as well as 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate and acrylamide. The preferred (meth)acrylates are
     methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, octyl acrylate,
     isooctyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate and butyl methacrylate. Other suitable
     monomers include lower alkyl acrylates and methacrylates including acrylic and
     methacrylic ester monomers: methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, n-butyl acrylate, t-butyl
15   acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, decyl acrylate, isobomyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate,
     ethyl methacrylate, n-propyl methacrylate, isopropyl methacrylate, n-butyl
     methacrylate, isobutyl methacrylate, sec-butyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate,
     isodecyl methacrylate, isobornyl methacrylate, t-butylaminoethyl methacrylate, stearyl
     methacrylate, glycidyl methacrylate, dicyclopentenyl methacrylate, phenyl
20   methacrylate.
             In one embodiment, the major component comprises one or more branched
     vinyl esters as comonomers incorporated into (meth)acrylate polymers. Such
     (meth)acrylate polymers are commercially available under the tradename NEOCAR
     820.
25           Monomers suitable for use as components in polymers are often classified as
     "hard" or "soft" monomers, depending upon the glass transition temperature (Tg) of the
     homopolymer prepared from the monomer. As used herein, a hard monomer is
     characterized as having a Tg greater than 40'C for its homopolymer, while a soft
     monomer is characterized as having a Tg of 40'C or less for its homopolymer. A
30   preferred hard (meth)acrylate monomer is methyl methacrylate.
                                              - 49 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
              The soft non-functional (meth)acrylate monomers have the formula:
                            Ri O
                            I     ||
                      CH2 =C-C-OR 2
              wherein R1 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen and methyl, and
     R 2 is an alkyl group, preferably having up to about 15 carbon atoms. As used herein,
 5   the term "alkyl" means cyclic and acyclic saturated hydrocarbon groups that can be
     either branched or unbranched. Exemplary soft, non-functional acrylic monomers
     include, but are not limited to, butyl acrylate, isobutyl acrylate, ethylhexyl acrylate,
     isodecyl methacrylate, lauryl methacrylate, tridecylmethacrylate. Butyl acrylate is a
     preferred soft, non-functional monomer.
10            Suitable non-ester monomers that are sometimes classified with the
     (meth)acrylates are the nitriles. A preferred nitrile monomer is acrylonitrile.
              While the more highly preferred embodiment of the (meth)acrylate copolymer
     of the instant invention may contain up to about 5 weight percent of other comonomers
     that are not (meth)acrylate monomers, other embodiments may contain as other
15   comonomers as much as 10 weight percent or even as much as 20 weight percent of
     monomers that are not (meth)acrylate monomers. Other monomers that are useful in
     these copolymers of the instant invention include vinyl aromatic monomers, aliphatic
     conjugated diene monomers, monoethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomers,
     vinyl acetate monomer, vinylidene halide monomer and vinyl halide monomer. In
20   some other desirable copolymers suitable for use in this invention, the monomers of the
     polymerization mixture include from 1 to 40 weight percent of one or more
     (meth)acrylate monomers.
              As used in the specification and claims, "vinyl aromatic monomers" are defined
     as any organic compound containing at least one aromatic ring and at least one
25   aliphatic-containing moiety having vinyl unsaturation. Illustrative vinyl aromatic
     monomers include, but are not limited to, styrene, p-methyl styrene, methyl styrene,
     o,p-dimethyl styrene, o,p-diethyl styrene, p-chlorostyrene, isopropyl styrene, t-butyl
     styrene, o-methyl-p-isopropyl styrene, o,p-dichlorostyrene, and mixtures thereof. The
     preferred vinyl aromatic monomers are styrene and vinyltoluene; and due to its
                                               - 50 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     commercial availability and low cost, styrene is the more preferred vinyl aromatic
     monomer.
             The term "conjugated diene monomer," as used herein, is meant to include
     compounds such as 1,3-butadiene, isoprene, 1,3-pentadiene, 2-ethyl-1,3-butadiene, and
 5   4-methyl-1,3-pentadiene, 2-methyl-1,3-butadiene, piperylene (1,3-pentadiene), and
     other hydrocarbon analogs of 1,3-butadiene. The preferred alkadiene monomer is 1,3
     butadiene. Other monomers inclusive as aliphatic conjugated dienes are halogenated
     compounds, such as, for example, 2-chloro- 1,3-butadiene.
             The monomers of the vinyl group, such as, for example, "vinylidene halides"
10   and "vinyl halides", are suitable for inclusion in the copolymer of this invention, and
     include, for example, vinylidene chloride and vinyl chloride, which are highly
     preferred. Vinylidene bromides and vinyl bromide can also be employed. Another
     vinyl monomer within the vinyl group is vinyl acetate.
             Suitable alpha, beta-ethylenically unsaturated aliphatic carboxylic acid
15   monomers are monoethylenically unsaturated monocarboxylic, dicarboxylic and
     tricarboxylic acids having the ethylenic unsaturation alpha-beta to at least one of the
     carboxyl groups and similar monomers having a higher number of carboxyl groups. It
     is understood that the carboxyl groups may be present in the acid or salt form (-COOM
     in which M represents a cation such as ammonium, hydrogen or a metal such as, for
20   example, sodium or potassium) and are readily interconvertible by well known simple
     procedures.
             Specific examples of the alpha, beta-ethylenically unsaturated aliphatic
     carboxylic acids are acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, fumaric acid, itaconic acid, maleic
     acid, aconitic acid, various alpha-substituted acrylic acids such as alpha-ethacrylic acid,
25   alpha-propyl acrylic acid and alpha-butyl acrylic acid. Highly preferred acid monomers
     are acrylic acid and methacrylic acid.
             With regard to the amount of acid monomer that is desirable or preferred in the
     copolymer as discussed above, it appears that there is a trade-off in terms of the acid
     strength of the monomer as indicated by pKa in aqueous solution and the amount of the
30   acid monomer desirably included in the copolymer. While a higher acid content can be
     tolerated and may be desirable for relatively weak acid monomers, for those acid
                                               - 51 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     monomers that are relatively stronger acid monomers, the acid content of the
     copolymer is desirably less.
             In preferred embodiments, the content of alpha, beta-ethylenically unsaturated
     aliphatic carboxylic acid monomers in the copolymer is desirably in the range from 0 to
 5   4 weight percent, more preferably from 0.2 to 3 weight percent, still more preferably
     from 0.3 to 2 weight percent.
             Within the scope of this invention are other embodiments wherein the
     copolymer utilized would not be classified as a (meth)acrylate copolymer. Other
     copolymer types that can be utilized include, for example, combinations of vinyl
10   aromatic monomers with (meth)acrylate monomers, such as, for example, the styrene
     acrylates, and of vinyl aromatic monomers with conjugated diene monomers, such as,
     for example, styrene butadiene copolymers, and vinyl ester compounds with
     (meth)acrylate monomers, such as, for example, (meth)acrylate branched vinyl ester
     and vinyl acetate branched vinyl ester copolymers. Other copolymer types that can be
15   utilized include, for example, vinyl acetate ethylene. These copolymers may be non
     carboxylated or carboxylated.
             The copolymer desirably is made, for example, by charging the monomeric
     ingredients, water, and a surfactant (when employed) into a reaction vessel, purging the
     reaction vessel with an inert gas, such as, for example, nitrogen, to remove essentially
20   all the oxygen from the reactor vessel, and heating the reactor vessel to the reaction
     temperature, usually from 800 to 100'C. When the reactor vessel reaches the desired
     reaction temperature, an initiator and remaining monomeric ingredients are then added
     to the reaction vessel over time, and the reaction is continued for 2 to 4 hours. After the
     reaction is completed, the reactor vessel is cooled. This synthesis yields an aqueous
25   copolymeric composition comprising the copolymer in water. In some instances, the
     composition has the appearance of a milky liquid, while in other instances it looks like
     a clear solution.
             The process of production of the copolymer may include the use of a seed,
     which may be a (meth)acrylate, polystyrene or any other seed useful to control the
30   ultimate particle size of the copolymer produced, or otherwise useful in the production
     thereof. As is well known in the art, the regulation of initial seed can be used to control
                                              - 52 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                        PCT/US2011/031765
     the ultimate range of particle sizes of the copolymer produced. Useful copolymer
     particle sizes are in the range of from 700 to 10,000 angstroms.
             Anionic, nonionic, and amphoteric surface active compounds, that is,
     surfactants, can be employed in the copolymer synthesis process. However, in some
 5   instances, no surfactant is required. Exemplary anionic, nonionic, and amphoteric
     surfactants are SIPONATE A246L brand surfactant available from Rhone-Poulenc,
     polyoxyethylene alkyl phenol surfactants, and N,N-bis-carboxyethyl lauramine,
     respectively. Another useful surfactant is DOWFAX 2EP, the sodium salt of
     dodecylated sulfonated phenyl ether, which is available from The Dow Chemical
10   Company, Midland, Mich. 48640, U.S.A.
     Forming the Inventive Coating Compositions
             The method for producing the inventive coating composition comprises the
     steps of: (1) providing one or more molten or liquid alkyds, wherein each said one or
     more molten or liquid alkyds has an acid number of less than 20 and a molecular
15   weight (Me) in the range of greater than 1000 Dalton; (2) providing one or more
     surfactants; (3) providing water; (4) optionally providing one or more neutralizing
     agents; (5) continuously emulsifying said one or more molten or liquid alkyds in the
     water in the presence of said one or more surfactants and optionally said one or more
     neutralizing agents; (6) thereby producing a high internal phase emulsion; (7) providing
20   additional water; (8) contacting said high internal phase emulsion with said additional
     water; (9) thereby producing said aqueous alkyd dispersion, wherein said alkyd
     dispersion comprises from 40 to 70 percent by weight of said one or more alkyds, from
     less than 10 percent by weight of said one or more surfactants, and wherein said
     dispersion has an average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 pm; (10)
25   providing one or more second dispersions and/or second emulsions; (11) contacting
     said alkyd dispersion and one or more second dispersion and or second emulsions; and
     (12) thereby forming the coating composition.
             The alkyd dispersion and the second dispersion and/or emulsion may be
     admixed to form the coating composition of the present invention via a continues
30   process or a batch process. Such admixing may be achieved via, for example, stirring,
     Oaks mixer, IKEA mixer, or the like.
                                               -  53 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                            PCT/US2011/031765
     End-use Applications of the Inventive Coating Compositions
             The coating composition of the present invention may be used, for example, in
     different coating applications such as industrial coating applications, architectural
     coating applications, automotive coating applications, outdoor furniture coating
 5   applications.
             The coated articles or structures according to the present invention comprise a
     coating layer associated with one or more surfaces of an article or a structure, wherein
     said coating layer is derived from the coating composition according to the present
     invention.
10           The coating compositions according to the present invention are film forming
     compositions. The films derived from the coating composition may have any
     thickness; for example, such films may have a thickness in the range of from 0.01 Pm
     to 1mm; or in the alternative, from 1 pm to 500 km; or in the alternative, from 1 pm to
      100 km; or in the alternative, from 1 to 50 km; or in the alternative, from 1 Pm to 25
15   km; or in the alternative, from 1 to 10 km.
             The method for coating articles or structures according to the present invention
     comprises the steps of (1) selecting the inventive coating composition (2) applying the
     coating composition to one or more surfaces of an article or a structure; (3) removing a
     portion of water from the coating composition associated with one or more surfaces of
20   the article or structure; and (4) thereby coating the article or structure.
             The coating composition may be applied to one or more surfaces of an article or
     a structure via any method. Such methods include, but are not limited to, spraying,
     dipping, rolling, and any other conventional technique generally known to those skilled
     in the art. The coating composition may be applied to one or more surfaces of an
25   article or structure at a temperature in the range of, for example, greater than about 5
     'C. Such structures include, but are not limited to, commercial building, residential
     buildings, and warehouses. The coating composition may be used as coatings for
     interior applications, exterior applications, or combinations thereof. The surface of
     such structures to be coated with the coating composition may comprise concrete,
30   wood, metal, plastic, glass, drywall, or the like.
                                                -  54 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
              In one embodiment, the coating layer according to the present invention
     comprises a film having a pendulum hardness in the range of from 50 to 150 seconds,
     wherein the film has a thickness of at least 40 km.
              In an alternative embodiment, the coating layer according to the present
 5   invention comprises a film having a modulus hardness in the range of from (2 * 107) to
     (1 * 10") dyn/cm 2.
              In an alternative embodiment, the coating layer according to the present
     invention comprises a film having a direct impact resistance in the range of from 65 to
      160 inch pounds.
10            In an alternative embodiment, the coating layer according to the present
     invention comprises a film having a revers impact resistance in the range of from 20 to
      160 inch pounds.
              In an alternative embodiment, the coating layer according to the present
     invention comprises a film having a gloss loss after QUV at 600 in the range of from
15   less than 30; for example, less than 20, less than 15, less than 10, less than 5, less than
     2, or less than 1.
              In an alternative embodiment the coating layer according to the present
     invention comprises a film having a gloss loss after QUV at 20' in the range of from
     less than 50; for example, less than 40, less than 30, less than 20, or less than 10.
20            In an alternative embodiment, the coating layer according to the present
     invention comprises a film having a AE color change after QUV in the range of from
     less than 8; for example, less than 5, less than 4, or less than 3.
                                              Examples
25            The following examples illustrate the present invention but are not intended to
     limit the scope of the invention.
     Alkyd Resin Synthesis
              The synthesis protocol used in the preparation of alkyd resins was a two-stage
     alcoholysis-polyesterification method.
                                               -   55 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                            PCT/US2011/031765
          (a) First Stage
          In the first stage typical large scale alcoholysis was carried out with the product
     being divided up into four aliquots for the next step. To a 5 L three-neck RB flask was
     added sunflower oil. A glass stir rod and paddle were placed in the middle joint of the
 5   flask. The flask was attached to a lattice with overhead stirring, and an oil bath at room
     temperature was raised to submerge the flask. The setpoint on the bath was 220 'C and
     heating and stirring were started. To the stirred sunflower oil (alkyd 1) or coconut oil
     (alkyd 2), trimethylolpropane (TMP), pentaerythritol (PE) and dibutyltin oxide (1200
     ppm on charge) were added, as reported in Table 1. Once all reactants were added a
10   packed condenser with a set point of 95 0 C was attached to one of the side joints and
     topped with a hosebarb adaptor that was connected to a bubbler. To the other side
     neck, a hosebarb adaptor was attached and connected to a nitrogen inlet. A slow
     nitrogen sweep was placed on the system and observed in the bubbler. The reaction
     mixture was allowed to heat and mix for 16 hours, typically overnight to ensure
15   monoglyceride formation, verified by solubility in 4 parts methanol. The next day, the
     flask was removed from the oil bath and 900 g aliquots were transferred to individual
     2L three-neck RB flasks. The flasks were allowed to cool under a pad of N 2 until ready
     to use.
20                                                Table 1
                     Oil Type          Oil      TMP       PE        PIA         PAN      Benzoic
                                                                                           Acid
     Alkyd I         Sunflower       46.298       0     23.785     11.967      17.951        0
                         Oil
     Alkyd 2        Coconut Oil      32.552    28.646      0          0        32.552      6.250
          (b) Second Stage
          The 2L roundbottom flask (RBF) containing the alcoholysis mixture was equipped
25   with a glass stir shaft and paddle. The flask was attached to lattice with overhead
     stirring. An oil bath at room temperature was raised to submerge the flask. The set
     point on the bath was 220 'C and heating and stirring were started. To the flask, listed
     components in Table 1 for Alkyd 1 and Alkyd 2, e.g.purified isophthalic acid (PIA),
                                                  - 56 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     phthalic anhydride (PAN), benzoic acid and xylenes (2% on total charge), were added.
     Then, a Dean-Stark trap was connected to one of the side joints and topped with a
     Friedrichs condenser connected to a bubbler. To the other side joint, a hosebarb adapter
     was attached that was connected to the nitrogen inlet. A nitrogen sweep was placed on
 5   the system. The system was allowed to heat (-220 'C) and the water formed was
     distilled out as an azeotrope with xylenes. After 3 hours, 1-2 g of the reaction mixture
     was collected and titrated to determine the acid value (AV). The reaction was allowed
     to progress until the desired AV was reached, in this case AV 8-10, then the reaction
     contents were poured into a glass jar and allowed to cool to room temperature under a
10   pad of nitrogen.
     Alkyd Dispersion 1
              Medium oil alkyd resin (Alkyd 1), acid value 7.5 mg of KOH per g of resin,
     was heated to 95 'C (approximately for 3 to 4 hours to form a molten state) and fed into
     a rotor-stator mixer at 50 g/min. 28 percent (weight/weight) ammonium hydroxide
15   solution was fed at 0.365 g/min and blended with additional water pumped at a rate of
     22.0 g/min while additional surfactant E-sperse 100 (60 percent active), (commercially
     available from Ethox Chemical), was pumped at a rate of 3.33 mL/min and injected
     into the mixer to create the high internal phase emulsion. The mixer speed was set at
     approximately 700 rpm. The average particle size diameter of the solid content of the
20   emulsion was 0.17 microns. The high internal phase emulsion had a solids content of
     69 weight percent. The high internal phase emulsion was later diluted by adding water
     at 23 g/min to the initial high internal phase emulsion; thereby forming the alkyd
     dispersion 1, having a solid content of 52 weight percent, a viscosity of approximately
     900 cP (measured by Brookfield viscometer, spindle #2, 20 rpm, 21 C). The alkyd
25   dispersion had a heat age stability of at least 8 weeks, with a final particle size of 0.18
     microns, and no change in solid content.
     Alkyd Dispersion 2
              Coconut short oil alkyd resin (Alkyd 2), acid value 9.4 mg of KOH per g of
     resin, was heated to 75 'C (approximately for 3 to 4 hours to form a molten state) and
30   fed into a rotor-stator mixer at 15 g/min. 28 percent (weight/weight) ammonium
     hydroxide solution was fed at 0.137 g/min and blended with additional water pumped at
     a rate of 5.0 g/min while additional surfactant E-sperse 100 (commercially available
                                                - 57 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     from Ethox Chemical) (60 percent active) was pumped at a rate of 1.0 mL/min and
     injected into the mixer to create the high internal phase emulsion. The mixer speed was
     set at approximately 1300 rpm. The average particle size diameter of the solid content
     of the emulsion was 0.26 microns. The high internal phase emulsion had a solids
 5   content of 74 weight percent. The high internal phase emulsion was later diluted by
     adding water at 8 g/min to the initial high internal phase emulsion; thereby forming the
     alkyd dispersion 2, having a solid content of 53 weight percent, a viscosity of
     approximately 500 cP (measured by Brookfield viscometer, spindle #1, 20 rpm, 21
      C). The dispersion had a heat age stability of at least 8 weeks, with a final particle
10   size of 0.30 microns, and no change in solid content.
     Epoxy Dispersion 1
             Epoxy Dispersion 1 is a modified bisphenol A based "1" - type solid epoxy
     resin dispersion, with epoxide equivalent weight of approximately 500 g/eq, a pH > 6,
     Brookfield viscosity between 3000 - 9000 mPa.s at 23'C (spindle #4, 10 rpm) and a
15   solid content of 47%, which was provided under the tradename XZ92533.0 from The
     Dow Chemical Company.
     Epoxy Dispersion 2
             Epoxy Dispersion 2 is a modified, semi-solid epoxy novolac dispersion, with
     epoxide equivalent weight of approximately 200 g/eq, a pH > 6, Brookfield viscosity
20   between 5000 - 10000 mPa.s at 23'C (spindle #4, 10 rpm) and a solid content of 58%,
     which was provided under the tradename- XZ92546.00from The Dow Chemical
     Company.
     Preparation of Polyolefin Dispersion 1
             Polyolefin dispersion 1 was prepared according to the following procedure.
25   Engage TM 8200 (CAS No. 26221-73-8), an ethylene-octene copolymer, with a density
     of 0.87 gm/cm3 and a melt index of approximately 5 g/10 min (ASTM D 1238 , 190
     deg Cl 2.16 Kg) , available from The Dow Chemical Company, as the base polymer,
     and PRIMACOR TM 5980i (CAS No. 9010-77-9), ethylene acrylic- acid copolymer
     having acrylic acid content of approximately in the range of 19.5 to 21.5 weight percent
30   and a melt index of approximately 300 g/10 minutes (ASTM D 1238, 190 deg Cl 2.16
     Kg) , available from The Dow Chemical Company, as the stabilizing agent, in a ratio of
     70/30, were fed into a 25 mm diameter twin screw extruder by means of a controlled
                                               - 58 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
     rate feeder where they were forwarded and melted. The extruder temperature profile
     was ramped up to approximately 1600 C prior to the addition of the initial water and
     KOH, as the neutralizing agent, and subsequently, it was cooled back down to a
     temperature below 1000 C by the end of the extruder after the dilution water was added.
 5   The extruder speed was approximately 450 rpm. KOH and water were mixed together
     and fed to the extruder at the initial water introduction point. The dilution water was fed
     via a second pump, and it was introduced into the dilution zone of the extruder. The
     initial water and dilution water streams were optionally pre-heated to the extruder
     temperature. At the extruder outlet, a back-pressure regulator was used to adjust to a
10   suitable pressure inside the extruder barrel to reduce steam formation at the operating
     temperature. The resulting dispersions were cooled and filtered through a 200 micron
     filter. A dispersion of 46.8% solid with pH of 10.2 and a particle size of 0.58[tm was
     prepared.
     Preparation of Polvolefin Dispersion 2
15            Polyolefin dispersion 2 was prepared according to the following procedure.
     Engage TM 8407 (CAS No. 26221-73-8), an ethylene-octene copolymer, with a density
     of 0.87 gm/cm3 and a melt index of approximately 30 g/10 min (ASTM D 1238 , 190
     deg Cl 2.16 Kg) , available from The Dow Chemical Company, as the base polymer,
     and PRIMACOR TM 5980i (CAS No. 9010-77-9), ethylene acrylic- acid copolymer
20   having acrylic acid content of approximately in the range of 19.5 to 21.5 weight percent
     and a melt index of approximately 300 g/10 minutes (ASTM D 1238, 190 deg Cl 2.16
     Kg) , available from The Dow Chemical Company, as the stabilizing agent, in a ratio of
     85/15, were fed into a 25 mm diameter twin screw extruder by means of a controlled
     rate feeder where they were forwarded and melted. The extruder temperature profile
25   was ramped up to approximately 1600 C prior to the addition of the initial water and
     KOH, as the neutralizing agent, and subsequently, it was cooled back down to a
     temperature below 1000 C by the end of the extruder after the dilution water was added.
     The extruder speed was approximately 450 rpm. KOH and water were mixed together
     and fed to the extruder at the initial water introduction point. The dilution water was fed
30   via a second pump, and it was introduced into the dilution zone of the extruder. The
     initial water and dilution water streams were optionally pre-heated to the extruder
     temperature. At the extruder outlet, a back-pressure regulator was used to adjust to a
                                               - 59 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                            PCT/US2011/031765
     suitable pressure inside the extruder barrel to reduce steam formation at the operating
     temperature. The resulting dispersions were cooled and filtered through a 200 micron
     filter. A dispersion of 47.4% solid with pH of 10.7 and a particle size of 0.39 tm was
     prepared.
 5   Polyester Dispersion 1
              Polyester dispersion 1 was prepared according to the following procedure.
     Dynapol L952, a saturated linear aromatic polyester having a Tg of approximately 700
     C, a molecular weight of 18000 g/mol, an acid number of 2 mg KOH/g, and a hydroxyl
     number of 6 mg KOH/g, available from Evonik Industries, and Crylcoat 1510, an
10   aromatic polyester having a Tg of approximately 580 C, a melt viscosity of 8500 Poise
     at 200'C, an acid number of 71 mg KOH/g, and a hydroxyl number of < 2 mg KOH/g,
     available from Cytec, at a ratio of 80/20 by weight, were fed into a 25 mm diameter
     twin screw extruder by means of separate controlled rate feeders. In the extruder the
     polymers were melted, mixed and forwarded. The extruder temperature profile was
15   initially set to 1500 C prior to the addition of the initial water and neutralizing agent.
     After the addition of initial water and neutralizing agent the temperature was lowered to
      1200 C across the barrel. 2-dimethyl amino ethanol (120% neutralization) (CAS No.
      108-01-0) was used as the neutralizing agent. The extruder speed was approximately
     450 rpm. Amine base and initial water were mixed together and fed to the extruder at
20   the initial water introduction point. The dilution water was fed via a second pump, and
     it was introduced into the dilution zone of the extruder. The initial water and dilution
     water streams were optionally pre-heated to the extruder temperature. At the extruder
     outlet, a back-pressure regulator was used to adjust to a suitable pressure inside the
     extruder barrel to prevent steam formation at the operating temperature. The resulting
25   dispersions were cooled and filtered through a 200 micron filter. Polyester dispersion 1
     has a solid content of 52 weight percent, a viscosity of 86 cP (measured by Brookfield
     viscometer, spindle #1, 20 rpm, 21'C), pH of 7.9 and a particle size of 1 tm.
     Polyester Dispersion 2
              Polyester resin Fine-Tone T-382-ES, a bisphenol-A fumarate (Reichhold, acid
30   value 21 mg of KOH per g of resin, Tg 56 'C, M, 13900) was heated to 150 'C
     (approximately for 2 to 3 hours to form a molten state) and fed into a rotor-stator mixer
     at 50 g/min. 25 percent (weight/weight) dimethylethanolamine solution was fed at 3.67
                                                - 60 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
     g/min and blended with additional water pumped at a rate of 25.0 g/min and injected
     into the mixer to create the high internal phase emulsion. The mixer speed was set at
     approximately 750 rpm. The average particle size diameter of the solid content of the
     emulsion was 0.16 microns. The high internal phase emulsion had a solids content of
 5   65 weight percent. The high internal phase emulsion was later diluted by adding water
     at 50 g/min to the initial high internal phase emulsion; thereby forming the polyester
     dispersion 2, having a solid content of 39 weight percent, a viscosity of approximately
      100 cP (measured by Brookfield viscometer, spindle #1, 20 rpm, 21 'C.
     Polyurethane dispersion 1
10           The polyurethane prepolymer resin, based on 45 parts isophorone diisocyanate,
     43 parts Natural Oil Polyol, MW 850 from The Dow Chemical Company, 5 parts
     dimethylol propionic acid and 7 parts of UNOXOL DIOL from The Dow Chemical
     Company, was heated for 1 hour at 70'C, and then transferred to the feed tank of the 2
     inch Oakes dispersion system. The feed tank temperature was set at 70'C. A nitrogen
15   head pressure was placed on the feed tank. The polymer was then pumped into the
     system using a gear pump. The pump was set to a feed rate of 15 g/min.        The polymer
     line and gear pump were heated to 70'C with heat tracing. The heated polymer was
     introduced to the first Oakes rotor-stator mixer. The initial aqueous (IA), deionized
     water, was added coaxially with the polymer. The triethylamine (neutralent) was also
20   pumped coaxially to the front face of the Oakes head using a syringe pump. The speed
     of the Oakes was set to 1500 rpm. The Oakes head was at 20'C.
             The IA was started at a feed ratio of -1:2 Oil:JA. The IA was then slowly
     lowered to increase high internal phase emulsion (HIPE) solids. As the solids level
     increased, the particle size became smaller as the Oil:JA ratio approached the inversion
25   point where the system goes from an O/W emulsion to a W/O emulsion. This gradual
     decrease in IA allowed us to systematically lower the particle size to the desired
     size. The HIPE was then pumped to the second Oakes for chain extension with
     ethylene diamine (100% reaction with residual NCO) and dilution with DI water to the
     desired, 35% solids.
30   Polyurethane dispersion 2
             Polyurethane Dispersion 2, based on Isophorone diisocyanate and Natural Oil
     Polyol MW 850, QRXP1820, is available from The Dow Chemical Company.
                                                - 61 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
       Inventive Coatin2 Compositions
              Inventive coating compositions were prepared according to the following
     general formulation protocols. The alkyd dispersions 1 and 2 were blended with epoxy
     dispersions, polyurethane dispersions, polyolefin dispersions, and polyester dispersions,
 5   as described above, to form the inventive coating compositions.
     General formulation protocols are listed below.
    1. The coating composition blends comprised 70 parts by weight of the solids from first
         dispersion, based on the total solid content of the coating composition.
    2. The coating composition blends comprised 30 parts by weight of the solids from the
10       second dispersion, based on the total solid content of the coating composition.
    3.   The coating composition blends comprised 1 part by weight of butyl cellosolve,
         which is commercially available from The Dow Chemical Company, based on 100
         parts of solid content of the coating composition (Solid Content= Component 1 +
         Component 2).
15  4. The coating composition blends comprised 0.2 part Surfynol 104 from Air Products,
         based on 100 parts of solid content of the coating composition (Solid Content=
         Component 1 + Component 2).
    5.   The coating composition blends comprised 0.1 part Halox Flash-X from Halox,
         based on 100 parts of solid content of the coating composition (Solid Content=
20       Component 1 + Component 2).
    6.   The coating composition blends comprised 0.1 part Acrysol RM 825 from The Dow
         Chemical Company,, based on 100 parts of solid content of the coating composition
         (Solid Content= Component 1 + Component 2).
     Additional Components
25            Drier formulation used for alkyd dispersion 1 formulations is a 1% Co
     Hydrocure II from OMG, 2.2% Zr HydroCEM from OMG, 0.26% Dri-RX HF from
     OMG, based on total dispersion solid.
              Cymel 303 is available from Cytec, which is used for alkyd dispersion 2
     formulations. 80 parts of alkyd dispersion 2 (based on solid content) is formulated with
30   20 parts Cymel 303 (based on solid content).
              Anquamine 401 is available from Air Products, which is used to crosslink
     epoxy dispersion formulations 1 and 2. Amine:Epoxy ratio is 1.2:1.
                                                -  62 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                       PCT/US2011/031765
                   Inventive Examples 1-15 and Comparative Examples 1-5
         Inventive examples 1-15 were prepared and tested for the following properties: (A)
     Modulus and Hardness, (B) Impact Resistance, (C) Solvent Resistance, (D) Gloss and
     Color Retention after Exposure to QUV, and (E) Improvement of Corrosion Resistance.
 5
    A. Modulus and Hardness
     Inventive examples 1-4 were prepared according to the following formulations:
     Inventive example 1 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and polyurethane
     dispersion 1. Inventive example 2 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and
10   polyurethane dispersion 2. Inventive example 3 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion
      1 and polyester dispersion 1.
     Inventive example 4 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and polyester dispersion
     2.
     Comparative example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
15   Inventive Examples 1-4 and Comparative Example 1 were tested for modulus and
     hardness, and the results are reported in Table 2 and below.
                                                Table 2
                                                         Average
                                                        Pendulum     Average
                                                        Hardness    Thickness
                            Sample             MFFT        (sec)       (um)
                      Inventive example 1      <-5          74          44
                      Inventive example 2      <-5          60          46
                      Inventive example 3      <-5          52          51
                      Inventive example 4      <-5          67          52
                         Comparative
                           example 1           <-5          46          49
20       The moduli of Inventive Examples 1 and 2 at room temperature are 4 x 108 and 3 x
      108 dyn/sq cm, respectively. The moduli of Inventive Examples 3 and 4 at room
                                              - 63 -

temperature are 4.2 x 108 and 5.6 x 108 dyn/sq cm, respectively. The moduli of
Comparative Example 1 at room temperature is at 1.8 x 107 dyn/sq cm.
B.     Impact Resistance
       Inventive examples 5-6 were prepared according to the following formulations:
       Inventive Example 5 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and polyolefin
       dispersion 1. Inventive Example 6 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and
       polyolefin dispersion 2.
       Comparative Example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
                                          Table 3
                   Average         Impact          Impact
   Sample         Thickness         Direct         reverse     Adhesion        Mandrel
                    (um)           (in*lbs)        (in*lbs)     (ASTM)          (mm)
  Inventive
                      48              120             20           5B            Pass
  example 5
  Inventive
                      58              100             20           5B            Pass
  example 6
Comparative           49              60              <20          5B            Pass
  example 1
C.     Chemical Resistance
       Inventive example 7 was prepared according to the following formulations:
       Inventive example 7 is a blend of 70/30 of polyurethane dispersion 1 and alkyd
       dispersion 1. Comparative Example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
       Comparative Example 2 is polyurethane dispersion 1.
       Inventive Example 7 and Comparative Examples 1 and 2 were tested for chemical
       resistance, and the results are reported in Table 4.
                                            - 64-

   WO 2012/138348                                                        PCT/US2011/031765
                                            Table 4
                                                               50%               Motor
                             Water    Bleach    Ammonia                   409
             Sample ID                                        EtOH                 Oil
              Inventive
                                 5       5           5            5        3         5
             example 7
           Comparative                               3          5
             example 1
           Comparative
                                 5       5           5            1         1        5
             example 2
    D. Gloss and Color Retention After Exposure to QUV
 5      Inventive Example 8 was prepared according to the following formulations:
        Inventive Example 8 is a blend of 70/30 of epoxy dispersion 1 and alkyd dispersion
     2.
        Comparative Example 3 is epoxy dispersion 1.
        Inventive Example 8 and Comparative Example 3 were tested for gloss and color
10   retention after exposure to QUV, and the results are reported in Table 5.
                                              Table 5
                                             Gloss 20 Loss         Gloss 60 Loss
                    Sample                   %                     %
                   Inventive example 8       8.21                  0.93
                   Comparative example
                   3                         61.36                 30.37
15      Inventive Examples 9 and 10 were prepared according to the following formulations:
        Inventive Example 9 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and polyurethane
     dispersion 1.
                                            - 65 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
         Inventive Example 10 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 1 and polyurethane
     dispersion 2.
         Comparative Example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
         Inventive Examples 9 and 10 and Comparative Example 1 were tested for color
 5   retention, and the results are reported in Table 6, and Fig. 1. Referring to Fig. 1,
     Inventive Example 9 is designated as 3, Inventive Example 10 is designated as 4, and
     Comparative Example 1 is designated as 73.
                                                 Table 6
                                                             Color
                                                             Difference
                             Sample                          AE
                            Inventive example 9              7.67
                            Inventive example 10             7.30
                            Comparative example 1            9.72
10
    E. Improvement of Corrosion Resistance
         Inventive Example 1iwas prepared according to the following formulations:
         Inventive Example 11 is a blend of 70/30 of polyurethane dispersion 2 and alkyd
         dispersion 1. Comparative Example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
15       Comparative Example 4 is polyurethane dispersion 2.
         Inventive Example 11 and Comparative Examples 1 and 4 were tested for corrosion
     resistance, and the results are reported in Table 7.
         Referring to Table 7, blister is rated as vF (very few), F (few), M (medium), MD
     (medium dense) and the number refers to the size of the blister. Rust is rated as sl
20   (slight), med (medium), hvy (heavy) and the number refers to the area of the rust and
     undercut refers to the distance of penetration of the rust beneath the scoring.
25
                                                - 66 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
                                               Table 7
                                                  20 hrs
                                                  salt
                                                  spray
                                                                            undercut
                                                    blister        rust       (mm)
                 Inventive Example 11                7-9F         s1 6%         2
                 Comparative example 1               9MD          S1 4%         1
                 Comparative example 4                6F        med 15%         5
        Inventive Example 12 was prepared according to the following formulations:
        Inventive Example 12 is a blend of 70/30 of polyolefin dispersion 2 and alkyd
 5   dispersion 1.
         Comparative Example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
        Comparative Example 5 is polyolefin dispersion 2.
        Inventive Example 12 and Comparative Examples 1 and 5 were tested for blister,
     rust, and undercut, and the results are reported in Table 8.
10                                                Table 8
                                                          20 hrs
                                                          salt
                                                          spray
                                                                               undercut
                                                          blister      rust     (mm)
                                                                       med
              Inventive example 12                           9F        20%        1
              Comparative example 1                        9MD        S14%        1
                                                                       hvy
              Comparative example 5                          6F        60%        1
        Inventive Examples 13 and 14 were prepared according to the following
        formulations:
                                               - 67 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                         PCT/US2011/031765
        Inventive Example 13 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 2 and epoxy
     dispersion 1.
        Inventive Example 14 is a blend of 70/30 of alkyd dispersion 2 and epoxy
     dispersion 2.
 5       Comparative Example 1A is alkyd dispersion 2.
        Inventive Examples 13 and 14 and Comparative Example 1A were tested for blister,
     rust, and undercut, and the results are reported in Table 9. Comparative Example 1A
     did not form a film, so no properties were tested. Referring to Fig. 2, Inventive
     Example 13 is designated as 9D and Inventive Example 14 is designated as 1OD.
10
                                                Table 9
                    20 hrs                           48 hrs
                    salt                             salt
                    spray                            spray
                                        undercut                      undercut
                     blister    rust      (mm)       blister   rust     (mm)        comments
       Inventive
       Example                                                                    tarnished
           13          9vF     sl 8%         5         9vF    sl 8%       10      appearance
       Inventive
      example 14       9F      sl 5%         3          9F    sl 5%        6            -
        Inventive Example 15 was prepared according to the following formulations:
15      Inventive Example 15 is a blend of 70/30 of epoxy dispersion 1 and alkyd
        dispersion 1.
        Comparative Example 1 is alkyd dispersion 1.
        Comparative Example 3 is epoxy dispersion 1.
        Inventive Example 15 and Comparative Examples 1 and 3 were tested for blister,
20   rust, and undercut, and the results are reported in Table 10.
                                               - 68 -

WO 2012/138348                                         PCT/US2011/031765
                                  Table 10
               20 hrs                  48 hrs
               salt                    salt
               spray                   spray
                            undercut                undercut
               blister rust   (mm)     blister rust   (mm)     comments
    Inventive           sl                     med
   example 15     9F   5%       1      7-9M    15%      2           --
  Comparative
    example 1           Si                      Si            Tarnished
                9MD    4%       1      9 MD    5%       1     appearance
  Comparative
    example 3           sl                      sl            tarnished
                 9vF   5%       3       9vF    5%       2     appearance
                                 - 69 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                          PCT/US2011/031765
                                           Test Methods
             Test methods include the following:
     Minimum Film Formation Temperature
             Minimum film formation temperature was measured according to ASTM- D
 5   2354-91
     Pendulum Hardness
             Pendulum hardness was measured using a Pendulum Hardness Tester from
     BYK Gardner equipped with a Kdnig pendulum. The tester was run according to ISO
      1522 and set to measure hardness in seconds. This method evaluates hardness by
10   measuring the damping time in seconds of an oscillating pendulum as its amplitude
     decreases from 6' to 3'. The pendulum rests with 2 stainless steel balls, 5mm in
     diameter, on the coating surface. When the pendulum is set into motion, the balls roll
     on the surface and put pressure on the coating. Depending on the elasticity of the
     coating, the damping will be stronger or weaker. If there are no elastic forces, the
15   pendulum will damp stronger. High elasticity will cause weak damping. In other
     words, the amplitude of the pendulum oscillations decreases more rapidly with softer
     coatings resulting in shorter damping times.
     Film Thickness
             Film thickness was measured via a Gardner micro TRI-gloss meter is used.
20   Impact Resistance
             The impact tester is used to test coatings for crack formation, breaking off,
     adhesion and elasticity. Heavy duty impact tester PF- 1120 from BYK-Gardner or
     equivalent is used. A metal coated sample is placed with coating side up underneath the
     equipment anvil. A four pound punch is raised to the highest point in the guide tube
25   which is equivalent to 160 inch- pounds and released. The punch hits the anvil and an
     indent is formed in the panel which is a concave deformation. The panel is removed
     and observed to see if there was coating damage. Good lighting and a magnifying glass
     may be helpful to see damage around the outside diameter of the indent. Rings are the
     most common defect seen; sometimes the coating delaminates from the metal panel and
30   cracks or flakes off. These are considered failures so the test is repeated again with a
     lower drop level until three consecutive drops at a given distance show no sign of
     failure. The distance marked on the guide tube is the equivalent inch-pounds based on
                                               - 70 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                            PCT/US2011/031765
     the four pound weight. With the impact coming in direct contact with the coating
     surface the direction and value is reported as direct impact resistance in inch-pounds.
     Reverse or indirect impact
              Reverse or indirect impact is also tested. The panel is impacted with the coating
 5   side down, thus producing a bulge in the panel. The panel is then removed and the
     coating side is observed for damage. The most common failure is starburst cracking or
     delaminating and flaking off. If there is a failure the test is repeated again with a lower
     drop level until three consecutive drops at a given distance show no signs of failure.
     The value is reported as either reverse or indirect impact resistance in inch-pounds.
10   Chemical Resistance
              Chemical and stain resistance of the cured coatings was tested by exposing the
     coatings to various chemicals, according to ASTM-D 1308. The list of chemicals that
     may be included: deionized water, 50% ethyl alcohol in water, bleach, household
     ammonia, 409 and olive oil. Several drops of each chemical were placed on the coating
15   and covered with a watch glass for 24 hours before evaluation. Filter paper, 1 inch
     diameter, was used to prevent initial wicking of liquid in some samples. After 24
     hours, the chemicals were washed away with water and the panels were dried with
     paper towels. After 1 hr. coatings were visually inspected for any signs of chemical
     attack or staining and were ranked on a 1-5 scale, from 5 (no effect) through 1 (coating
20   failure).
     QUV
               QUV was measured according to ASTM-D 4587, Standard Practice for
     Light/Water Exposure of Paint
     Corrosion Resistance
25            Corrosion resistance was measured according to ASTM-B 117-09 Standard
     Practice for Operating Salt Spray (Fog) Apparatus.
     Acid value determination
              A 1-2 g sample of alkyd was removed from the reactor using a glass pipette and
     weighed into a 250 mL Erlenmeyer flask.                 To the flask, 25 mL of 50/50
30   isopropanol/xylenes mixture was added along with a stir bar. The flask was placed on a
     stirrer/hot plate and allowed to mix with gentle heating until the material was dissolved.
                                               - 71 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
     Then, a few drops of phenolphthalein indicator solution were added to the flask and the
     contents titrated to the phenolphthalein endpoint using 0. IN potassium hydroxide in
     methanol. The AV was then calculated according to the following formula:
                            AV=     mL titrant x 56.1 x normality of titrant
 5                                             sample weight in grams
             Average volume particle size diameter may be measured via light scattering
     using a particle size analyzer or by electron microscopy using Transmission Electron
     Microscopy (TEM) or Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM).
      Particle Size Analyzer
10           A Beckman Coulter LS230 particle size analyzer was used with a Small
     Volume Module as the sample delivery system. The software version utilized was
     Version 3.29. Hardware and software were obtained from Beckman Coulter Inc.,
     Miami, Florida.
             The analysis conditions for all measurements used a fluid refractive index of
15    1.332, a sample real refractive index of 1.5, and a sample imaginary refractive index of
     0.0. The extended optical model was not employed. The polarization intensity
     differential scattering (PIDS) option was activated and used to generate the particle size
     information. The average particle size diameter was measured and reported in Pm.
     Electron Microscopy
20   (1) TEM
             The samples are first diluted with distilled water (1 drop latex to 10 mL of D.I.
     water) then a -5 kL drop is placed onto a Formvar (polyvinyl formal) coated TEM grid
     and allowed to air dry. The samples are examined with a JEOL JEM- 1230 TEM
     operating at an accelerating voltage of 120 kV using either the standard specimen
25   holder or using the cryo-stage at -120'C. Digital images are acquired with a Gatan
     Multiscan 794 CCD camera with a resolution of 1024 x 1024 pixels and processed
     with Adobe Photoshop 5.0. Image analysis is done using ImageJ software. A
     threashold is applied to gray-scale images, agglomerates are separated using a
     watershed function, and particle areas are measured. Particle areas are converted to
30   equivalent diameters via the equation diameter = 2 *sqrt(Areac).Particles with a
     diameter ranging from -3 nm to 3 pm can be measured by TEM techniques.
     (2) SEM
                                               - 72 -

   WO 2012/138348                                                           PCT/US2011/031765
             The samples are diluted with deionized water, and then are dropped onto a
     fragment of clean silicon wafer and dried at room temperature. After they are sputter
     coated with 10 nm of osmium they are imaged in an FEI Nova NanoSEM field
     emission gun scanning electron microscope at 3 to 5 keV. Image analysis is done using
 5   ImageJ software. A threashold is applied to gray-scale images, agglomerates are
     separated using a watershed function, and particle areas are measured. Areas were
     converted to diameters via the equation diameter = 2 *sqrt(Areac).Diameters -50 nm
     to 50 pm can be measured.
             Viscosity may be measured via Brookfield viscometer, at 20 rpm and 21 'C.
10           Viscosity of alkyd resins in the melt
             Viscosity measurements of the alkyd polymer were taken using a TA
     Instruments AR 2000 rheometer. A sample of alkyd polymer is analyzed by flow
     rheometry using parallel plate geometry at a specified temperature. Viscosity is
     calculated from measured torque and is based on calibrated instrumental factors
15   specific to test geometry, and the measured shear rate of 0.10 /sec.
             Heat Age Stability is determined by re-measuring (after a specified
     temperature and time cycle) the particle size and solids content of the dispersion to
     determine if a change has occurred. The dispersion samples were placed in a glass jar
     with a plastic lid. The jar was placed inside an oven set at a temperature of 50 'C and
20   allowed to sit for up to 12 weeks. At the end of the time period, if no
     settling/separation of the dispersion was visible to the eye, the particle sizes of the
     samples were re-measured using the same procedure as outlined previously.
             The present invention may be embodied in other forms without departing from
     the spirit and the essential attributes thereof, and, accordingly, reference should be
25   made to the appended claims, rather than to the foregoing specification, as indicating
     the scope of the invention.
                                                - 73 -

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A coating composition comprising:
        (a) from 10 to 90 percent by weight based on the total weight of the coating
        composition of an aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion comprising:
                from 40 to 70 percent by weight of one or more alkyds based on the total
weight of the aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion, wherein each said one or
more alkyds has an acid value of less than 10 and a molecular weight (Me) in the range of
greater than 1000 Dalton;
                from more than 0 to less than 10 percent by weight of one or more
                surfactants, based on the total weight of the aqueous, high-solid, solvent
                free alkyd dispersion; and
                from 30 to 55 percent by weight of water, based on the total weight of the
                aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion;
                wherein said aqueous, high-solid, solvent-free alkyd dispersion has an
average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 pm; and
        (b) from 10 to 90 percent by weight based on the total weight of the coating
composition of one or more second components selected from the group consisting of
epoxy resins;
                wherein said coating composition has a solid content of in the range of
from 25 to 65 percent by weight of solid content, based on the total weight of the coating
composition, and the coating composition has a pH in the range of from 7 to 11, wherein
the coating composition has a volume average particle size in the range of from 0.03 to 5
pm, and wherein the coating composition has a viscosity in the range of from 100 to
10,000 cP.
2.      The coating composition according to Claim 1, wherein said epoxy resin has the
formula:
                                            - 74 -

where n has an average value of 0 or more.
3.      The coating composition according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein said one or
more alkyds are neutralized up to 100 percent by a neutralizing agent.
4.      The coating composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 3, wherein
said alkyd dispersion has a viscosity in the range of 100 to 10,000 cP.
5.      The coating composition according to any one of Claims 1 to 2 and 4,
wherein said one or more alkyds are neutralized up to 200 percent by a neutralizing
agent.
6.      One or more coating layers derived from the coating composition of any
one of Claims I to 5.
7.      An article comprising one or more coating layers derived from a coating
composition of any one of Claims 1 to 5.
8.      A method for producing a coating composition comprising the steps of:
        providing one or more molten or liquid alkyds, wherein each said one or more
molten or liquid alkyds has an acid number of less than 10 and a molecular weight (Me)
in the range of greater than 1000 Dalton;
        providing one or more surfactants;
        providing water;
        optionally providing one or more neutralizing agents;
        continuously emulsifying said one or more molten or liquid alkyds in the water in
the presence of said one or more surfactants and optionally said one or more neutralizing
agents;
        thereby producing a high internal phase emulsion;
        providing additional water;
        contacting said high internal phase emulsion with said additional water;
                                            - 75 -

         thereby producing said aqueous alkyd dispersion, wherein said alkyd dispersion
comprises from 40 to 70 percent by weight of said one or more alkyds, from more than 0
to less than 10 percent by weight of said one or more surfactants, and wherein said
dispersion has an average particle size diameter in the range of from 0.05 to 5 pm;
         providing one or more second components selected from the group consisting of
epoxy resins;
         contacting said alkyd dispersion and said one or more second components; and
         thereby forming the coating composition, wherein said coating composition has a
solid content of in the range of from 25 to 65 percent by weight of solid content, based on
the total weight of the coating composition, and the coating composition has a pH in the
range of from 7 to 11, and wherein the coating composition has a volume average particle
size in the range of from 0.03 to 5 pm.
9.       The method for producing a coating composition according to Claim 8, further
comprising the step of providing one or more neutralizing agents.
 10.     The method for producing a coating composition according to Claim 9, wherein
said one or more molten or liquid alkyds in the water is continuously emulsified
in the presence of said one or more surfactants and said one or more neutralizing agents.
 11.     The method for producing a coating composition according to any one of Claims
8 to 10 wherein said one or more alkyds are neutralized up to 100 percent by a
neutralizing agent.
 12.     The method for producing a coating composition according to any one of Claims
8 to 11, wherein said alkyd dispersion has a viscosity in the range of 100 to 10,000 cP.
 13.     The method for producing a coating composition according to any one of Claims
8 to 10 and 12, wherein said one or more alkyds are neutralized up to 200 percent by a
neutralizing agent.
                                            - 76 -

14.     The coating composition of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said alkyd
dispersion has a solid content of greater than 60 weight percent, based on the weight of
the alkyd dispersion.
15.     The coating composition of any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein said alkyd
dispersion has a solid content of greater than 65 weight percent, based on the weight of
the dispersion.
                                            - 77 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
