ABSTRACT
       An apparatus for moving proppant from a container has a frame with a
surface for suitable for receiving a container thereon, a hopper affixed to the frame,
and a conveyor having a surface positioned below the hopper. The hopper has an
opening at or adjacent to a lower end thereof. The hopper is suitable for receiving
proppant from the container. The surface of the conveyor is suitable for receiving the
proppant as discharged through the opening of the hopper. A receptacle is
translatably positioned at the surface of the frame. A metering gate is translatably
positioned adjacent to the opening of the hopper.

                       115
   24
                        22
2O    30
                      ]ht 1..42
               '32              12 308
       F1(A
                  414
                                       ,ET
          48A8
         4 0,
      ------G---S-

    SUPPORT APPARA TUS FOR MOVING PROPPANT FROM A CONTAINER IN A
                               PROPPANT DISCHARGE SYSTEM
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001j The present invention relates to proppant discharge system wherein proppant can be
discharged from a storage container. Additionally, the present invention the relates to support
apparatus for maintainingthe containerin a desired location during the discharging ofproppant from
the container. Additionally, the present invention relates to conveying systems whereby the proppant
can be discharged from a container and conveyed to a location remote from the container.
                               BACKGROUN D OF THE INVENTION
[00021 Hydraulic fracturing is the propagation of fractions in a rock layer caused by the presence of
pressurized fluid. Hydraulic fractures may form naturally. in the case of veins or dikes,or may be
man-made in order to release petroleum. natural gas, coal seam uas, or other substances for
extraction. Fracturing is done from a welbore drilled I to reservoir rock fortmations. The energy from
the injection of a highly-pressturized fracking fid creates new channels in the rock which can
increase the extraction rates and ultimate recovery of tossil fuels The fracture width is typically
maintained after the injection by introducing a proppantinto the injected fhuid Proppant is a material,
such as grains of sand, cerane or other particulates, that prevent the fractures from closing when
the injection is stopped.
[00031 With the rise of hydraulic fracturing over the past decade, there is a steep climb in proppant
demand. Global supplies are currently tight. The number of proppant suppliers worldwide has
increased since 2000 from a handful to well over fifty sand, ceramic proppant and resin-coat
producers.
[OO04j By the far the dominantproppant is silica sand., made up of ancient weathered quartz, the most
common mineral in the Earth's contain mental crust. Un like common sand, which. often feels gritty
when rubbed between the fingers, sand used as a proppant tends to roll to the touch as a result of its
round, spherical shape aid tigitly-graded particle distribution. Sand quality is a function of both
deposit and processing brati size is critical, as any given proppant must reliably fall within certain
mesh ranges, subject to downhole conditions and completion design Generally coarser proppant
allows the higher flow capacity due to the larger pore spaces between grains. However, u may break
down or crush more readily under stress due to the relatively fewer grain-to-gmi contact points to

bear the stress often injured iI deep oil- and gas-bearing formations.
 100051 Typically, in any hydraulic fracturing operation, a large amount of such proppant is required.
Typically, it has been difficult to effectively store the proppant at the fracturing sites. Additionally.,
it has been found to be rather difficult to effectively transport the proppant to the desired location.
Often, proppant is hauled to the desired locations on the back of trucks and is dumped onsite. Under
such circumstances, the proppant is often exposed to adverse weather conditions. This will
effectively degrade the quality of the proppant during its storage. Additionally the maintenance of
proppant in containers at the hydraulic fractining site requires a large capital investment in storage
facilities  Typically, the unloading of such storage facilities is carried out on a facilit -by-facility
basis. As such, there is a need to be able to effectively transport the proppant to and store the
proppant in a desired location adjacent to the hydralic fracturing location.
 [0006j With the development and acceptance of the vell stimulation methodology known as
"hydraulic fracturing", a unique logistics challenge has been created in delivering the massive
quantities of proppant from domestic sand mines to the wellhead. This logistics challenge affects
every stakeholder up-and-down the logistics chain, In particular, this includes sand mine owners,
railroads, trans-loading facilities, oil-field service companies trucking companies and exploration
and production companies. The existing method of delivering sand to the consumer requires the use
of expensive specialized equipment and a high level of coordination. This makes the process subject
to a myriad of problems that disrupt the efficient flow of proppant to the wellhead. The result of
utilizing the current method is the expenditure of hundreds of millions of dollars in largely
unnecessary logistics costs.
 100071 Sand mines are being rapidly developed all over the United States to satisfy the demand that
the "Shale Boom" has created For proppant. Most ofthe recent nes that havc come on-line, or are
in varying stages of development, have limited transportation mifrasttrcture to support the export of
sand from the sand-pit. As a result, many mines are building rail spurs that will accommodate up to
 100 rail cars or more that can be loaded and staged for transportation to the designated destination
Along with rail-t ack. these companies arealso investing in expensive vertical silo storage facilities
to store thousands of tons of proppant. The sand mines are unable to effectively ship proppant to the
shale regions without equal fluid trans-loading and stomge facilities on the receiving end of the
                                                     -

logistics chain. This results in lost revenue and productivity for the mine owner and higher prices
for proppaint buyers in the destination region.
[00081 Railroads are a critical pat ofthe logistics chain required to move proppant from mine to the
various shale regions, Due to the lack of rail track and trans-loading facilities in some of these
remote regionsthe railroad companies must be selective of their customers" delivery locations, and
make sure that their customers have the ability to efficiently off-load rail cars. Recently,the railroads
have seen the allocated fleet of hopper cars being stranded at those destination where there is no cost
effective storage option to efficiently off-load those cars. Consequently. there has been a significant
opportunity cost that the railroads have been forced to pay. As such, a need has developed for
facilitating the ability to quickly and inexpensively offf-load proppant frmm rail cars so as to enable
the railroads to improve the velocity, tum-around and revenue-generating capacity ofthe rail-car fleet.
[0009] Limuited storage at trans-loading facilities has severely limited many of the current facilities'
ability to operate efficiently. Most trans-load facilities are forced to off-load rail hopper cars by
bringing in trucks (i.e. pneumatics) along the rail. siding; and conveying sand directly from rail to
truck, This requires an intense coordination effort on the part of the trans-loader as well as the
trucking community, Long truck lines are commonplace, and demurrage fees (i.e. waiting time
charged by tracking companies) amount to hundreds of millions of dollars nationwide. As such, the
trans-loader is not able to fully realize the utilization of conveying and other material handling
equipment. The tiroughput of these trans-loading terminals severely reduces costing of the terminal
meaningful revenue.
[00101 Additionally, optimal trans-load terminal locations are immobile and not able to move from
one area of the shale pay to another. Investors in immobile silo and flat storage facilities can see the
utilization and value of those investments tumble          A potential loss of the investment in such
immobile silos can often scare investment capital away from these types of future projects so as to
further exacerbate the logistics chain problem.         As such, a need has developed for a portable,
inexpensive storage and delivery solution for proppant that would help revive the capital needed to
improve the facilities and maximize the revenue-generating potential ofexisting and new trans-load
and storage facilities
[00111 The lackof eficient trans-load and storage facilities in shale regions have taken a beavy toll
                                                    ~3-

on the efficiencies of trucking fleets. While trucking COmpanics have typically charged demurrage
fees to compensate for the waiting time and lost productivity, those types of charges are under
significant resistance from the customer base. V/hen trucking companies are required to wait in line
to be loaded, or wait at a well-site to be unloaded, the number of turns that the equipment can make
in a day is severely limited. Rather than turning two or three loads in a single day, the trucks more
typically make one trip per day, and very commonly may make onie delivery every two or three days.
This lack ofefficient fleet utilization results in the trucking company having to buy more equipment
and hire more drivers to move the same amount of material than would be necessary. As such, it
would be desirable to eliminate denmurrage charges and to present the opportunity for trucking
companies to become more profitable while making smaller investments in equipment.
[00121 Service companies (such as fracturing companies) are held captive by the current proppant
delivery process. This is the result of inefficient trans-load facilities and pneumatic (bulk) truck
deliveries. The service company cannot frac a well if it does not have a supply of proppant. It is
widely knovn that the problems surrounding the efficient delivery ofproppant to the well-site is one
of the primary challenges to the service companies in successfully completing a frac job. Pressure
pumps, coiled tubing and other well stimulation equipment, often site idle due to the lack of required
proppant at the well-site, "Screening-Out" or running out of proppant is very common at well
locations due to the lack of control over what is happening up-stream in the proppant logistics chain.
This results in lower profit margins to the service cotpiany. Many small to medium-sized hydraulic
fracturing companies have little or no logistics infrastructure. Sone have entered the marketplace
without much thought to the logistics problems associated vith taking delivery of the necessary
supplies to complete a well. In doi         so. many of these companies have been forced to source
material and employvery expensive logistics options in order to survive. This has resulted in above
 iarket pricing .in order to complete wells. There is also a risk of losing out on othevise viable
hydraulic fracturing contracts. As such, there is a need to lower costs across the board in order to
properly compete.
[00131 Exploration and production companies, along with the entire U.S. population, pay the
ultimate bill for all of the inefficiencies and waste that plagues the proppant supply chain. Service
companies are forced to price hydraulic fracturing services by taking into account the historical costs
                                                     -4-

of supply chain problems. Exploration and production companies need to pass on the overall
 increased cost of production As suc. there is aneed to provide a cost-effective solution to improve
the prof itability of stake holders in the proppant logistics chain, wil iowerng the overall cost to the
consumer.
100141 U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/427,140. filed on March 22, 2012 by the present
inventor describes a system for the delivery of proppant between a loading station and the well site.
This application describes the steps of placing the storage container in a location adjacent to a train
site such that the proppant, as delivered by the train, can be discharged into the container, The
container can then be transported for storage in stacks at the loadinngarea or can be delivered to a
tilting mechanism at the loading station. The ulting station will tilt the Container so as to allow the
proppant to flow outwardly therefrom Thisproppant will flow by a conveyor, to a pneumatic truck.
The truck can then transport the pioppant over the highways to the well site. At the well site, the
proppant from the pneuniatic tuck can then be discharged into a twenty foot conita inner at the well
site. These twenty foot containers can be stored at the well site in a stacked configuration.
Ultimately, each of the containers can be transported to another tilting mechanism at the well site so
that the proppant within each of the storage containers can be discharged onto a conveyor and
ultimately for use during the fracturing operation.
[0015f In this U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 3/427,140, the twenty-foot ISO container that is
utilized is one of the most inexpensive and readily-available pieces of transportation equipment in
the world. It was determined that the use of the twenty-foot container allows for the transportation
of proppant through various minor modificaions to the internal walls and reinforcements of the
twenty-foot ISO container The available capachy is more than acceptable. It was determined that
this modified twenty-foot container could hold. i excess of forty-five tons of proppant. The cost of
an unmodified twenty-foot ISO container is less than four thousand dollars This makes it very
affordable compared to the cost of building vertical silos or flat storage buildings.
[001 6] The twenty-foot ISO container was modified by cutting a hole in the top of the container and
constructing a water-tight. hinged hatch through which the proppant could be pouredbyany number
ofreadily-available conveymg units There was also a lower hatch in the twenty-foot ISO container.
This lower hatch could be opened to drain the proppant out of the twenty-foot ISO :ontaiiner

Alternatively, a square flow-gate was fabricated and welded to the vertical rear lower side of the
twenty-foot container. This gate hatch allowed the container to be tilted in the manner of a dump
truck bed. As a result, sand could flow out of the flow gate while moderating the flow of the sand.
[0017j This patent application provided the ability to trans-load sand via containers from a standard
rail hopper car to the tventy-fbot ISO container, It was determined that the container could be loaded
in less than twenty minutes with at least forty-five tons ofproppant. Bypre-positioning the container
along the rail track, movable conveyors could work the train from one end to the other and unload
the train in a very efficient and timely mante.This part of the process eliminated the coordination
efforts of calling in pneumatic trucks that could be systematically loaded by conveying units. This
reduced the time necessary to unload a trains hopper cars by many hours. It also eliminated truck
traffic and derurrage charges at the rail-spur and trans-load facility.
[0018] Once the proppant is loaded into the containeranother piece ofspecialized eqtupient would
be used to lift the  full container and to stack the container upon other containers. The stackable
arrangement of containers allows the ability to operate and store proppant within a very small
footprint. The specialized equipment that was required to lift the full containers was so heavy and
large that it would have to be disassembled into several pieces before moving from one location to
another. This created some limitations on the flexibility that such equipment lent to the containerized
process.
[00191 By "containerizing" proppant, it was found that an inventory manigenent system could be
added in. order to provide real-tine, accurate information pertaining to the volume/inventory of
proppant that the customers own in a particular region, Currently many proppant buyers are subject
to inaccurate volume reporting from trans-loading facilities. As such, they may not be certain that
the proppant being delivered to the well-ite is, in fact, of the quality and grade that they have
purchased. By applying an inventory management system, bar coding and scanning the containers
into and out ofinventory the customers would be assured that they have received their proppant and
would be able streamline the procurement process when ordering more material.
100201 In this prior process, since the twenty-foot ISO container needed to be emptied anA trans
loaded into pneumatic trailers for delivery to the wellhead, a tilting unit was incorporated into the
process. This tilting unit accepted the twenty-foot ISO containers, The tilting unit is able to lift one
                                                    -6-

end of the container and create the required angle to wholly empty the container through the flow
gate, Once tiled the sand would spill onto the bell of the conveyor and rise vertically into a hopper
The hopper rested. on a steel fabrication stand. This stand is high enough such that a truck that pulls
a pneumatic trailer could drive under the stand and be gravity fed by the hopper so as to fill up the
sand trailer. These "loading stations" could be replicated along a path so as to alleviate the bottleneck
of trucks at a trans-load facility that has a limited number of conveyors available to load the trucks.
Once again, trucking denurrage at this trans-load facility could be dramatically reduced through the
process. The railcars can be off-loaded rapidly and released back to the railroads. This also reduced
or eliminated denurrage fees charged by the railroads for rail hopper cars that stood waiting to be oW
loaded.
[0021] This prior process created an inexpensive storage solution improved the efficiencies of the
trans-loading process, added inventory visibility and controls, and reduced both truck and rail
demurrage charges. However, it did have several limitations. For example, the twenty-foot ISO
container     vhile capable ofhandiing ninety thousand pounds of proppant could not be transported
legally over a public road. In most states, the maximum allowable total weight of a vehicle and its
payload is eighty thousand pounds of gross vehicle weight in order to be considered alegal load. By
law, any load that can be broken down by two units or more, in order to achieve a legal weight limit
must be divided into multiple loads. Since proppant is divisible, the law does not allow for heavy
or over-weight loads.
[00221 The angle of repose of a granular material is the steepest angle of descent or dip of the slope
relative to the horizontal plane when material on the slope face is on the verge of sliding. When bulk
granular materials are poured onto a horizontal surface, a conical pile will form. The internal angle
between the surface of the pile and the horizontal surface is known as the angle of repose and is
related to the density, surface area and shape of the particles, and the coefficient of friction of the
material. The angle of repose is also gravity-dependent.
[00231 When analyzing the angle of repose of proppant poured into a tventy-foot ISO container, it
Was evident that much of the volume of'such a container was void. Specifically, the upper ends of
nventy-foot ISO container could not be utilized without somehow manipulating or tilting the
container as it was filled, by a conveyor. Moreover, when emptying the container by way of the
                                                     -7-

onginal bottom hatch, the proppant would pour directly out of the bottom and leave a significant
amount of material sitting on the floor of the container.
[0024j US. Patent Application Serial No.13/555,635, filed on July 23,2012 by the present inventor,
is the parent of the present application. U.S. Patent Application Serial No, 13/555,635 described a
new generation of the container by taking the original twenty-foot ISO container and splitting it in
half As such, a ten foot ISO container was provided. By breaking the container into a ten toot
configuration, it was determined that such a container could hold approximately 45,000 - 48,000
pounds ofproppant. More importantly the total gross vehicle weight ofsuch a fully-loaded container
could be legally transported over apublic road. This was amajor breakthrough The container could
be delivered to the wellhead in advance of a frac crew and eliminate sand deliveries during the
fracturing process. Because all of the required proppant for any frac job could be delivered and
stored on-site, such a ten-foot ISO container effectively eliminated the occurrence of trucking
demurrage charges at the well-site. Also, the use of such a ten-foot container effectively eliminated
the problems caused by the angle of repose of the proppant and allowed the volunetric capacity of
such a ten-foot ISO container to be more fully utilized. It was found to be the optimal configuration
size, and cost for the process.
100251 This prior application utilized an insert that is fabricated and welded within the interior of the
ten-foot ISO container, The insert allowed the proppant, loaded through the top hatch, to fully flow
out of a nevly designed bottom flow-gate. The need to manipulate or tilt the container was
elhninated. This ten-foot container could now be filled and emptied by using only gravity to do so.
[00261 In the past, various patents have issued relating to storage and transport facilities. For
example, U S. Patent Publication No. 2008/0179054, published on July 3152008 to McGough et al.,
shows abulk material storage and transportation system In particular, the storage system is mounted
on the trailer of a truck. The storage system includes walls that define an interior volume suitable
for receiving the aggregate material therein. There are hoppers provided at the bottom of the
container. These hoppers have inclined walls. The hoppers can extend so as to allow the material
from   the inside of the container to be properly conveyed to a location exterior of the container.
Actuators are used so as to expand and collapse the container,
100271 US. Patent No. 7,240,681, issued on July 10, 2007 to L Saik, describes a trailer-mounted
                                                   -8-

mobile apparatus for dewatering and recovering formation sand. The trailer is mounted to a truck
towable trailer so as to receive sand therein. The container has a pair of sloping end walls, The back
end of the container is suitably openable so as to allow the sand to be removed therefrom.             A
pneumatic or hydraulic ramis provided on the forward part of the container so as to allow the
container to be lifted angularly upwardly so as to allow sand to be discharged through the gate at the
rear of the container,
[00281 U.S. Patent No. 4.247.228 issued on January 27, 1981 to Gray et al, describes a dump truck
or trailer With a pneumatic conveyor. The container is mounted to a frame on wheels. A hydraulic
ram tilts the container for dumping through a rear outlet. A pneumatic conveyor is carried by the
frame with an intake at the rear of the container. A gate allows the solids to be dumped
conventionally by gravity or to be blown to a storage facility by the pneumatic container            The
container has a top hatch forced therein so as to allow the solids to be introduced into the interior
of the container.
100291 U.S. Patent No, 2,865,52, issued on December 23, 1958 to Fisher et aL, shows a bulk
material truck that has an interior volume suitable for the receipt of bulk material therein. A
pneumatic conveyer is utilized so as to allow the removal of such material from the bottom of the
container. A pair of sloping walls are provided on opposite sides of the container so as to allow the
bulk materialwithin the container to be passed toward the bottom of the container. A top hatch is
provided on the top of the conveyer         The pneumatic conveyer is connected to the bottom of the
container
[00301 It is an object ofthe present invention to provide a supportapparatus for moving proppant that
allows proppant to be easily discharged from a container position ned on the support apparatus,
100311 It is another object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus that allows
proppant from. the container to be easily conveyed to a desired location.
[00321 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus which allows
proppant to be selectively discharged from a container positioned on the support apparatus.
[00331 It is a further object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus which allows
proppant from the container to be properly metered during the discharging onto the conveyor.
[00341 It is still another object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus that maximizes
                                                     -9-

the ability to control the flow of proppant from the container ftr the purposes of metering the
proppant onto the conveyor.
[00351 It is still another object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus that facilitates
the ability to easily place a container upon a surface of the support apparatus.
100361 Itis still another object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus for aproppant
containing container which can be easily transported to a desired location.
[00371 It is also a huter object of the present invention to provide a support apparatus which
miinimizes the requirements ofactuators associated with the metering ofproppant onto the conveyor.
100381 These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent ftron
a reading of the attached specification and appended claims.
                              BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0039] The present invention is a support for moving proppant from a container. The support
apparatus comprises a frame having a surface for suitable for receiving a container thereon, a hopper
affixed to the frame and having an opening at or adjacent to a lower end thereof, and a conveyor
having a surface positioned below the opening of the hopper. The hopper is suitable for receiving
proppant from the container. The surface of the conveyor is suitable for receiving the proppant from
the hopper.
[0040f In the present invention a receptacle is translatably positioned at the surface of the frame: An
actuator is connected to the receptacle so as to move the receptacle between a first position and a
second position. The first position is suitable for retaining the proppant in the container. The second
position is suitable for discharging the proppant from the container into the hopper. The receptacle
comprises body having iaslot opening at an upperiend thereof The body extends above the surface
of the frame. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the receptacle includes a first
receptacle positioned adjacent one side of the frame and a second receptacle positioned adjacent an
opposite side of the frame.
[0041 The hopper includes a first side wall, a second side wall, a first end wall and a second end
wall. The first end wall and the second end wall extend between the first side wall and the second
side wall. The first and second side walls and the first and second end walls converge toward the
opening, of the hopper. The opening of the hopper, in the preferred embodiment of the present
                                                    -10-

invention, hasaninverted-shapedconfiguration The openingof thehopperhas aplurality of slots
extending thereacross, A solid portion is formed between adjacent pairs of the plurality of slots.
[0042| A metering gate is translatablv positioned adjacent to the opening of the hopper. An actuator
is connected to the metering gate so as to move the metering gate between a closed position and an
open position, The closed position is suitable for retaining the proppant in the hopper. The open
position is suitable for selectively releasing proppant from the hopper. The metering gate also has
an inverted.V-shaped configuration that is in mating relationship with the invertedV-shaped opening
of the hopper. The metering gate has a plurality of slots extending thereacross with adjacent pairs
of the plurality of slots of the metering gate having a solid portion therebetween. The solid portions
of the metering gate are aligned with the plurality of slots of the opening of the hopper when the
metering iate is in the closed position. The plurality of slots of the metering gate are aligned with
a plurality of slots of the opening of the hopper when the metering gate isin the open position.
j0043J The conveyor has a portion extending otwardly beyond an end of the frame. The conveyor
is suitable for discharging the proppant to a location outwardly of the frame. This portion of the
conveyor angles upwardly beyond the end of the f&ame. A chute is positioned adjacent an end of the
conveyor. The chute is directable toward a desired location.
100441 The frame has at least a pair of pin connectors extending upwardly from the surface of the
frame. The pin connectors are suitable fbr engaging respective receptacles formed in the container.
 The fratne has at least a pair of wheels mounted thereto. The pair ofwheels are suitable for allowing
the frame to move along an underlying surface. The frame also has a hitch at an end thereof This
hitch is suitable for connecting the frame to a vehicle.
100451 This foregoing section is intended to describe, with particularity, the preferred embodiments
of the present invention. It is understood that modifications to these preferred embodiments can be
made within the scope of the present invention. As such, this section should notbe construed, in any
way, as limiting of the true scope of the present invention. The present invention should only be
limited by the following claims and their legal equivalents,
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00461 FIGURE 1is a perspective view ofthe container in accordance with the preferred embodiment
of the present invention.
                                                    -.

100471 FIGURE 2 is a side elevational view of the container in accordance with the preferred
embodiment of the present invention.
[0048j FIGURE 3 is a cross-sectional view showing the container of the preferred embodiment of
the present invention.
  00491 FIGURE 4 is a plan viewshowing the interior of the container of the preferred embodiment
of the present invention,
[00501 FIGURE 5 is an isolated end view showing the support structure ofthe system ofthe preferred
embodi ment of the present invention
100511 FIGURE 6 is a plan view of the support structure of the system of the present inventionm
100521 FIGURE 7 is an end view showing the placement of the container upon the support structure
in accordance with the prerred embodimient of the system of the present lilventiot
[0053] FIGURESis a side view of the container as place on the support structure in accordance with
the preferred embodiment of the system of the present invention.
100541 FIGURE 9 is a side elevational view showing a phirality of containers as placed upon the
support structure in accordance with the system of the preferred embodiment ofthe present invention.
[0055 FIGURE 10 is a plan view showing a plurality of containers as placed upon the support
structure in accordance with the preferred embodiment of the system of the present invention.
                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00561 Referring to FIGURE 1, there is shown the container 10 in accordance with the preferred
enibodi-ment of the present invention, The container 10 is in the nature ofa box 12 hav Mg an exterior
frame 14. The box 12 includes atop 16, a bottom 18, an end wall 20 and a side wall 22. The side
wall 24 is opposite to the side wall 22. There also an end wall 26 that is opposite to that of end wall
20. An inlet 28 is formed through the top 16 of the box I 2. A hatch 30 is reniovably or hingedly
affixed over the inlet 28 so as to allow proppant to be introduced into the interior volume of the
container 10.
 0057 In FIGURE 1 it can be seen that the frame 14 extends generally around the exterior of the end
walls 20 and 26 and over the side walls 22 and 24, As suh, as will be described hereinafter, there
is a funine -shaped bottont of the container that has exterior suLrfaces exposed through the frame 14.
During the course of international shipment, it is important to avoid closed spaces within such a
                                                   12-

container. As such, the exposure of the surfaces through the openings 32 at the bottom of the frame
 14 will allow inspectors to have visual access to the areas adjacent to this funnel-shaped area.
[0058 As can be seen in FIGURE 2. the container 10 is illustnated as having the top 16 and the
bottom 18. The frame 14 provides structural support for the container 10 and generally surrounds the
exterior ofthe container. The frame is formed of aplurality of vertical bars that extend so as to form
a cage-like configuration around the walls 20, 22, 24 and 26, The bottom.8is generally of a planar
shape so that the bottom 18 can be placed upon the support structure (to be described hereinafter).
Importantly, the area 32 shows that the funnel-shaped portion 34 is exposed through the openings
of the frame 14, As such, there will be no closed or sealed areas within the interior of the container
 10. The hatch 30 is positioned over the inlet 28 at the top 16 of the container 10. As a result, the
proppant can be introduced through the inlet 28 when the hatch 30 is opened so as to fill the interior
volume of the container 10. The funnel-shaped area 34 defines an outlet 36 located at the bottom 1.8
of the container 1.0.
[00591 As can be seen in FIGURES 1 and 2. the container 10 is a ten-foot ISO container. In
accordance with standard ISO terminology, this means that the container has a length of ten feet. a
 vidth of eight feet and a height of 8.5 feet. The height can also be 9.5 feet. This configuration
allows between 43,000 and 48,000 pounds of proppant to be introduced into the interior volume of
the container.
[00601 FIGURE3 shows a partial cross-sectional view of the container 10. It can be seen that the
container 10 has an interior volume 38. The outlet 36 is formed adjacent to the bottom 18 of the
container 10, A first ramp 40 will extend from the end wall 20 to the outlet 36. A second ramp 42
will extend from the end wail 22 to the outlet 36. The ramps 40 and 42 will serve to funnel the
proppant that is retained within the interior volume 38 of the container 10 toward the outlet 36.
importantly, a gate 44 is positioned within a track 46 located at the bottom 18 of the container 10.
The gate 44 is in the nature of flat plate which, as shown in FIGURE 3 covers the outlet 36. The
gate 44 includes a pin 48 (in the nature of king bolt) that extends outwardly from the gate 44. When
an actuator is connected to the pin 48, it can move the gate 4-4 tiom the position closing the outlet
36 to a position opening the outlet 36 Arrow 50 shows the movement of the gate 44 between these
positions. Since the gate 44 has a width that generally corresponds to the size of the outlet 36, the
                                                  -13-

gate 44 will only need to move for a small amount of travel so as to move the gate 44 to the open
positions.
[00611 FIGURE 4 is an interior view of the container 10. As can be seen, the first ramp 40 will
extend from the end wall 20 to the outlet 36. The second ramp 42 extends from the end wal 26 to
the outlet 36. A third ramp 52 will extend from the side wall 22 to the outlet 36. Another ramp 54
will extend from the side wall 24 to the outlet 36. As such, the ramps 40, 42, 52 and 54 form the
funnel-like shape so that the proppant that is received within the interior volume 38 of the container
10 can flow free downwardly toward the outlet 36.
100621 In FIGURE 4, it can be seen that the gate 44 is positioned within the track 46. FIGURE 4
shows the gate 44 in its closed position. An actuator can be used so as to move the gate 44 from the
position shown in FIGURE 4 in a direction toward either the side wall 22 or the side vall 24. Pins
48 and 58 are illustrated as extending outwardly of the sides of the gate 44. As such, a suitable
actuator, such as a hydraulic piston-and-cylinder arrangement, can be connected to these pins 48
and/or 50 so as to achieve the requisite movement ofthe gate 44 from the closed position to the open
position.
[00631 FIGURE 5 is an end view showing the support structure 60 as used in the proppant discharge
system of the present invention. The support structure 60 has aframe 62 which forms a top surface
64. a bottom surface 66, and sides 68 and 70. The top 64 of the frame 62 has asurface upon which
the container 10 can be placed. Suitable pin connections 72 and 74 extend upwardly from the top
surface 64 so as to engage corresponding receptacles on the container 10. These pins 72 and 74 can
be utilized so as to assure that the container 10 is properly positioned upon the support structure 60.
100641 A receptacle 76 is positioned at or adjacent to the top surface 64. The actuator 78 is affixed
to thei ame 62 and extends to the receptacle 76. As can be seen, the receptacle 76 has a slot forced
in the top end thereof The slot of the receptacle 76 is suitable for receiving one of the pins 48 and
58 of the gate 44 of the container 10. Once the receptacle 76 receives the pin 48 therein, the actuator
78 can be actuated so as to move the receptacle (and its received pin) fomi the first position 80 to a
second position 82. When the receptacle 82 (along with the pin received therein) is moved to the
second position 82, the gate 44 will be opened so that the proppant can be discharged through the
outlet 36 of the container to, Since pins 48 and 58 are symmetrically placed, and since the container
                                                   -14-

10 is rather symmetrical, the support structure 60 is particularly adapted to the variety of orientations
with the container 10 can be placed upon the top surface 64.
[0065j inFIGURE 5, it can be seen that there is a hopper 84 that is positioned below the top surface
64, Hopper 84 serves to receive a portion of the proppant as discharged through the outlet 36 of the
container 10 when the gate 44 is in the open position As such, the hopper 84 can be utilized so as
to properly meter the proppant onto the conveyor 86. Conveyor 86 is located below the opening 88
of the hopper 84.
[00661 As can be seen in FIGURE 5 hopper 84 has an opening 88 of a general] inverted V-shaped
configuration There is a metering gate 90 that is mated with the opening 88 and also has a V-shaped
configuration The metering gate 90 can be moved a small distance so as to allow for the selected
and controlled discharge of proppant from the hopper 84 onto the conveyor 86.
[0067j FIGURE 6 shows the interior of the hopper 84. Hopper 84 intudes side walls 92 and 94 and
end walls 96 and 98. The walls 92, 94, 96 and 98 are formed into a funnel-like shape so as to move
the proppant downwardly toward the metering gate 90. In FIGURE 6, it can be seen that the opening
88 of the hopper 84 has a plurality of slots formed therein. Similarly, the metering gate 90 has a
plurality of slots formed therethrough. The structures between the slots is solid. As such, when the
slots of the metering gate 90 are aligned with the slots of the opening 88, then proppant can be
discharged onto the underlying conveyor 86         A small movement of the metering gate 90 in one
direction or another, vill block the flow of the proppant through the slots of the opening 88 of hopper
84. As such, very small actuators 100 and 102 can be used so as to achieve the proper metering of
the proppant onto the conveyor. If a small flow rate of proppant is desired, then the actuators 100 and
102 willnove the metering gate 90 only a small distance. If a greater flow rate is required, then the
actuators 100 and 102 will move the metering gate 90 so that the slots of the metering gate 90 fully
correspond with the slots of the opening 88 so as to achieve a maximum flow of proppant from the
hopper 84 down to the conveyor.
[00681 FIGURE 7 shows the container 10 as placed upon the top surface 64 of the support structure
60. In normal use, a forklift can be utilized so as to properly position the container 10 in a proper
position upon the pins 72 and 74 of the support structure 60. Initially, the gate 44 of the container
10 will be closed Additionally, the metering gate 90 can also be closed. When the container 10 is
                                                   -15-_

properly positioned, the gate 44 can be moved to an open position so that the proppant is discharged
into the hopper 84, The hopper 84 can then be filled with proppant. When it is desired to move the
proppant from the hopper 84, along the conveyor, to the desired destination, then the metering gate
90 can be opened so as to achieve the desired flow rate of proppant through the opening 88 of the
hopper 84.
100691 FIGURE 8 shows a side view in. which the container 10 is placed upon the top surface 64 of
the support structure 60. The conveyor 86 is illustrated as extending longtudinally. As such, when
the proppant passes through the nietering gate 90 associated with the hopper 84. any proppant within
the interior volume 38 of the container 10 can be delivered, in a controlled manner onto the
con vevor.
[0070] FIGURE 9 is an illustration of containers 110, i12, 114 and 116 as placed upon the support
structure I 18 The support structure I18 has a sufficient length so as to accommodate the containers
  S10, 112. 114 and i 16. It can be seen that the conveyor 120 is arranged beneath the top surface of
the support structure 118 and below the respective hoppers 122, 124, 126 and 128 below the
respective containers 110, 112, 114 and 116. The conveyor 120 is an endless conveyor that is
suitably wound around sheaves and idlers so as to travel a desired path. The proppant that is
discharged from the containers 110, 112, 114 and 116 is discharged onto the conveyor 120 so as to
travel therealong and alongupwardly extending section 130 The end 132 of the conveyor 120 will
open to a chute 134 The chute 134 can be directed toward the desired purposes at the fracturing site.
As such, the array of containers 110, 112, 114 and 116 can be configured so as to replace existing
storage facilities at the fracturing site. The support structure 118, along with the conveyor 120, can
be easily transportable by a truck upon a roadway because ofthe use of the wheels 136. The forward
end 133 can be suitably connected to a truck so as to allow for the easy transport of the system of the
present invention.
100711 FIGURE 10 illustrates the placement of the containers 110, 112, 114 and 116 upon the
support structure 18 The end 138 includes a suitable hitch connection for attachment to a truek.
The conveyor 120 extends below the containers I10, 112, 114 and 116 so as to deliver the proppant
to the chute 134. FIGURE 10 illustrates that the chute 134 is suitably pivotable in cooperation with
the end 132 of the conveyor 120 so as to allow for the controlled and directed discharge of the
                                                   16-

proppant to the desired location.
100721 The container 1.0 ofthe present invention .ismanufactured as asingle unit. The gate 44 ofthe
container 10 is specifically engineered to align with the actuator 70 located on the con vexing system.
The actuator is hydranlically controlled and accepts the pin 48 which is attached to the gate 44.
When the actuator '0 is activated the gate 44 moves horizontally so as to allow for the discharge of
proppant therefrom.
[00731 The container of the present invention can be specifically applied for transport via rail. In
particular, the railcars can be designed so as to accommodate up to four containers 10. As such, the
railcar can carry approximately 180,000 pounds of proppant when the four containers are placed on
the railcar. The railcar can be similar to current inter-modal railcars that carry twenty foot, forty foot
and fifty'-three foot inLt-nodal containers. The railcar would include typical intermodal load-locks
which are evenly spaced down to chassis of the railcar. The container should be constricted of
materials wide enough to keep the overall loaded weight of the container under currently regulated
railroad weight guidelines. Additionally it must be strong enough to bear the load of the loaded
container This development allows sand mines to load proppant directly into a container 10 in order
to speed up the loading process. It also eliminates the need to build a silo storage at the nine site,
Once the container arrives at its designated location or region.      ans-load processes to pneumatc
trailers, silos or flat storage, are thus eliminated.
[00741 The present In mention is an improved delivery system that can be used at the well-site. The
support structure 60 includes a fabricated steel frame upon which multiple containers can be
positioned. The containers lock into receptacles that secure the containers to the frame. The
conai.ner will then sit above a conveying system that delivets the proppan.t.fron. the container as the
gate is opened to a master-conveying belt. The cradle is outfitted with a hydraulic systemwhich can
control the opening and closing ofthe gates. The containers of the present invention can be combined
as an attachment or cartridge compatible with existing devices known as SAND KINGS (TM),
SAND CHIEFS (TM) and SAND DRAGONS (TM). By replacing existing hoppers on these devices
with the removable containers of the present invention, even greater efficiencies can be attained in
the proppant de lively process
[00751 The conveying system ofthe present invention is an alternative iethod ofdeliveringproppant
                                                    -17-

from the container to the blender belt for the mixing unit once delivered to the well-site. The
conveying system of the present invention provides all of the functionality commonly seen in the
SAND MASTER (TM), SAND KING (TM), SAND DRAGON(TM) SAND MOVE (TM), etc. As
such, the present invention allows the flow of sand to be metered onto the conveyor belt through a
hydraulic system of flow gates. The container is first lifted into position onto the support structure.
The bottom flow gate is received by the receptacle of the hydraulic actuator so as to create a lock
between the pin of the gate and the hydratdic system. The hydaulic system then opens the flow gate
and the proppant so as to gravity-feed into a hopper located on the support structure. Another set of
flow gates associated with the hopper system are then opened by way of another hydraulic system.
This allows the proppant to be metered and to flow onto a conveyor belt. The conveyor belt can then
deliver the proppant to the blender or the T-Belt. The proppant can then be ixed with other
materials in the blender.
100761 Currently, expensive pneumatic bulk trucks are utilized in the delivery ofproppant to a well
site. Once on-site, the trucker employs a power take-off unit to "blow" the sand into the sand storage
devices. This delivery often takes over one (1) hour to complete. By delivering sand to the well in
the ten- foot containers ofthe present invention, the use of expensive pieces of specialized equipment
are eliminated, The container can ride on a standard flatbed, step-deck, low-boy, or other more
commonly-used trailer As such, the process of the present invention is able to tap into a much larger
universe of available trucking capacity, This can reduce the transportaon coss to the well While
pneumatic trailer deliveries are priced in "round trip" miles. the deliveryof the container of the
present invention by a more common piece of equipment (capable of getting a "back-haul")
significantly reduces the overall transportation cost As an example, there is a great need for parts,
tools and other wellhead equipment to be taken off t     weltite for repair or return to a manufacturer
or rental company.    The flatbed trailer now einpty has the ability to accept that load while it is on
site rather than calling in another trucking company to provide that service. The reduced need for
"hot-shot" service is another significant value to the service company andultimately the exploration
and production company.
[00771 In terms of returning empty containers to the sand distribution facilities, a total of four (4)
empty containers can be returned by a single flatbed trailer. This provides a 4:1 level of efficiency
                                                   -18-

in removing the containers from the well-site. Additionally, a forty foot container chassis will be
used in the movement of both empty and fil containers. The support structure, just like the
containers, can be delivered to the well-site by a typical flatbed truck. The support structure could
be towed via truck to the siteinmnianner similar to any other trailer.
100781 Another important advantage to the present invention is the small footprint that the ten-foot
ISO containers of the present invention occupy relative to the capacity of sand that they can store.
When the containers are stacked three high, the containers can store approximately 135,000 pounds
in a footprint of eighty square feet. The available space at the vellhead, and in potential proppant
trans-loading facilities, can be extremely limited. As such, the process of the present invention
minimizes the footprint that is required for a given amount of proppant at such a location.
[00791 Since environmenmal and safety concerns surrounding well-site operations is becoming an
increasing concem, the present invention minmizes the amount ofparticulate matter that is released
into the air. Proppant is currently delivered to the frac site via pneumatic trailers. Pneumatic pressure
is used to pressurize the trailer and then "blow" the material into a sand storage unit. This process
creates an immense amount of particulate matter than can then be inhaled by personnel at the fac
         ddtinalywhile blowing the sand into the sand storage facility hh adsoaefclt
site. sit.
      Adtoalt                                                                    adsoaefclt ns       is
vent the pressurized air to the atmosphere; This creates an even greater exposure to particulate
matter. The constant need to take delivery ofproppant on-site creates a constant environment of dust
and small particles inthe air. Since the present invention eliminates pneumatic deliveries the process
of the present invention significantly reduces the amount of particulate matter on the frac-sie. The
gravity-fe ed delivery method from the container to the blender greatly improves the safety of we1I-site
personnel
[OO80 The present invention also serves to reduce trucking emissions by reducing the amount of
trucks that are being used or waiting. The safety at the wellhead is improved by reducing such truck
traffic.
[0081J The foregoing disclosure and description of the invention is illustrative and explanatory
thereof Various changes in the details of the illustrated construction, or in the steps of the described
method, can be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the tMe spirit
of the invention. The present invention should only be limited by the following claims and their legal
                                                   -19-

equivalents.
             -20O

CLAIMS:
1.      A method of transporting large amounts of proppant, the method comprising:
        positioning one or more structurally supported proppant containers having an
outlet in each of the one or more containers on a separate support structure having a
plurality of mounting locations arranged along a length of the separate support structure
when the separate support structure is positioned at a fracturing site, the separate support
structure being spaced apart from and above a surface to direct the large amounts of
proppant away from the one or more containers when the large amounts of proppant is
gravity-fed from the one or more containers, through the separate support structure and
onto the surface;
        moving a gate, via an actuator, positioned proximate at least one of the outlets of
the one or more containers between an open position and a closed position to enable the
large amounts of proppant to discharge from the container and onto the surface, the
proppant flowing along one or more ramps that funnel the large amounts of proppant
toward the outlets of the one or more containers, the ramps extending from the walls of
the one or more containers to the outlet and being supported by one or more ramp
supports;
        receiving the proppant on the surface, a top surface of the support structure being
arranged between the one or more containers and the surface to enable loading,
emptying, and removal of individual containers of the one or more containers in a
continuous loading and emptying operation of the remaining containers of the one or more
containers;
        positioning the plurality of containers in a corresponding side-by-side configuration
to align the corresponding containers of the one or more containers within cradles
arranged on the support structure along a portion of a length of the support structure; and
        transporting the large amounts of proppant along the surface to a well site in close
proximately to a fracturing site.
2.      The method of claim 2, comprising locking the one or more containers into
receptacles that secure the one or more containers to the support structure.
                                               21

3.     The method of claim 2, comprising positioning a metering gate proximate an
opening of a plurality of hoppers, the metering gate being moveable between an open
position and closed position via one or more actuators to enable the large amounts of
proppant to discharge from the hopper and onto the surface when the metering gate is
in the open position.
4.     The method of claim 2, comprising a plurality of hoppers positioned between the
one or more containers and a conveyor, the top surface of the support structure being
arranged between the one or more containers and the plurality of hoppers each hopper
of the plurality of hoppers aligned with a corresponding overlying container of the one or
more containers.
5.     The method of claim 2, comprising:
       dispensing the large amounts of proppant from a first container of the one or more
containers onto the conveyor;
       emptying the large amounts of proppant from the first container;
       dispensing the large amounts of proppant from a second container of the one or
more containers; and
        removing the first container from the support structure as the large amounts of
proppant is dispensed from the second container.
6.     The method of claim 2, wherein the surface comprises a conveyor and the
method further comprises conveying the large amounts of proppant on the conveyor
away from the one or more containers, the conveyor conveying the large amounts of
proppant along an upwardly extending section and into a chute located at an end of the
conveyor and further toward a desired location at the fracturing site.
OREN TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P39798AU02
                                             22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
