 A vegetation support element (1) able to support vegetation in a floating position on or
above a fluid medium, comprising, a body portion (4) which is substantially hollow, which
body portion (4) has at least one aperture (6) therethrough from an upper surface (7), to a
lower surface (8), the at least one aperture (6) to allow contact of the vegetation with the
fluid medium, and at least one edge portion (9), peripheral to the body portion (4), the edge
portion (9) adapted to allow engagement (1) of the element with a neighbouring element,
wherein the element (1) can support the vegetation on or above the fluid medium to allow
the vegetation to contact the fluid medium and form a floating wetland.

                                 1/18
                                          /
                                         /
                 ii>          2)
                                      I
                '<7'    1
                   I'
                 /
              /
P      //                              w
     /
  4
       7
    /
           -J
       /            \
      5)
          ~Ls         /
                          K
                        4
                              /
                            4

               1/18
                    -~
-q    yK0~,) ~         I
     /'7
   )j~
                       -o
         ~      ~
           -P.

3032818S9
DSC509792AUPR
             IMPROVEMENTS IN, OR RELATING TO, VEGETATION SUPPORT
             TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates to vegetation support.
       5
             In particular, though not solely, the present invention is directed to a floating raft to support
             vegetation on a fluid, for example to form a floating wetland.
             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     10      Wetlands are receiving increasing recognition for their ability to remove waste from water
             in lakes and streams. The mass of roots and material creates a substantial surface area
             for capturing, retaining and converting waste materials in the water stream.
             Increasingly floating wetlands are being manufactured to pre-treat waste water streams
     15      before release into the general environment, or to waste water. Such manufactured
            wetlands also, when floating in a lake like location, also mitigate erosion of the
             surrounding shore as well as improving water quality.
            To date several solutions have been used.
    20
             Some systems use plants in a floating container which is housed in another trough like
             container through which the waste water is circulated. Such an example is shown in US
             5,337,516. This is a more constructed system, housed next to, but not on, the waste
            water body and can require manufacture of troughs and flow control systems and plant
    25      with their associated cost and environmental impact. Such systems also cannot be easily
             located in existing water ways to help improve their environmental status, for example in
             lakes that have high eutrophication states.
            Another solution is to use a mesh material and mount vegetation to this. The mesh is
    30      attached to frames that in turn float or have floats attached. The roots of the vegetation
            then grow down through the mesh into the water. The plants then can help purify and
            cleanse the water. However this has the drawback of being relatively fragile, may prove
            difficult for the roots and plants to push through to the water below, and can degrade and
            tear over time. Such systems are susceptible to wind and wave action.
    35

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                              2
             Other systems rely on plants that themselves float and then use a mesh or similar matrix
             to hold the plants together at least initially until they intertwine to hold themselves
             together. Again such systems are fragile and can easily fragment due to degradation and
             wind and wave action.
      5
             Fragmenting of the wetland is undesirable for several reasons. If there is further water
             treatment or control facilities, for example a weir or piping, the fragments can become
             trapped and block the control apparatus. Further, fragmentation will result in parts of the
             wetland moving into other areas, which may be undesirable because of the use of that
     10      area, or may pose a hazard to users of the water area. A fragment also may become
             overwhelmed by water, especially when the plant is not a floating one, and sink. The
             cleansing effect of the plant is then lost. The sunk plant may then add to the pollution of
             that water body.
     15      In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
             external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
             providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
             otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission
            that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
    20      form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
             It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved waterborne vegetation
            support or to overcome the above shortcomings or address the above desiderata, or to at
            least provide the public with a useful choice.
    25
            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             In a first aspect the present invention consists in a vegetation support element able to
            support vegetation in a floating disposition on or above a fluid medium, comprising or
            including,
    30                A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at least one
            aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface thereof, said at
            least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid medium,
                      At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
            adapted to allow engagement of said element with a neighbouring element,
    35      wherein said element can support said vegetation on or above said fluid medium to allow
            said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating wetland.

3032818S89
DSC509792AUPR
                                                             3
             Preferably said body portion comprises at least one tethering point.
             Preferably said body portion is a rigid structure.
      5
             Preferably said at least one aperture can receive and support vegetation, directly or
             indirectly.
             Preferably said vegetation can at least in part be supported on or by said upper surface.
     10
             Preferably said body portion is substantially planar in plan form.
             Preferably said body portion is polygonal in plan form.
    15       Preferably said body portion is rectilinear in plan form.
             Preferably said at least one edge portion allows an articulated join to said neighbouring
             element.
    20       Preferably said articulated join is about an axis parallel to said upper and/or lower
             surfaces.
             Alternatively said articulated join can move in multiple axes.
    25       Preferably said articulated join is a hinge with at least one selectively removable pin on
             said axis.
             Preferably said at least one edge portion has at least one extension therefrom to receive a
             like extension from an edge portion of said neighbouring element, and said pin passing
    30       through said extensions forms said hinge.
             Preferably said extension from said vegetation support element has an extension either
            side of it from said neighbouring element.
    35      Alternatively said articulated join is formed from at least one flexible connector between
            said vegetation support element and said neighbouring element.

3032S1889
DSC$09792AUPR
                                                            4
              Preferably there are two said at least one flexible connectors between said vegetation
             support element and said neighbouring element.
       5     Preferably said at least one flexible connector has two ends, each end to be received into
             a mating portion on the said vegetation support element or said neighbouring element.
             Preferably said mating portion is a recess in said body portion of said vegetation support
             element.
     10
             Preferably there are multiple said apertures through said body.
             Preferably said apertures can receive a container that at least in part holds or supports
             said vegetation.
    15
             Preferably said apertures are shaped so as to be complimentary to an exterior periphery
             of said container.
             Preferably said apertures are circular in plan form.
    20
             Preferably said neighbouring element is a like vegetation support element.
             Alternatively said neighbouring element is another element, different to said vegetation
             support element.
    25
             Preferably said vegetation support elements can be joined to further similar vegetation
             support elements by their said edge portions to form a floating raft to support said
             vegetation in a scalable said floating wetland.
    30       Preferably said support element has sufficient floatation to support its own weight as well
             as the weight of said vegetation located thereon.
                     In a further aspect the present invention may be said to consist in an array of
            vegetation support elements supporting vegetation in a floating disposition on or above
    35      a fluid medium, each said element comprising or including,
                     A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at least one

303283889
DSCS09792AUPR
                                                            5
             aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface thereof, said at
             least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid medium,
                     At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
             adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring
       5     element,
            wherein said elements support said vegetation on or above said fluid medium to allow
             said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating wetland.
                     In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a
     10     floating wetland, where vegetation of said wetland is supported on water by at least one
             or more support elements, said support elements comprising or including,
                     A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at least one
             aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface thereof, said at
             least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid medium,
    15               At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
            adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring
            element,
            wherein said elements support said vegetation on or above said fluid medium to allow
            said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form said floating wetland.
    20
             in yet another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a method of
            providing a floating wetland, comprising or including the steps of,
                     Providing a support element which at least in part can float, said support element
            having,
    25                       A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at
                     least one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface
                     thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid
                     medium,
                             At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
    30               adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring
                     element,
                     Locating vegetation onto said support element,
                     Connecting a plurality of supporting elements together along edge portions to
            produce a raft,
    35      wherein said raft can support said vegetation on or above said fluid medium to allow said
            vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating wetland.

3032818899
DSC509792AUPR
                                                             6
             Preferably said support element has sufficient floatation to support its own weight as well
             as the weight of said vegetation located thereon.
      5      Preferably said support elements are connected to each other on said fluid medium.
             Alternatively said support elements are connected to each other on land and then located
             on said fluid medium.
    10       Alternatively pluralities of said support elements are connected to each other on land and
             are then connected to further pluralities of support elements on said fluid medium.
             In yet another aspect still the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a kit of
             parts to produce a floating wetland, comprising or including,
    15               At least one support element, adapted to support vegetation in a floating
             disposition on or above a fluid medium, said support element having,
                              A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at
                     least one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface
                     thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid
    20               medium,
                              At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
                     adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring
                     element,
                              At least one connector to allow engagement of said element to said like or
    25               differing neighbouring element,
             said elements supporting said vegetation on or above said fluid medium to allow said
             vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating wetland.
             Preferably said kit contains a plurality of said support elements.
    30
             Preferably said kit contains a plurality of said connectors.
             Preferably said connectors are pins.
   35       Alternatively said connectors are flexible connectors.

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                            7
             Preferably said kit container said vegetation for each support element.
             Preferably said kit contains nutrients for said vegetation.
      5      In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a vegetation
             support element as herein described with reference to any one or more of the
             accompanying drawings.
             In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in an array of
    10       vegetation support elements as herein described with reference to any one or more of
             the accompanying drawings.
             In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a floating
             wetland as herein described with reference to any one or more of the accompanying
    15       drawings.
             In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a method of
             providing a floating wetland as herein described with reference to any one or more of
             the accompanying drawings.
    20
             In another aspect the present invention may be said to broadly consist in a kit of parts to
             produce a floating wetland as herein described with reference to any one or more of the
             accompanying drawings.
    25       As used herein the term fluid for support or to float the support element means water, for
             example in a lake, pond, stream or similar, whether man-made or natural. It also may
             refer to other fluids where having a floating supported plant life, or similar, is desirable.
             As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
    30
             As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of the noun.
             The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in part of".
             When interpreting statements in this specification which include that term, the features,
    35       prefaced by that term in each statement, all need to be present, but other features can

303281889
DSCS09792AUPR
                                                              8
             also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to be interpreted
             in the same manner.
             It is intended that reference to a range of numbers disclosed herein (for example, 1 to 10)
      5      also incorporates reference to all rational numbers within that range (for example, 1, 1.1,
             2, 3, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and also any range of rational numbers within that
             range (for example, 2 to 8, 1.5 to 5.5 and 3.1 to 4.7).
             The entire disclosures of all applications, patents and publications, cited above and below,
    10       if any, are hereby incorporated by reference.
             To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction
             and widely differing embodiments and application of the invention will suggest themselves
            without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
             disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not intended to be in
    15       any sense limiting.
             Other aspects of the invention may become apparent from the following description which
             is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    20       Preferred forms of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
            accompanying drawings in which;
             Figure 1         Shows a preferred form of the support element of the present invention in
                              isometric view,
    25
            Figure 2         shows a plan elevation of the support element in Figure 1,
            Figure 3         shows a front elevation of the support element in Figure 1,
    30      Figure 4         shows a left hand end elevation of the support element in Figure 1,
            Figure 5         shows a rear elevation of the support element in Figure 1,
            Figure 6         shows a right hand end elevation of the support element in Figure 1,
    35
            Figure 7         shows a bottom elevation of the support element in Figure 1,

303281889
DSC59792AUPR
                                                      9
            Figure 8  shows a closer of view of Figure 2 including location of vegetation and
                      vegetation containers,
      5     Figure 9  shows several support elements joined to form an array to then form a
                      floating wetland,
            Figure 10 is a close-up of the articulated join between elements in Figure 9,
     10     Figure 11 is an exploded view of the articulated join shown in Figure 10,
            Figure 12 shows a cross section along line AA of Figure 2,
            Figure 13 shows a fluid medium level view of a floating wetland formed on the support
     15               element,
            Figure 14 shows a second preferred form of the present invention with a different
                      linking form in top isometric view,
    20      Figure 15 shows a variation of a connector for linking elements for example of Figure
                       14 in top isometric view, and associated hardware,
            Figure 16 shows a variation of the connector in Figure 15 for linking elements for
                      example of Figure 14 in top isometric view, and associated hardware,
    25
            Figure 17 shows the variation of Figure 14 at (a) in left hand elevation, (b) in plan
                      view, (c) in right hand elevation, (d) end view, (e) in bottom view, and (f) in
                      top isometric view,
    30     Figure 18  shows the view of Figure 17(b),
           Figure 19  shows cross section AA of Figure 18,
           Figure 20  shows cross section BB of Figure 18,
    35
           Figure 21  shows a plan view of two support elements of the second preferred form
                      linked by one form of connector,
           Figure 22  shows the array of Figure 21 in isometric view,
    40
           Figure 23  shows cross section CC of Figure 21,

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                           10
             Figure 24       shows detail D from Figure 23,
             Figure 25       shows a plan view of two support elements of the second preferred form
      5                      linked by another form of connector,
             Figure 26       shows the array of Figure 25 in isometric view,
             Figure 27       shows cross section FF of Figure 25, and
    10
             Figure 28       shows detail G from Figure 27.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            A first preferred embodiment will now be described with reference to Figures 1 through 13.
    15
            A support element 1 as shown in Figure 1 has a body portion 4 which has an upper
             surface 7 and a lower surface 8 (shown in Figure 3). The body portion is bounded on at
             least one, but in the preferred embodiment (as shown) all sides, by edge portions 9. The
             edge portion is configured to allow joining with a neighbouring element 10, whether the
    20      same or of differing configuration.
             In the preferred form the edge portion 9 for joining has at least one extension 17. This
            engages with complimentary like extensions 18 on neighbouring elements 10. As the
            support element 1 shown will form part of an array 20, shown for example in Figure 9,
    25      then there are like extensions 18 on opposing edge portions 9. Shown in Figure 9 these
            extensions 17 are complimentary on neighbouring elements. Each of the extensions 17
            and 18 includes a pin aperture 21 for a pin 16 to pass through and join the extensions 17
            to form a hinge 15 (shown later).
    30       In the preferred form the support element 1 has a rectilineal plan form, such as square as
            shown. In other forms it could take any convenient polygonal form. Preferred forms will
            be those that allow articulation about the joining axes 14 and that will not lock the
            elements 1 rotatively about axis 14 relative to each other. However, in other forms this
            may be allowed, for example where there is likely to be little or no relative articulation.
   35       Preferred plan forms will also allow close nesting of neighbouring elements 1 and their
            may or may not be additional apertures formed between neighbouring arrayed elements.

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                           11
            Through the body portion 4 from the upper surface 7 through to the lower surface 7 there
             is at least one, and preferably many apertures 6. These allow for passage through the
             body portion 4 from the upper surface 7 to the lower surface 8 and the fluid medium 22
             below of the roots and other portions of the vegetation 2, as shown in Figure 8.
       5
             In the preferred form the body portion is hollow in cross section as shown in Figure 12.
            Such a form may be made in a number of known ways, for example injection moulding, or
            most preferably by roto-moulding. The hollow portion is preferably sealed and contains air
            or other floatation material (and may be open if other contained or solid floatation material
     10     is present) to allow the element I to float on the fluid medium. In the preferred
            embodiment the body portion is formed from a UV stabilised material, for example a
            rubber or plastics material.
            The element 1 has tethering points 12 to allow for connections to hold it in place, or allow
     15     its transportation, for example towing a raft of elements 1 as an array on water.
            A further preferred form of the present invention support element 1 is shown in Figures 14
            through 28 which uses a connector 25 which is flexible to form the articulated join 13
            between neighbouring elements 1. This form of the invention allows for relative greater
    20      movement of the elements and more degrees of freedom. This may be desirable for
            example where there is greater wave action.
            In the preferred form the connectors 25 as shown are of dog-bone shape as shown in
            Figure 15 in thick form, and Figure 16 in thin form. In this form each end 27 is
    25      complimentary with a mating portion 28 as a recess 29 in the edge portions 9 of the
            support element 1. Fasteners 30 then fit through apertures in the connector 25 and
            support element 1 as shown in Figure 24 for the thick connector 25 and Figure 28 for a
            thin connector 25. In the preferred form fasteners 30 are a threaded fastener and nut with
            washers as shown. The complimentary recess 29 has a smaller entrance in the horizontal
    30      direction that the greatest width of the head of the connector 25. In this way the load, fro
            example in the horiztonal direction, is spread over the recess as well as the fastener
            connection in the element. This gives the element a greater service life by reducing the
            likelihood of breakage.
    35      The connectors 25 are preferably flexible and the stiffness of the articulated join 13 can be
            varied by adjusting the stiffness of the connector 25, for example using thick or thin as

3032818S9
DSC509792AUPR
                                                            12
             shown. In one preferred form of the present invention the connector 25 is made from a
             UV stabilised material for example rubber or similar flexible material. As the material is
             relatively flexible it adds degrees of freedom, not only about axis 14, but allows horizontal
             and vertical shearing, and extension and contraction of neighbouring elements as well as
       5    torsion perpendicular to the axis 14.
            Again the element 1 has tethering points 12 and apertures 6 as shown in Figure 17 and is
             hollow as shown in Figures 19 and 20, for the same purposes as earlier described.
     10     An array 20 of elements 1 is shown in Figures 21 through 23 and 25 through 27.
            This further preferred form can be used in a similar way to the earlier form described.
            The method of use of the present forms of the invention will now be described. The
     15     vegetation 2 can be introduced to the support element 1 in a number of ways. It may for
            example be grown to a mature or partially mature state in a container and then the
            container or similar 19 may be located on the support element 1, for example into the
            aperture 6 as shown in Figure 8. The container 19 may remain, or may be degradable,
            preferably at a rate which will continue to support the vegetation 2 until it has secured a
    20      hold on the element 1. In other forms the vegetation may be located in place (in a
            container 19 or otherwise) on the element in an immature form and allowed to grow.
            The vegetation 2 may alternatively be grown offsite on the element 1 and then transferred
            to the fluid medium and the elements 1 assembled into the array 20. Alternatively the
    25      vegetation 2 may be simply located on the upper surface 7 and allowed to grow. In some
            forms the upper and/or lower surfaces 7 and 8 may be textured. This may be done to
            increase purchase of the vegetation on the element 1, increase surface area for beneficial
            organisms such as microbes, and bacteria, or provide location to store water and
            nutrients.
    30
            The apertures 6 are contoured and sized to match and support the selected vegetation,
            for example smaller holes may be provided for smaller vegetation, and differing shaped
            apertures may be used for example fir different shaped containers. The aperture 6 size
            and shape may also indicate the type of vegetation to be located in place. A support
    35      element 1 may have all the same shape and size apertures as shown, or have differing
            ones on the same element 1.

303281889
DSCS09792AUPR
                                                           13
             At convenient locations, for example on the corners as shown tethering points 12 may be
             utilised. This allows free ends or edges of the element 1 to be held in position. This may
             be while other elements are brought into location or for the final location of the floating
       5    wetland 11 that is ultimately formed.
            The elements 1 are designed in the preferred form to be joined into an array 20 to form a
            floating raft on the fluid medium 9 as shown in Figures 9 and 13. The fluid medium is
             normally water for example that on a lake, waterway or possibly on the ocean. The
     10      elements may be pre-assembled into a complete or partially complete raft, with or without
            vegetation and then moved onto the fluid medium. Alternatively they may be assembled
            on the fluid medium 22. Assembly is achieved by locating elements together and joining
            them to form the articulated join 13. In the preferred form as described a pin 16 passes
            through pin apertures 21 in each of the extensions 17 and 18 of neighbouring elements to
    15      form a hinge 15. Alternatively the connector 25 form as described above may be used.
            The resulting hinge between neighbouring elements 1 then allows relative movement as
            seen in Figure 13 about axis 14, and described above. Such rotation may occur due to
            differential loading, wind or wave action.
    20      Elements 1 may be joined to like elements as shown, but there may also be dis-like
            elements 1A that may have other functionality, as shown in Figure 13, for example that
            allow a floating connection to a mooring pole or mast 24. This can allow movement of the
            floating wetland 11 as fluid medium 22 levels rise and fall. Alternatively, or in addition, the
            elements 1 may be tethered 23 as shown. This tether may be to an anchor, or mooring.
    25      The tethering may be at free edges, or in addition, or alternatively, interior to the free
            edges of the raft formed.
            Once assembled the vegetation 2 may grow and contact the fluid medium. Thereafter the
            vegetation will begin to act in a number of beneficial ways to cleanse the water and
    30      environment. For example it will take up nutrients and chemicals that are undesirable,
            lock up nitrogen and carbon.
            The kit may be provided in a form as necessary, for example single or multiple elements
            assembled, stacked or otherwise for assembly, including or not the vegetation in whatever
    35      form as a kit.

303 2818 89
DSCs9792AUPR
                                                         14
            The foregoing description of the invention includes preferred forms thereof. Modifications
            may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.

3032 1889
DSCSO9792AUPR
                                                          15
            What we claim is
              1. A vegetation support element able to support vegetation in a floating disposition
                  on or above a fluid medium, comprising or including,
      5                   a body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at least
                  one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface
                  thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid
                  medium, and
                          at least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
    10            adapted to allow engagement of said element with a neighbouring element,
                          wherein said element can support said vegetation on or above said fluid
                  medium to allow said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating
                  wetland.
    15        2. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 1 wherein said body portion
                  includes at least one tethering point.
              3. A vegetation support element as claimed in either of claims 1 or 2 wherein said
                  body portion is a rigid structure.
    20
              4. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein said
                  at least one aperture can receive and support vegetation, directly or indirectly.
              5. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein said
    25            vegetation can at least in part be supported on or by said upper surface.
              6. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein said
                  body portion is substantially planar in plan form.
    30        7. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein said
                  plan form is polygonal.
              8. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims I to 7 wherein said
                  body portion is rectilinear in plan form.
    35
              9. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein said

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                          16
                  at least one edge portion allows an articulated join to said neighbouring element.
              10. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 9 wherein said articulated join is
                  about an axis parallel to said upper and/or lower surfaces.
      5
              11. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 9 wherein said articulated join
                  can move in multiple axes.
              12. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 9 to 11 wherein said
     10           articulated join is a hinge with at least one selectively removable pin on said axis.
              13. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 12 wherein said at least one
                  edge portion has at least one extension therefrom to receive a like extension from
                  an edge portion of said neighbouring element and said pin passing through said
     15           extensions forms said hinge.
              14. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 13 wherein said extension from
                  said vegetation support element has an extension either side of it from said
                  neighbouring element.
    20
              15. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 9 wherein said articulated join is
                  formed from at least one flexible connector between said vegetation support
                  element and said neighbouring element.
    25        16. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 15 wherein there are two said at
                  least one flexible connectors between said vegetation support element and said
                  neighbouring element.
              17. A vegetation support element as claimed in either of claims 15 or 16 wherein said
    30            at least one flexible connector has two ends, each end to be received into a mating
                  portion on the said vegetation support element or said neighbouring element.
              18. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 17 wherein said mating portion is
                  a recess in said body portion of said vegetation support element.
    35
              19. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein

30328 889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                         17
                   there are multiple said apertures through said body.
              20. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 19 wherein said
                   apertures can receive a container that at least in part holds or supports said
      5            vegetation.
              21. A vegetation support element as claimed in claim 20 wherein said apertures are
                   shaped so as to be complimentary to an exterior periphery of said container.
    10        22. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 21 wherein said
                   apertures are circular in plan form.
              23. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22 wherein said
                   neighbouring element is a like vegetation support element.
    15
              24. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 22 wherein said
                   neighbouring element is another element, different to said vegetation support
                   element.
    20        25. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 24 which can be
                  joined to further similar vegetation support elements by their said edge portions to
                  form a floating raft to support said vegetation in a scalable said floating wetland.
              26. A vegetation support element as claimed in any one of claims I to 25 said support
    25            element has sufficient floatation to support its own weight as well as the weight of
                  said vegetation located thereon.
              27. An array of vegetation support elements to receive and support vegetation in a
                  floating disposition on or above a fluid medium, each said element comprising or
    30            including,
                          A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at
                  least one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface
                  thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid
                  medium,
   35                     At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
                  adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                         18
                  element,
                          wherein said elements support said vegetation on or above said fluid
                  medium to allow said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating
                  wetland.
      5
              28. A floating wetland, where vegetation of said wetland is supported on water by at
                  least one or more support elements, said support elements comprising or
                  including,
                          a body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at least
    10            one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface
                  thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid
                  medium, and
                          at least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
                  adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring
    15            element,
                          wherein said elements support said vegetation on or above said fluid
                  medium to allow said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form said
                  floating wetland.
    20        29. A method of providing a floating wetland, comprising or including the steps of,
                      Providing a support element which at least in part can float, said support
                      element having,
                                  A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has
                          at least one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a
    25                    lower surface thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said
                          vegetation with said fluid medium,
                                  At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge
                          portion adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing
                          neighbouring element,
    30                Locating vegetation onto said support element,
                      Connecting a plurality of supporting elements together along edge portions to
                      produce a raft,
                          wherein said raft can support said vegetation on or above said fluid
                  medium to allow said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating
    35            wetland.

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                         19
              30. A method of providing a floating wetland as claimed in claim 29 wherein said
                  support element has sufficient floatation to support its own weight as well as the
                  weight of said vegetation located thereon.
       5      31. A method of providing a floating wetland as claimed in either one of claims 29 or
                  30 wherein said support elements are connected to each other on said fluid.
              32. A method of providing a floating wetland as claimed in either one of claims 29 or
                  30 wherein said support elements are connected to each other on land and then
     10           located on said fluid medium.
              33. A method of providing a floating wetland as claimed in either one of claims 29 or
                  30 wherein pluralities of said support elements are connected to each other on
                  land and are then connected to further pluralities of support elements on said fluid
     15           medium.
              34. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland, comprising or including,
                           At least one support element, adapted to support vegetation in a floating
                  disposition on or above a fluid medium, said support element having,
    20                     A body portion which is substantially hollow, which body portion has at
                  least one aperture therethrough from an upper surface thereof, to a lower surface
                  thereof, said at least one aperture to allow contact of said vegetation with said fluid
                  medium,
                           At least one edge portion, peripheral to said body portion, said edge portion
    25            adapted to allow engagement of said element with a like or differing neighbouring
                  element,
                           At least one connector to allow engagement of said element to said like or
                  differing neighbouring element,
                  said elements supporting said vegetation on or above said fluid medium to allow
    30            said vegetation to contact said fluid medium and form a floating wetland.
              35. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as claimed in claim 34 comprising a
                  plurality of said support elements.
    35        36. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as claimed in either of claims 34 or 35
                  comprising a plurality of said connectors.

303281889
DSC509792AUPR
                                                         20
              37. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as claimed in any one of claims 34 to
                  36 wherein said connectors are pins.
      5       38. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as claimed in any one of claims 34 to
                  36 wherein said connectors are flexible connectors.
              39. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as claimed in any one of claims 34 to
                  38 comprising said vegetation for each support element.
    10
              40. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as claimed in any one of claims 34 to
                  39 comprising nutrients for said vegetation.
              41. A vegetation support element as herein described with reference to any one or
    15            more of the accompanying drawings.
              42. An array of vegetation support elements as herein described with reference to
                  any one or more of the accompanying drawings.
    20        43. A floating wetland as herein described with reference to any one or more of the
                  accompanying drawings.
              44. A method of providing a floating wetland as herein described with reference to
                  any one or more of the accompanying drawings.
   25
              45. A kit of parts to produce a floating wetland as herein described with reference
                  to any one or more of the accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
