                                      ABSTRACT
          The present invention provides methods and compositions to confer and/or
  augment immune responses mediated by cellular immunotherapy, such as by
  adoptively transferring genetically modified tumor specific CD8+ T cells in the
5 presence of tumor-specific, subset specific genetically modified CD4+ T cells,
  wherein the CD4+ T cells confer and/or augment a CD8+ T cells ability to sustain
  anti-tumor reactivity and increase and/or maximize tumor-specific proliferation of
  the tumor-specific CD8+ T cells of interest. Pharmaceutical formulations produced
  by the method, and methods of using the same, are also described.

     METHOD AND COMPOSITIONS FOR CELLULAR IMMUNOTHERAPY
             This application is a divisional of AU <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of
   AU 2012230780, which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
 5  61/466,552 filed on 23 March 2011, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
   herein by reference in their entirety.
                                      Field of the Invention
             The present invention relates to the field of biomedicine and specifically
10 methods useful for cancer therapy. In particular, embodiments of the invention relate
   to methods and compositions for carrying out cellular immunotherapy.
                     Statement Regarding Federally Sponsored Research
             This invention was made with government support in the form of grants
15 R01CA18029 from the United States Department of Health and Human Services,
   National Institute of Health and Leukemia and Lymphoma Society SCORE grant.
    The United States government has certain rights in the invention.
                                  Background of the Invention
20          Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
    suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
   jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood,
   regarded as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled
   person in the art.
25           Studies in rodents have demonstrated that adoptive immunotherapy with
    antigen specific T cells is effective for cancer and infections, and there is evidence
   this modality has therapeutic activity in humans -8. For clinical applications, it is
   necessary to isolate T cells of a desired antigen specificity or to engineer T cells to
    express receptors that target infected or transformed cells, and then expand these
30  cells in culture9-14. The transfer of T cell clones is appealing because it enables
                                                  1

  control of specificity and function, and facilitates evaluation of in vivo persistence,
  toxicity and efficacy. Additionally, in the setting of allogeneic stem cell
  transplantation, the administration to recipients of T cell clones from the donor that
  target pathogens or malignant cells can avoid graft-versus-host disease that occurs
5 with infusion of unselected donor T cells 3' 4' 15 . However, it is apparent from clinical
  studies that the efficacy of cultured T cells, particularly cloned CD8 T cells, is
                                              1A

   frequently limited by their failure to persist after adoptive transfer'  1 .
           The pool of lymphocytes from which T cells for adoptive immunotherapy
   can be derived contains naYve and long-lived, antigen experienced memory T cells
   (TM). TM can be divided further into subsets of central memory (TcM) and effector
 5 memory (TEM) cells that differ in phenotype, homing properties and function18 .
   CD8* TCM express CD62L and CCR7 at the cell surface, which promote migration
   into lymph nodes, and proliferate rapidly if re-exposed to antigen, CD8* TEM lack
   cell surface CD62L and preferentially migrate to peripheral tissues, and exhibit
   immediate effector function' 9 . In response to antigen stimulation, CD8+ TcM and
10 TEM both differentiate into cytolytic effector T cells (TE) that express a high level of
   granzymes and perforin, but are short-lived20 . Thus, the poor survival of T cells in
   clinical immunotherapy trials may simply result from their differentiation during in
                                                7 21 22
   vitro culture to TE that are destined to die      , . There is a need to identify cell
   populations and methods that provide enhanced survival of adoptively transferred T
15 cells in vivo.
                                  Summary of the Invention
            In one aspect, the present invention relates to methods and compositions to
   confer and/or augment immune responses mediated by cellular immunotherapy,
20 such as by adoptively transferring tumor-specific, subset specific genetically
   modified CD4+ T cells, wherein the CD4+ T cells confer and/or augment the ability
   of CD8+ T cells to sustain anti-tumor reactivity and increase and/or maximize
   tumor-specific proliferation.
            In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of performing
25 cellular immunotherapy in a subject having a disease or disorder by administering to
   the subject a genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that
   provides a cellular immune response, wherein the cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell
   preparation comprises CD8+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor with an
   extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an antigen associated with the
30  disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell or other
    receptors, such as co-stimulatory domains; and a genetically modified helper T
    lymphocyte cell preparation that exhibits a predominant Thi phenotype as well as
    produce other cytokines, elicits direct tumor recognition and augments the
                                                 2

   genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparations ability to mediate a
   cellular immune response, wherein the helper T lymphocyte cell preparation
   comprises CD4+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an
   extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen associated with the
 5 disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor.
   Various modifications of the above method are possible. For example, the chimeric
   antigen receptor modifying the CD4+ T cell and the CD8+ T cell can be the same or
   different. In alternative embodiments, the T cells can be modified with a
   recombinant T cell receptor (TCR). TCR could be specific for any antigen, pathogen
10 or tumor. There are TCRs for many tumor antigens in melanoma (MARTI, gp100,
   for example), leukemia (WTI, minor histocompatibility antigens, for example),
   breast cancer (her2, NY-BRI, for example).
            In another embodiment, the present invention provides an adoptive cellular
   immunotherapy composition having a genetically modified CD8+ cytotoxic T
15 lymphocyte cell preparation that elicits a cellular immune response, wherein the
   cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD8+ T cells that have a
   chimeric antigen receptor with an extracellular variable domain antibody specific for
   an antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling
   domain of a T cell or other receptors, such as a costimulatory domain, and a
20 genetically modified helper T lymphocyte cell preparation that exhibits a
    predominant Thi phenotype as well as produce other cytokines, elicits direct tumor
    recognition and augments the ability of genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte
    cell preparations to mediate a cellular immune response, wherein the helper T
    lymphocyte cell preparation has CD4+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
25  with an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen associated
    with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell
    receptor.
             In yet another embodiment, the present invention provides an adoptive
    cellular immunotherapy composition having a chimeric antigen receptor modified
30  tumor-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that elicits a cellular
    immune response, wherein the cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises
    CD8+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular
    single chain antibody specific for an antigen associated with the disease or disorder
                                                3

   and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor, and an antigen-reactive
   chimeric antigen receptor modified naYve CD4+ T helper cell that is derived from
   CD45RO negative, CD62L positive CD4 positive T cells, and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier.
 5         In another embodiment, the present invention provides an adoptive cellular
   immunotherapy composition having an antigen specific CD8+ cytotoxic T
   lymphocyte cell preparation that elicits a cellular immune response comprising
   CD8+ T cells derived from the patient together with an antigen-reactive chimeric
   antigen receptor modified CD4+ T helper cell that elicits a Thi cytokine response
10 and augments the CD8+ immune response to pathogens, wherein the helper T
   lymphocyte cell preparation with CD4+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
   with an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen associated
   with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell
   receptor.
15          In another embodiment, the present invention provides an adoptive cellular
   immunotherapy composition with an antigen-reactive chimeric antigen receptor
   modified CD4+ T helper cell that elicits direct tumor recognition and augments the
   CD8+ immune response to pathogens, wherein the helper T lymphocyte cell
   preparation comprises CD4 + T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
20 comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an antigen
   associated with a disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T
   cell receptor.
            In another aspect, the present invention provides a method of manufacturing
   an adoptive immunotherapy composition by obtaining a chimeric antigen receptor
25 modified tumor-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that elicits a
   cellular immune response and an antigen-reactive chimeric antigen receptor,
   wherein the modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD8+ T
   cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor with an extracellular antibody variable
   domain specific for an antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an
30  intracellular signaling module of a T cell receptor; and obtaining a modified naYve
   CD4+ T helper cell that elicits a Th I cytokine response, wherein the modified helper
   T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4+ cells that have a chimeric antigen
   receptor with an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen
                                                4

   associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T
   cell receptor.
           In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
   manufacturing an adoptive immunotherapy composition by obtaining a modified
 5 naYve CD4+ T helper cell that elicits a ThI cytokine response, wherein the modified
   helper T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4+T cells that have a chimeric
   antigen receptor comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for
   the antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling
   domain of a T cell receptor, and combining the modified naYve CD4+ T helper cell
10 with an antigen specific central memory CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell
   preparation that has a chimeric antigen receptor with an extracellular antibody
   variable domain specific for the antigen associated with the disease or disorder and
   an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell or other receptors.
           In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of performing
15 cellular immunotherapy in subject having a disease or disorder by administering to
   the subject a genetically modified helper T lymphocyte cell preparation, wherein the
   modified helper T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4+ T cells that have a
   chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain
   specific for an antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular
20 signaling module of a T cell receptor.
           These and other embodiments of the invention are described further in the
   accompanying specification, drawings and claims.
                             Brief Description of the Drawings
25         Fig. 1: shows the phenotype and analysis of chimeric antigen receptor
   (CAR) expression in a CAR-transduced with RORI-CAR encoding lentivirus ,and
   an untransduced CD8+T cell line as a control. The ROR 1-CAR cassette contains a
   truncated EGFR that serves as transduction marker and can be detected by staining
   with anti-EGFR monoclonal antibodies. Truncated Fc-ROR I fusion protein binds
3o directly to the antigen-binding domain of the ROR 1-CAR and selectively stains the
   RORI-CAR transduced but not the untransduced control T cell line. Expression of
   the RORI -CAR on the cell surface of CD8+ T cells is measured directly by binding
                                              5

   to ROR1-Fc fusion protein and indirectly by expression of a truncated EGFR that is
   encoded downstream of a 2A sequence in the vector.
            Fig. 2: shows cytolytic activity of CD8+ T cells expressing a ROR -specific
   chimeric antigen receptor against a panel of human ROR1-positive tumor cell lines
 5 (K562) and primary tumor cells (B-CLL) and autologous normal B-cells in a 5Cr
   release assay. .Consistent with the uniform expression of RORI on malignant but
   not on mature normal B cells, genetically modified CD8+ RORI-CAR T cells only
   lysed ROR1+ tumor cells but not mature normal B cells. CD8+ RORI -CART cells
   exert specific lytic activity against RORI-positive tumor cells including primary
10 CLL, but not against normal B cells.
            Fig. 3: shows the phenotype and CAR expression of a RORI-CAR
   transduced and an untransduced CD4+ T cell line as a control. Expression of the
   RORI-CAR on the cell surface of CD4+ T cells is measured by specific binding to
   RORI-Fc fusion protein.Truncated Fc RORI fusion protein but not Fc protein alone
15 binds directly to the RORI -CAR and selectively stains the RORI -CAR transduced
   but not the untransduced control CD4+ T cell line confirming expression of the
   RORI-CAR on the cell surface and binding to RORI-protein. Expression of the
   RORI -CAR on the cell surface of CD4+ T cells is measured by specific binding to
   ROR1-F fusion protein, but not to a control Fc fusion protein.
20          Fig. 4: (i.e., FIGS 4A-4B, collectively) shows weak but specific cytolytic
   activity of CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells in a        51Cr release assay. against a panel of
   ROR1-positive tumor cells including primary CLL, the mantle cell lymphoma line
    Jeko-1, K562 cells that were stably transfected with RORI (K562/RORI), but not
    native RORI-negative K562 cells. CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells exert weak but
25  specific lytic activity against RORI -positive tumor cells.
            Fig. 5: (i.e., FIGS 5A-5B, collectively) show the results from an IFNy
    ELISA (Fig. 5A) and multiplex cytokine assay (Fig. 5B). Cytokine secretion of
    CD4+ and CD8+ ROR1-CAR T cell lines. CD4+ RORI-CAR and CD8 RORI-CAR
    T cells were co-incubated with RORI + tumor cells, and levels of interferon gamma
3o  (IFNg) was measured by ELISA (5A), and IFNg, TNFa, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and IL- 17
    were measured by Luminex assay (5B). CD4+ RORI -CAR modified T cells
    specifically recognize ROR1 -postive tumor cells and tumor cell lines and produce
    higher amounts of ThI cytokines including IFN-y, TNF-a and particularly IL-2 than
                                                 6

   CD8+ RORI-CAR modified T cells. These data demonstrate that CD4+ RORI
   CAR T cells exert helper effector functions after stimulation through the RORI
   CAR and in addition to mediating direct anti-tumor reactivity, could also be utilized
   to augment the ability of CD8+ ROR1-CAR modified T cells to mediate a cellular
 5 immune response.
            Fig. 6 depicts the results of a proliferation study showing that CD4+ RORI
   CAR T cells are induced to proliferate after stimulation with ROR1-positive tumor
   cell lines and primary tumor cells (CFSE assay)and that both the percentage of
   proliferating cells and number of cell divisions that the proliferating subset
10 underwent were significantly higher compared to CD8+ RORI-CAR modified T
   cells. CD4+ ROR I-CAR T cells proliferate more vigorously after stimulation with
   RORI-positive tumor cells (K562/ROR1, primary CLL, and Jeko MCL) compared
   to CD8+ RORI -CAR CTLs.
            Fig. 7: Polyclonal unselected CD4+ RORI CAR T cells provide help to
15 CD8+ ROR 1-CAR CTLs by promoting their proliferation in response to tumor.
   CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells (derived from bulk CD4+ T cells) significantly increased
   proliferation of polyclonal unselected CD8+ RORI-CAR CTLs (18% in individual
   culture -> 31.5% after co-culture with CD4+ CAR T cells).
            Fig. 8: (i.e., FIGS 8A-8D, collectively) shows the generation of CD4+ CAR
20 T cell lines from flow sort purified CD4+ naYve, central memory and effector
    memory subsets and analysis of T-cell function. Cytokine profile and proliferative
    capacity suggest that CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells derived from naYve CD4+ T cells
    may be best suited to provide help to CD8+ CTLs. Similar data were obtained in
    experiments comparing the function of CD4+ CAR T-cell lines expressing a CD19
25  specific CAR. Figure 8A shows flow sort purification of naYve, central and effector
    memory CD4+ T cells based on expression of CD45RA, CD45RO, CD62L.Figure
    8B shows analysis of proliferation of RORI -CAR T cell lines that were derived by
    lentiviral transduction of sort purified naive, central and effector memory CD4+ T
    cells (CFSE assay). Figure 8C shows analysis of cytokine secretion of RORI-CAR
30  T cell lines from sort purified naYve, central and effector memory CD4+ T cells
    (Luminex assay). Figure 8D shows analysis of cytokine secretion of CD19-CAR T
    cell lines from sort purified naYve, central and effector memory CD4+ T cells
    (Luminex assay). The cytokine profile obtained by multiplex cytokine analysis (FIG.
                                                  7

   8B) and proliferative capacity by CFSE staining (FIG. 8C) shows that CD4+ RORI
   CAR modified T cells derived from the naYve subset produced the highest levels of
   ThI cytokines and proliferated most vigorously after stimulation with RORI
   positive tumor cells, suggesting they may be best suited to augment CD8+ RORI
 5 CAR CTLs. Analysis of cytokine secretion of CD19-CAR T cell lines from sort
   purified naYve, central and effector memory CD4+T cells (Luminex assay),
   demonstrates that the activity of CD4 T cell subsets is generalizable to many CARs.
           Fig. 9: shows co-culture of CD8+ ROR 1-CAR modified T cells with CD4+
   RORI-CAR modified T cells (but not untransduced control CD4+ T cells). Co
10 culture of CD8+ RORI-CAR CTLs and CD4+ ROR 1-CAR T cell lines derived from
   naYve, central and effector memory subsets to define the optimal combination of
   CD8+ and CD4+ T cells that would allow maximum proliferation of CD8+ ROR I
   CAR CTLs. CD4 naYve ROR I-CAR T cells provide the greatest proliferation of
   CD8 central memory RORI-CAR CTLs. Co culture leads to an increase in tumor
15 specific proliferation of the CD8+ subset, and that maximum proliferation of the
   CD8+ subset is observed after co-culture with CD4+ RORI -CAR T cells derived
   from naYve CD4+ T cells, demonstrating that naYve
           Fig. 10: shows the superior ability of CD4+ CAR T-cell lines derived from
   the naYve subset to augment tumor-specific proliferation of central memory-derived
20 CD8+ CAR CTL in co-culture experiments with CD8+ CDI 9-CAR CTLs and
   CD4+ CD19-CAR T-cell lines, stimulated with the CD19+ mantle cell lymphoma
   tumor line Jeko-l. The superior ability of CD4+ CAR T-cell lines derived from the
   naYve subset to augment tumor-specific proliferation of central memory-derived
   CD8+ CAR CTL was confirmed in co-culture experiments with CD8+ CD1 9-CAR
25 CTLs and CD4+ CD19-CAR T-cell lines, stimulated with the CD 19+ mantle cell
   lymphoma tumor line Jeko-1.
           Fig. 11: shows that CD8+ CAR T cells and CD4+ CAR T cells
   independently confer direct anti-tumor efficacy in a lymphoma model in
   immunodeficient mice (NOD/SCID-Raji). .Groups of mice (n=3) were inoculated
30 with firefly-luciferase expressing Raji tumor cells via tail vein injection and treated
   with a single dose of 10x10^6 T cells. Mice received either CD19-CAR transduced
   or control mock-transduced CD8+ central memory-derived (A), or CDI9-CAR
                                               8

   transduced or control mock-transduced CD4+ naive-derived T cells (B). Tumor
   burden and distribution was analyzed using serial bioluminescence imaging.
           Fig. 12: shows the augmentation and synergistic effect CD4+ RORI-CAR
   modified T cells on the anti-tumor efficacy of CD8+ROR1 -CAR CTLs in a mouse
 5 tumor model of systemic mantle cell lymphoma (NSG/Jeko- 1-ffLuc). Anti-tumor
   efficacy of RORI-CAR modified CD8+ and CD4+ T cells in a mouse tumor model
   of systemic aggressive mantle cell lymphoma (NSG/Jeko-1). Analysis of tumor
   burden using bioluminescence imaging after adoptive transfer of CD8+ RORI-CAR
   CTLs, CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells or a combination of CD8+ and CD4+ RORI-CAR
10 T cells T cells. All mice received the same total dose of CAR T cells.
           Fig. 13: shows synergy of CD8+ and CD4+ CD19-CAR T cells in a mouse
   model of systemic lymphoma (NSG/Raji). NSG mice were inoculated with firefly
   luciferase transduced Raji tumor cells. Engraftment of the Raji tumor was confirmed
   by bioluminescence imaging on day 6 after tumor inoculation (before treatment)
15 (treatment scheme shown in A, tumor engraftment by bioluminescence shown in B).
   Groups of mice (n=5) were then treated with either CD8+ CD19-CAR modified T
   cells, or a combined T-cell product that contained both CD8+ and CD4+ CD 19
   CAR T cells. All mice received the same total dose of T cells (0x1A6). Analysis of
   tumor burden using bioluminescence imaging showed complete eradication of the
20 Raji tumors in the cohorts of mice treated with CD8+ CD19-CAR T cells, and in
   mice treated with the combined CD8+ and CD4+ CD19-CAR T-cell product (after
   treatment middle black and grey bars) B). The mice were then challenged with a
   second inoculum of Raji tumor cells and the frequency of CD4+ and CD8+ CAR T
   cells in the peripheral blood, and tumor engraftment were analyzed. In mice treated
25 with a combined CD8+ and CD4+ CAR T-cell product, significantly higher levels
   CD8+ CAR T cells after the tumor challenge (C lower panels), and complete
   rejection of the Raji inoculum (after tumor challenge right grey bar, B). In contrast,
   in mice that had received CD8+ CD19-CAR CTL alone, we did not detect an
   increase in CAR T cells after the tumor challenge (C) and the Raji tumor cells were
30 able to engraft (after tumor challenge right black bar, panel B).
                    Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
           As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
                                              9

"comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and
"comprised", are not intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or
steps.
       "T cells" or "T lymphocytes" as used herein may be from any mammalian,
                                          9A

   preferably primate, species, including monkeys, dogs, and humans. In some
   embodiments the T cells are allogeneic (from the same species but different donor)
   as the recipient subject; in some embodiments the T cells are autologous (the donor
   and the recipient are the same); in some embodiments the T cells arc syngeneic (the
 5 donor and the recipients are different but are identical twins).
            Cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) as used herein refers to a T lymphocyte that
   expresses CD8 on the surface thereof (i.e., a CD8* T cell). In some embodiments
   such cells are preferably "memory" T cells (TM cells) that are antigen-experienced.
            "Central memory" T cell (or "TcM") as used herein refers to an antigen
10 experienced CTL that expresses CD62L and CD45RO on the surface thereof, and
   does not express or has decreased expression of CD45RA as compared to naive cells
   .In embodiments, central memory cells are positive for expression CD62L, CCR7,
   CD28, CD127, CD45RO, and CD95, and have decreased expression of CD54RA as
   compared to naYve cells.
15          "Effector memory" T cell (or 'TEM") as used herein refers to an antigen
   experienced CTL that does not express or has decreased expression of CD62L on the
   surface thereof as compared to central memory cells, and does not express or has
   decreased expression of CD45RA as compared to naYve cell. In embodiments,
   effector memory cells are negative for expression CD62L, CCR7, CD28, CD45RA,
20 and are positive for CD127 as compared to naYve cells or central memory cells.
            "NaYve " T cells as used herein refers to a non antigen experienced T
   lymphocyte that expresses CD62L and CD45RA, and does not express or has
   decreased expression of CD45RO- as compared to central memory cells. In some
   embodiments, naYve CD8+ T lymphocytes are characterized by the expression of
25 phenotypic markers of naYve T cells including CD62L, CCR7, CD28, CD3, CD127,
   and CD45RA.
            "Effector " "TE" T cells as used herein refers to a antigen experienced
   cytotoxic T lymphocyte cells that do not express or have decreased expression of
   CD62L ,CCR7, CD28, and are positive for granzyme B and perforin as compared to
30 central memory cells.
             "Enriched" and "depleted" as used herein to describe amounts of cell types in
   a mixture refers to the subjecting of the mixture of the cells to a process or step
   which results in an increase in the number of the "enriched" type and a decrease in
                                               10

   the number of the "depleted" cells. Thus, depending upon the source of the original
   population of cells subjected to the enriching process, a mixture or composition may
   contain 60, 70, 80, 90,95, or 99 percent or more (in number or count) of the
   "enriched" cells and 40, 30, 20, 10, 5 or 1 percent or less (in number or count) of the
 5 "depleted" cells.
           Interleukin-15 is a known and described in, for example, US Patent No.
   6,344,192.
           "CAR" as used herein refers to chimeric antigen receptor comprising an
   extracellular variable domain of an antibody specific for an antigen associated with
10 the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell or other
   receptors, such as a costimulatory domain.
   Modes of the Disclosure
           CD4+ T lymphocytes during in vitro culture significantly increase
   proliferation, persistence and anti-tumor reactivity of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in
15 vitro and in vivo. In some embodiments, naive CD4+ T cells possess an intrinsic
   programming that leads to superior helper activity compared to CD4+ T cells
   derived from central and effector memory, or bulk CD4+ T cells.
           In embodiments, tumor-reactive CD4+ T cells are modified with a single
   chain antibody-derived chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) specific for the orphan
20 tyrosine kinase receptor RORI or for the CD19 molecule. RORI is uniformly
   expressed on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and mantle cell lymphoma
   (MCL) and RORI-specific CAR from an anti-RORI monoclonal antibody (mAb)
   confers specific recognition of malignant, but not mature normal B-cells when
   expressed in CD8+ cytotoxic T cells (CTLs). RORI-CAR T cells from bulk and
25 flow sort purified naive, central and effector memory CD4+ T cells are obtained
   from the peripheral blood of both healthy donors and CLL patients. CD4+ CAR T
   cells had specific but weak cytolytic activity against RORI+ tumors including
   primary CLL, the MCL line Jeko-l, and K562 cells transfected with RORL
   Multiplex cytokine analysis detects high-level production of ThI cytokines with
30 significantly higher levels of IFNy, TNFa, and particularly IL-2 compared to CD8+
   CAR CTLs. CFSE staining shows dramatically higher proliferation after stimulation
   with RORI-positive tumor cells, with both the percentage of cells that were induced
                                              11

   to proliferate and the number of cell divisions that the proliferating subset underwent
   being significantly higher compared to CD8+ CAR CTL. CD4+ T cells obtained
   from both healthy donors and CLL patients acquire anti-tumor reactivity after
   genetic modification with a ROR] -specific CAR. Moreover, the ability to proliferate
 5 in the absence of exogenous cytokines and to produce high levels of Th1 cytokines
   demonstrates that CD4+ CAR T cells exert typical helper functions after stimulation
   through the CAR and suggests that in addition to conferring direct anti-tumor
   effects, could be utilized to augment tumor-specific CD8+ CTL.
           The cytokine profile and proliferative capacity of RORI-CAR T cells
10 derived from flow sort purified CD4+ naive, central and effector memory subsets is
   obtained. The CD4+ CAR T cells, derived from the naYve CD45RA+ CD45RO
   CD62L+ subset, produces the highest levels of Th1 cytokines, especially IL-2, and
   proliferates in response to RORI+ tumor cells. Indeed, in co-culture experiments,
   the addition of CAR-transduced, but not untransduced CD4+ T cells leads to a
15 significant increase in tumor-specific proliferation of CD8+ CAR CTLs. In some
   embodiments, CAR-modified CD4+ T cells derived from naYve rather than central
   and effector memory subsets or bulk CD4+ T cells results in enhanced proliferation
   of CD8+ CAR CTL,
           CD8+ central memory T cells have an intrinsic programming that allows
20 them to persist for extended periods after administration, which makes them the
   preferred subset of CD8+ T cells for immunotherapy. In embodiments, RORI-CAR
   or CD1 9 CAR modified CTLs from sort purified CD8+ central memory T cells and
   CD4+ naYve CAR-modified T cells provide enhanced proliferation of the CD8+ T
   cell subset. In embodiments, tumor-specific CD4+ T cells exert anti-tumor reactivity
25 and provide help to tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in vitro and in vivo. In a specific
   embodiment, tumor-specific CD4+ T cells from the naYve subset are utilized.
           In another embodiment, the CD8+ and CD4+ T cells can be modified with a
   T cell receptor (TCR). The TCR could be specific for any antigen, pathogen or
   tumor (there are TCRs for many tumor antigens in melanoma (MARTI, gp 100 for
30 example), leukemia (WTI, minor histocompatibility antigens for example), breast
   cancer (her2, NY-BR I for example).
                                               12

   Detailed Description
   Compositions
            The disclosure provides for an adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition
   comprising a genetically modified helper T lymphocyte cell preparation that
 5 augments the genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparations ability
   to mediate a cellular immune response, wherein the helper T lymphocyte cell
   preparation comprises CD4 + T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
   comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen
   associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T
10 cell receptor or other receptors.
            In some embodiments, an adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition
   further comprises a chimeric antigen receptor modified tumor-specific CD8+
   cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that elicits a cellular immune response,
   wherein the cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD8+ T cells that
15 have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular single chain antibody
   specific for an antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular
   signaling domain of a T cell receptor.
            In some embodiments, an adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition
   comprises a chimeric antigen receptor modified tumor-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T
20 lymphocyte cell preparation that elicits a cellular immune response, wherein the
   cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD8+ T cells that have a
   chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular single chain antibody specific
   for an antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling
   domain of a T cell receptor, in combination with an antigen-reactive chimeric
25 antigen receptor modified naYve CD4+ T helper cell derived from CD45RO
   negative, CD62L positive CD4 positive T cells, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
   carrier.
            In other embodiments, an adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition
   comprises an antigen specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that
30 elicits a cellular immune response derived from the patient combined with an
   antigen-reactive chimeric antigen receptor modified naYve CD4+ T helper cell that
    augments the CD8+ immune response, wherein the helper T lymphocyte cell
   preparation comprises CD4 + T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
                                              13

   comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen
   associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T
   cell receptor.
            In a further embodiment, an adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition
 5 comprises an antigen-reactive chimeric antigen receptor modified naive CD4+ T
   helper cell that augments the CD8+ immune response, wherein the helper T
   lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4 + T cells that have a chimeric antigen
   receptor comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an
   antigen associated with a disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of
10 a T cell receptor.
            In embodiments, the CD4+ T helper lymphocyte cell is selected from the
   group consisting of naive CD4+ T cells, central memory CD4+ T cells, effector
   memory CD4+ T cells, or bulk CD4+ T cells. In some embodiments, CD4+ helper
   lymphocyte cell is a naYve CD4+ T cell, wherein the naive CD4+ T cell comprises a
15 CD45RO-, CD45RA+, CD62L+ CD4+ T cell. In embodiments, the CD8+ T
   cytotoxic lymphocyte cell is selected from the group consisting of naive CD8+ T
   cells, central memory CD8+ T cells, effector memory CD8+ T cells or bulk CD8+ T
   cells. In some embodiments, the CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell is a central
   memory T cell wherein the central memory T cell comprises a CD45RO+, CD62L+,
20 CD8+ T cell. In yet other embodiments, the CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell is a
   central memory T cell and the CD4+ helper T lymphocyte cell is a naive CD4+ T
   cell.
            In alternative embodiments, the T cells can be modified with a recombinant
   T cell receptor. TCR could be specific for any antigen, pathogen or tumor. There are
25 TCRs for many tumor antigens in melanoma (MARTI, gp100, for example),
   leukemia (WT1, minor histocompatibility antigens, for example), breast cancer
   (her2, NY-BRI, for example).
   Selection and Sorting of T lymphocyte populations
30           The compositions described herein provide for antigen reactive CD4+ and
   CD8+ T lymphocytes.
             T lymphocytes can be collected in accordance with known techniques and
   enriched or depleted by known techniques such as affinity binding to antibodies
                                              14

   such as flow cytometry and/or immunomagnetic selection. After enrichment and/or
   depletion steps, in vitro expansion of the desired T lymphocytes can be carried out in
   accordance with known techniques (including but not limited to those described in
   US Patent No. 6,040,177 to Riddell et al.), or variations thereof that will be apparent
 5 to those skilled in the art.
            For example, the desired T cell population or subpopulation may be
   expanded by adding an initial T lymphocyte population to a culture medium in vitro,
   and then adding to the culture medium feeder cells, such as non-dividing peripheral
   blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), (e.g., such that the resulting population of cells
10 contains at least about 5, 10, 20, or 40 or more PBMC feeder cells for each T
   lymphocyte in the initial population to be expanded); and incubating the culture (e.g.
   for a time sufficient to expand the numbers of T cells). The non-dividing feeder cells
   can comprise gamma-irradiated PBMC feeder cells. In some embodiments, the
   PBMC are irradiated with gamma rays in the range of about 3000 to 3600 rads. The
15 order of addition of the T cells and feeder cells to the culture media can be reversed
   if desired. The culture can typically be incubated under conditions of temperature
   and the like that are suitable for the growth of T lymphocytes. For the growth of
   human T lymphocytes, for example, the temperature will generally be at least about
   25 degrees Celsius, preferably at least about 30 degrees, more preferably about 37
20 degrees.
            The T lymphocytes expanded include cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and
   helper T lymphocytes that are specific for an antigen present on a human tumor or a
   pathogen.
            Optionally, the expansion method may further comprise the step of adding
25 non-dividing EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cells (LCL) as feeder cells. LCL can
   be irradiated with gamma rays in the range of about 6000 to 10,000 rads. The LCL
   feeder cells may be provided in any suitable amount, such as a ratio of LCL feeder
   cells to initial T lymphocytes of at least about 10:1.
            Optionally, the expansion method may further comprise the step of adding
30 anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody to the culture medium (e.g., at a concentration of at
   least about 0.5 ng/ml). Optionally, the expansion method may further comprise the
   step of adding IL-2 and/or IL-15 to the culture medium (e.g., wherein the
   concentration of IL-2 is at least about 10 units/m ).
                                               15

            After isolation of T lymphocytes both cytotoxic and helper T lymphocytes
   can be sorted into naYve, memory, and effector T cell subpopulations either before or
   after exoansion.
            CD8+ cells can be obtained by using standard methods. In some
 5 embodiments, CD8+ cells are further sorted into naYve, central memory, and effector
   cells by identifying cell surface antigens that are associated with each of those types
   of CD8+ cells. In embodiments, memory T cells are present in both CD62L+ and
   CD62L- subsets of CD8+ peripheral blood lymphocytes. PBMC are sorted into
   CD62L-CD8+ and CD62L+CD8+ fractions after staining with anti-CD8 and anti
10 CD62L antibodies. In some embodiments, the expression of phenotypic markers of
   central memory TCM include CD45RO, CD62L, CCR7, CD28, CD3, and CD127
   and are negative for granzyme B. In some embodiments, central memory T cells are
   CD45RO+, CD62L+, CD8+ T cells. In some embodiments, effector TE are
   negative for CD62L, CCR7, CD28, and CD127, and positive for granzyme B and
15 perforin. In some embodiments, naYve CD8+ T lymphocytes are characterized by the
   expression of phenotypic markers of naYve T cells including CD62L, CCR7, CD28,
   CD3, CD127, and CD45RA.
            Whether a cell or cell population is positive for a particular cell surface
   marker can be determined by flow cytometry using staining with a specific antibody
20 for the surface marker and an isotype matched control antibody. A cell population
   negative for a marker refers to the absence of significant staining of the cell
   population with the specific antibody above the isotype control, positive refers to
   uniform staining of the cell population above the isotype control.In some
   embodiments, a decrease in expression of one or markers refers to loss of I log 10 in
25 the mean fluorescence intensity and/or decrease of percentage of cells that exhibit
   the marker of at least 20% of the cells, 25% of-the cells, 30% of the cells, 35% of
   the cells, 40% of the cells, 45% of the cells, 50% of the cells, 55% of the cells, 60%
   of the cells, 65% of the cells, 70% of the cells, 75% of the cells, 80% of the cells,
   85% of the cells, 90% of the cell, 95% of the cells, and 100% of the cells and any %
30 between 20 and 100% when compared to a reference cell population. In some
   embodiments, a cell population positive for of one or markers refers to a percentage
   of cells that exhibit the marker of at least 50% of the cells, 55% of the cells, 60% of
   the cells, 65% of the cells, 70% of the cells, 75% of the cells, 80% of the cells, 85%
                                                16

   of the cells, 90% of the cell, 95% of the cells, and 100% of the cells and any %
   between 50 and 100% when compared to a reference cell population.
            CD4+ T helper cells are sorted into naYve, central memory, and effector cells
   by identifying cell populations that have cell surface antigens. CD4+ lymphocytes
 5 can be obtained by standard methods. In some embodiments, naYve CD4+ T
   lymphocytes are CD45RO-, CD45RA+, CD62L+ CD4+ T cell. In some
   embodiments, central memory CD4+ cells are CD62L positive and CD45RO
   positive. In some embodiments, effector CD4+ cells are CD62L and CD45RO
   negative.
10          Populations of CD4+ and CD8+ that are antigen specific can be obtained by
   stimulating naYve or antigen specific T lymphocytes with antigen. For example,
   antigen specific T cell clones can be generated to Cytomegalovirus antigens by
   isolating T cells from infected subjects and stimulating the cells in vitro with the
   same antigen. NaYve T cells may also be used. Any number of antigens from tumor
15 cells, cancer cells, or infectious agents may be utilized. Examples of such antigens
   include HIV antigens, HCV antigens, HBV antigens, CMV antigens, parasitic
   antigens, and tumor antigens such as orphan tyrosine kinase receptor RORI, tEGFR,
   Her2, LI-CAM, CD19, CD20, CD22, mesothelin, and CEA. In some embodiments,
   the adoptive cellular immunotherapy compositions are useful in the treatment of a
20 disease or disorder including a solid tumor, hematologic malignancy, melanoma, or
   infection with a virus.
   Modification of T lymphocyte populations
            In some embodiments it may be desired to introduce functional genes into
   the T cells to be used in immunotherapy in accordance with the present disclosure.
25 For example, the introduced gene or genes may improve the efficacy of therapy by
   promoting the viability and/or function of transferred T cells; or they may provide a
   genetic marker to permit selection and/or evaluation of in vivo survival or migration;
   or they may incorporate functions that improve the safety of immunotherapy, for
   example, by making the cell susceptible to negative selection in vivo as described by
30 Lupton S. D. et al., Mol. and Cell Biol., 11:6 (1991); and Riddell et al., Human Gene
   Therapy 3:319-338 (1992); see also the publications of PCT/US91/08442 and
   PCT/US94/05601 by Lupton et al. describing the use of bifunctional selectable
                                               17

   fusion genes derived from fusing a dominant positive selectable marker with a
   negative selectable marker. This can be carried out in accordance with known
   techniques (see, e.g., US Patent No. 6,040,177 to Riddell et al. at columns 14-17) or
   variations thereof that will be apparent to those skilled in the art based upon the
 5 present disclosure.
            In embodiments, T cells are modified with chimeric antigen receptors
   (CAR). In some embodiments, CARs comprise a single-chain antibody fragment
   (scFv) that is derived from the variable heavy (VH) and variable light (VL) chains of
   a monoclonal antibody (mAb) linked to the TCR CD3+ chain that mediates T-cell
10 activation and cytotoxicity. Costimulatory signals can also be provided through the
   CAR by fusing the costimulatory domain of CD28 or 4-1BB to the CD3+ chain.
   CARs are specific for cell surface molecules independent from HLA, thus
   overcoming the limitations of TCR-recognition including HLA-restriction and low
   levels of HLA-expression on tumor cells.
15          CARs can be constructed with a specificity for any cell surface marker by
   utilizing antigen binding fragments or antibody variable domains of, for example,
   antibody molecules. The antigen binding molecules can be linked to one or more
   cell signaling modules. In embodiments, cell signaling modules include CD3
   transmembrane domain, CD3 intracellular signaling domains, and CD 28
20 transmembrane domains. In embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain
   comprises a CD28 transmembrane and signaling domain linked to a CD3
   intracellular domain.In some embodiments, a CAR can also include a transduction
   marker such as tEGFR.
             In embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain of the CD8+ cytotoxic T
25 cells is the same as the intracellular signaling domain of the CD4+ helper T cells. In
    other embodiments, the intracellular signaling domain of the CD8+ cytotoxic T cells
    is different than the intracellular signaling domain of the CD4+ helper T cells.
             In some embodiments, the CD8+ T cell and the CD4+ T cell are both
    genetically modified with an antibody heavy chain domain that specifically binds a
30  pathogen-specific cell surface antigen. In embodiments, CARs are specific for cell
    surface expressed antigens associated with pathogens, tumors, or cancer cells. In
    some embodiments, a CAR is specific for HIV antigens, HCV antigens, HBV
    antigens, CMV antigens, parasitic antigens, and tumor antigens such as orphan
                                                 18

   tyrosine kinase receptor RORI, tEGFR, Her2, LI-CAM, CD19, CD20, CD22,
   mesothelin, and CEA. Methods for producing a CAR are described herein and can
   also be found in 6,410,319 by Forman and WO 2002/077029, 7,446,191,
   2010/065818, 2010/025177, 2007/059298, and 7,514,537 by Jensen et al. and as
 5 described by Berger C. et al., J. ClinicalInvestigation, 118:1 294-308 (2008), which
   are hereby incorporated by reference.
           In embodiments, the same or a different CAR can be introduced into each of
   CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes. In embodiments, the CAR in each of these
   populations has an antigen binding molecule that specifically binds to the same
10 antigen. The cellular signaling modules can differ. In embodiments each of the CD4
   or CD8 T lymphocytes can be sorted in to naYve, central memory, effector memory
   or effector cells prior to transduction. In alternative embodiments, each of the CD4
   or CD8 T lymphocytes can be sorted in to nafve, central memory, effector memory,
   or effector cells prior to transduction.
15         In alternative embodiments, the T cells can be modified with a recombinant
   T cell receptor. TCR could be specific for any antigen, pathogen or tumor. There are
   TCRs for many tumor antigens in melanoma (MARTI, gp100 for example),
   leukemia (WTI, minor histocompatibility antigens for example), breast cancer
   (her2, NY-BRI for example).
20         Various infection techniques have been developed which utilize recombinant
   infectious virus particles for gene delivery. This represents a currently preferred
   approach to the transduction of T lymphocytes of the present invention. The viral
   vectors which have been used in this way include virus vectors derived from simian
   virus 40, adenoviruses, adeno-associated virus (AAV), lentiviral vectors, and
25 retroviruses. Thus, gene transfer and expression methods are numerous but
   essentially function to introduce and express genetic material in mammalian cells,
   Several of the above techniques have been used to transduce hematopoietic or
   lymphoid cells, including calcium phosphate transfection, protoplast fusion,
   electroporation, and infection with recombinant adenovirus, adeno-associated virus
30 and retrovirus vectors. Primary T lymphocytes have been successfully transduced by
   electroporation and by retroviral infection.
           Retroviral vectors provide a highly efficient method for gene transfer into
   eukaryotic cells. Moreover, retroviral integration takes place in a controlled fashion
                                                19

   and results in the stable integration of one or a few copies of the new genetic
   information per cell.
           It is contemplated that overexpression of a stimulatory factor (for example, a
   lymphokine or a cytokine) may be toxic to the treated individual. Therefore, it is
 5 within the scope of the invention to include gene segments that cause the T cells of
   the invention to be susceptible to negative selection in vivo. By "negative selection"
   is meant that the infused cell can be eliminated as a result of a change in the in vivo
   condition of the individual. The negative selectable phenotype may result from the
   insertion of a gene that confers sensitivity to an administered agent, for example, a
10 compound. Negative selectable genes are known in the art, and include, inter alia the
   following: the Herpes simplex virus type I thymidine kinase (HSV-l TK) gene
   (Wigler et al., Cell 11:223, 1977) which confers ganciclovir sensitivity; the cellular
   hypoxanthine phosphribosyltransferase (HPRT)gene, the cellular adenine
   phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT) gene, bacterial cytosine deaminase, (Mullen et
15 al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 89:33 (1992)).
            In some embodiments it may be useful to include in the T cells a positive
   marker that enables the selection of cells of the negative selectable phenotype in
   vitro. The positive selectable marker may be a gene which, upon being introduced
   into the host cell expresses a dominant phenotype permitting positive selection of
20 cells carrying the gene. Genes of this type are known in the art, and include, inter
                                                                                    to
   alia, hygromycin-B phosphotransferase gene (hph) which confers resistance
   hygromycin B, the amino glycoside phosphotransferase gene (neo or aph) from Tn5
    which codes for resistance to the antibiotic G418, the dihydrofolate reductase
    (DHFR) gene, the adenosine daminase gene (ADA), and the multi-drug resistance
25  (MDR) gene.
            Preferably, the positive selectable marker and the negative selectable element
    are linked such that loss of the negative selectable element necessarily also is
    accompanied by loss of the positive selectable marker. Even more preferably, the
    positive and negative selectable markers are fused so that loss of one obligatorily
30  leads to loss of the other. An example of a fused polynucleotide that yields as an
    expression product a polypeptide that confers both the desired positive and negative
    selection features described above is a hygromycin phosphotransferase thymidine
    kinase fusion gene (HyTK). Expression of this gene yields a polypeptide that confers
                                                20

   hygromycin B resistance for positive selection in vitro, and ganciclovir sensitivity
   for negative selection in vivo. See Lupton S. D., et al, Mol. and Cell. Biology
   11:3374- 3378, 1991. In addition, in preferred embodiments, the polynucleotides of
   the invention encoding the chimeric receptors are in retroviral vectors containing the
 5 fused gene, particularly those that confer hygromycin B resistance for positive
   selection in vitro, and ganciclovir sensitivity for negative selection in vivo, for
   example the HyTK retroviral vector described in Lupton, S. D. et al. (1991), supra.
   See also the publications of PCT/US91/08442 and PCT/US94/05601, by S. D.
   Lupton, describing the use of bifunctional selectable fusion genes derived from
10 fusing a dominant positive selectable markers with negative selectable markers.
           Preferred positive selectable markers are derived from genes selected from
   the group consisting of hph, nco, and gpt, and preferred negative selectable markers
   are derived from genes selected from the group consisting of cytosine deaminase,
   HSV-I TK, VZV TK, HPRT, APRT and gpt. Especially preferred markers are
15 bifunctional selectable fusion genes wherein the positive selectable marker is
   derived from hph or neo, and the negative selectable marker is derived from cytosine
   deaminase or a TK gene or selectable marker.
           A variety of methods can be employed for transducing T lymphocytes, as is
   well known in the art. For example, retroviral transductions can be carried out as
20 follows: on day I after stimulation using REM as described herein, provide the cells
   with 20-30 units/ml IL-2; on day 3, replace one half of the medium with retroviral
   supernatant prepared according to standard methods and then supplement the
   cultures with 5 ug/ml polybrene and 20-30 units/ml IL-2; on day 4, wash the cells
   and place them in fresh culture medium supplemented with 20-30 units/ml IL-2; on
25 day 5, repeat the exposure to retrovirus; on day 6, place the cells in selective
   medium (containing, e.g., an antibiotic corresponding to an antiobiotic resistance
   gene provided in the retroviral vector) supplemented with 30 units/ml IL-2; on day
   13, separate viable cells from dead cells using Ficoll Hypaque density gradient
   separation and then subclone the viable cells.
30         CD4+ and CD8+ cells can be modified with an expression vector encoding a
   CAR. In embodiments, these cells are then further sorted into subpopulations of
   naYve, central memory and effector cells as described above by sorting for cell
   surface antigens unique to each of those cell populations. In addition, CD4+ or
                                               21

   CD8+ cell populations may be selected by their cytokine profile or proliferative
   activities. For example, CD4+ T lymphocytes that have enhanced production of
   cytokines such as IL-2, IL-4, IL- 10, TNFa, and IFNy as compared to sham
   transduced cells or transduced CD8+ cells when stimulated with antigen can be
 5 selected. In other embodiments, naYve CD4+ T cells that have enhanced production
   of IL-2 and/or TNFa are selected. Likewise, CD8+ cells that have enhanced IFNy
   production are selected as compared to sham transduced CD8+ cells.
            In embodiments, CD4+ and CD8+cells that proliferate in response to antigen
   are selected. For example, CD4+ cells that proliferate vigorously when stimulated
10 with antigen as compared to sham transduced cells, or CD8+ transduced cells are
   selected.
            In some embodiments, CD4+ and CD8+ cells are selected that are cytotoxic
   for antigen bearing cells. In embodiments, CD4+ are expected to be weakly
   cytotoxic as compared to CD8+ cells.
15          The disclosure contemplates that combinations of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells
   will be utilized in the compositions. In one embodiment, combinations of CAR
   transduced CD4+ cells can be combined with CD8+ antigen reactive cells to the
   same antigenic specificity as the CAR. In other embodiments, CAR transduced
   CD8+ cells are combined with antigen reactive CD4+ cells. In yet another
20 embodiment, CAR modified CD4+ and CD8+ cells are combined.
            As described herein, the disclosure contemplates that CD4+ and CD8+ cells
   can be further separated into subpopulations, such as naive, central memory, and
   effector cell populations. As described herein, in some embodiments, naYve CD4+
   cells are CD45RO-, CD45RA+, CD62L+ CD4+ T cells. In some embodiments,
25 central memory CD4+ cells are CD62L positive and CD45RO positive. In some
   embodiments, effector CD4+ cells are CD62L negative and CD45RO positive. Each
   of these populations may be independently modified with a CAR.
           As described herein, in embodiments, memory T cells are present in both
   CD62L+ and CD62L- subsets of CD8+ peripheral blood lymphocytes. PBMC are
30 sorted into CD62L-CD8+ and CD62L+CD8+ fractions after staining with anti-CD8
   and anti- CD62L antibodies. In some embodiments, the expression of phenotypic
   markers of central memory TCM include CD62L, CCR7, CD28, CD3, and CD 127
   and are negative for granzyme B. In some embodiments, central memory T cells are
                                              22

   CD45RO+, CD62L+, CD8+ T cells. In some embodiments, effector TE are negative
   for CD62L, CCR7, CD28, and CD127, and positive for granzyme B and perforin. In
   some embodiments, naYve CD8+ T lymphocytes are characterized by CD8+,
   CD62L+, CD45RO+, CCR7+, CD28+ CD127+, and CD45RO+. Each of these
 5 populations may be independently modified with a CAR.
           Each of the subpopulations of CD4+ and CD8+ cells can be combined with
   one another. In a specific embodiment, modified naYve CD4+ cells are combined
   with modified central memory CD8+ T cells to provide a synergistic cytotoxic effect
   on antigen bearing cells, such as tumor cells.
10
   Methods.
           The disclosure provides methods of making adoptive immunotherapy
   compositions and uses or methods of using these compositions for performing
   cellular immunotherapy in a subject having a disease or disorder.
15         In embodiments, a method of manufacturing the compositions comprises
   obtaining a modified naYve CD4+ T helper cell, wherein the modified helper T
   lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen
   receptor comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the
   antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain.
20         In another embodiment, a method further comprises obtaining a modified
   CD8+ cytotoxic T cell, wherein the modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell
   preparation comprises CD8+ cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising
   an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen associated with the
   disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor
25         In another embodiment, a method comprises obtaining a modified CD8+
   cytotoxic T cell, wherein the modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation
   comprises CD8+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an
   extracellular antibody variable domain specific for the antigen associated with the
   disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor, and
3o further comprising combining the modified CD8+ cytotoxic T cells with an antigen
   specific CD4+ helper cell lymphocyte cell preparation.
            The preparation of the CD4+ and CD8+ cells that are modified with a CAR
   has been described above as well as in the examples. Antigen specific T
                                              23

   lymphocytes can be obtained from a patient having the disease or disorder or can be
   prepared by invitro stimulation of T lymphocytes in the presence of antigen.
   Subpopulations of CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes can also be isolated as described
   herein and combined in the methods of manufacturing.
 5         The disclosure also provides methods of performing cellular immunotherapy
   in a subject having a disease or disorder comprising: administering a composition of
   any one of claims 1-19. In other embodiments, a method comprises administering to
   the subject a genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that
   provides a cellular immune response, wherein the cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell
10 preparation comprises CD8 + T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
   comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an antigen
   associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T
   cell or other receptors and a genetically modified helper T lymphocyte cell
   preparation that elicits direct tumor recognition and augments the genetically
15 modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparations ability to mediate a cellular
   immune response, wherein the helper T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4
   + T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular antibody
   variable domain specific for the antigen associated with the disease or disorder and
   an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor.
20         In another embodiment, a method of performing cellular immunotherapy in
   subject having a disease or disorder comprises :administering to the subject a
   genetically modified helper T lymphocyte cell preparation, wherein the modified
   helper T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4+ T cells that have a chimeric
   antigen receptor comprising a extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an
25 antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling module
   of a T cell receptor. In an embodiments, the method further comprises administering
   to the subject a genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation,
   wherein the modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD8
   positive cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising a extracellular
30 antibody variable domain specific for the antigen associated with the disease or
   disorder and an intracellular signaling module of a T cell receptor.
           Another embodiment describes a method of performing cellular
   immunotherapy in a subject having a disease or disorder comprising: analyzing a
                                              24

   biological sample of the subject for the presence of an antigen associated with the
   disease or disorder and administering the adoptive immunotherapy compositions
   described herein, wherein the chimeric antigen receptor specifically binds to the
   antigen.
 5         A CAR is produced that has a component that provides for specific binding
   to an antigen associated with a disease or conditions, such as a solid tumor, cancer,
   viral infection, and an infection with a parasite. In embodiments, the intracellular
   signaling module of a T cell receptor of the chimeric antigen receptor comprises a
   transmembrane domain, a CD28 signaling domain, and a CD3 intracellular signaling
10 domain, or other domains of T cell costimulatory molecules. In some embodiments,
   the intracellular signaling molecule comprises the CD3 intracellular domain, a CD28
   domain, a CD28 transmembrane and signaling domain linked to a CD3 intracellular
   domain, or other domains of T cell costimulatory molecules.
           In alternative embodiments, the T cells can be modified with a recombinant
15 T cell receptor. TCR could be specific for any antigen, pathogen or tumor .There
   are TCRs for many tumor antigens in melanoma (MARTI, gp100 for example),
   leukemia (WTI, minor histocompatibility antigens for example), breast cancer
   (her2, NY-BRI for example).
           In some embodiments, the CD4+ T helper lymphocyte cell is selected from
20 the group consisting of naYve CD4+ T cells, central memory CD4+ T cells, effector
   memory CD4+ T cells or bulk CD4+ T cells. In a specific embodiment, CD4+
   helper lymphocyte cell is a nafve CD4+ T cell, wherein the naYve CD4+ T cell
   comprises a CD45RO-, CD45RA+, CD62L+ CD4+ T cell. In yet other
   embodiments, the CD8+ T cytotoxic lymphocyte cell is selected from the group
25 consisting of naYve CD8+ T cells, central memory CD8+ T cells, effector memory
   CD8+ T cells or bulk CD8+ T cells. In a specific embodiment, the CD8+ cytotoxic
   T lymphocyte cell is a central memory T cell wherein the central memory T cell
   comprises a CD45RO+, CD62L+, CD8+ T cell. In a specific embodiment, the CD8+
   cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell is a central memory T cell and the CD4+ helper T
30 lymphocyte cell is a nafve CD4+ T cell.
           In embodiments, the CD8+ T cell and the CD4+ T cell are both genetically
   modified with a CAR comprising an antibody heavy chain domain that specifically
   binds a pathogen or tumor-specific cell surface antigen. In other embodiments, the
                                              25

   intracellular signaling domain of the CD8 cytotoxic T cells is the same as the
   intracellular signaling domain of the CD4 helper T cells. In yet other embodiments,
   the intracellular signaling domain of the CD8 cytotoxic T cells is different than the
   intracellular signaling domain of the CD4 helper T cells.
 5          Subjects that can be treated by the present invention are, in general, human
   and other primate subjects, such as monkeys and apes for veterinary medicine
   purposes. The subjects can be male or female and can be any suitable age, including
   infant, juvenile, adolescent, adult, and geriatric subjects.
            The methods are useful in the treatment of, for example, solid tumor,
10 hematologic malignancy, melanoma, or infection with a virus or other pathogen.
   Infections with pathogens, include HIV, HCV, HBV, CMV, and parasitic disease. In
   some embodiments, the antigen associated with the disease or disorder is selected
   from the group consisting of orphan tyrosine kinase receptor RORI, tEGFR, Her2,
   L1-CAM, CD 19, CD20, CD22, mesothelin, CEA, and hepatitis B surface antigen.
15          Subjects that can be treated include subjects afflicted with cancer, including
   but not limited to colon, lung, liver, breast, prostate, ovarian, skin (including
   melanoma), bone, and brain cancer, etc. In some embodiments the tumor associated
   antigens are known, such as melanoma, breast cancer, squamous cell carcinoma,
   colon cancer, leukemia, myeloma, prostate cancer, etc. (in these embodiments
20 memory T cells can be isolated or engineered by introducing the T cell receptor
   genes). In other embodiments the tumor associated proteins can be targeted with
   genetically modified T cells expressing an engineered immunoreceptor. Examples
   include but are not limited to B cell lymphoma, breast cancer, prostate cancer, and
   leukemia.
25          Subjects that can be treated also include subjects afflicted with, or at risk of
   developing, an infectious disease, including but not limited to viral, retroviral,
   bacterial, and protozoal infections, etc. Subjects that can be treated include
   immunodeficient patients afflicted with a viral infection, including but not limited to
   Cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), adenovirus, BK polyomavirus
30 infections in transplant patients, etc.
            Cells prepared as described above can be utilized in methods and
   compositions for adoptive immunotherapy in accordance with known techniques, or
   variations thereof that will be apparent to those skilled in the art based on the instant
                                               26

   disclosure. See, e.g., US Patent Application Publication No. 2003/0170238 to
   Gruenberg et al; see also US Patent No. 4,690,915 to Rosenberg.
           In some embodiments, the cells are formulated by first harvesting them from
   their culture medium, and then washing and concentrating the cells in a medium and
 5 container system suitable for administration (a "pharmaceutically acceptable"
   carrier) in a treatment-effective amount. Suitable infusion medium can be any
   isotonic medium formulation, typically normal saline, Normosol R (Abbott) or
   Plasma-Lyte A (Baxter), but also 5% dextrose in water or Ringer's lactate can be
   utilized. The infusion medium can be supplemented with human serum albumin.
10         A treatment-effective amount of cells in the composition is at least 2 cells    (
   for example, ICD8+ central memory T cell and I CD4+ helper T cell subset) or is
   more typically greater than 10 2 cells, and up to 106, up to and including 108 or 109
   cells and can be more than 1010 cells. The number of cells will depend upon the
   ultimate use for which the composition is intended as will the type of cells included
15 therein. For example, if cells that are specific for a particular antigen are desired,
   then the population will contain greater than 70%, generally greater than 80%, 85%
   and 90-95% of such cells. For uses provided herein, the cells are generally in a
   volume of a liter or less, can be 500 mls or less, even 250 mls or 100 mls or less.
   Hence the density of the desired cells is typically greater than 106 cells/m1 and
20 generally is greater than 107 cells/ml, generally 108 cells/ml or greater. The clinically
   relevant number of immune cells can be apportioned into multiple infusions that
   cumulatively equal or exceed 109, 1010 or 1011 cells.
            In some embodiments, the lymphocytes of the invention may be used to
   confer immunity to individuals. By "immunity" is meant a lessening of one or more
25 physical symptoms associated with a response to infection by a pathogen, or to a
   tumor, to which the lymphocyte response is directed. The amount of cells
   administered is usually in the range present in normal individuals with immunity to
   the pathogen. Thus, the cells are usually administered by infusion, with each
                                                                           2
   infusion in a range of from 2 cells, up to at least 106 to 1010 cells/mi , preferably in
30 the range of at least 10 7 to 109 cells/m 2. The clones may be administered by a single
   infusion, or by multiple infusions over a range of time. However, since different
   individuals are expected to vary in responsiveness, the type and amount of cells
   infused, as well as the number of infusions and the time range over which multiple
                                                 27

    infusions are given are determined by the attending physician, and can be
   determined by routine examination. The generation of sufficient levels of T
   lymphocytes (including cytotoxic T lymphocytes and/or helper T lymphocytes) is
   readily achievable using the rapid expansion method of the present invention, as
 5 exemplified herein. See, e.g., US Patent No. 6,040,177 to Riddell et al. at column 17.
            The present invention is illustrated further in the examples sot forth below.
   EXPERIMENTAL
   Example 1 - T cell transduction and analysis of CAR expression
10          A RORI-specific CAR can be expressed in human CD8+ T cells and confers
   specific recognition of ROR I+ B-cell tumors and not mature normal B cells. We
   constructed a RORI -specific chimeric antigen receptor that when expressed in T
   cells from healthy donors or CLL patients conferred specific recognition of primary
   B-CLL and mantle cell lymphoma.
15 Materials and Methods
   Cell lines
            Epstein-Barr virus transformed B cells (EBV-LCL) were generated as
   described (25). The tumor cell lines Jeko-1, and, BALL-1, were provided by Drs
   Oliver Press and Jerald Radich (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center). All cell
20 lines were maintained in RPMI, 10% fetal calf serum, 0.8 mM L-glutamine, and 1%
   penicillin-streptomycin (LCL medium). K562 cells were obtained from the
   American Type Culture Collection.
   Transfection of K562 cells with ROR1
            For polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplification of the RORJ-gene, total
25 RNA was obtained from B-CLL cells (RNeasyPlusKit; QIAGEN) and reverse
   transcribed into cDNA with M-MLVReverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen).PCR was
   performed with specific primers
   (RORI-F: 5-XhoJAGAGGAGGAATGCACCGGCC-3 and
   RORJ-R: 5-XhoI-CACAGAAGGTACTTGTTGCGATGT-3)
30 using Herculase-II DNA Polymerase (Stratagene). The PCR product was cloned into
   the MIGR-l retroviral vector (23) and the sequence verified. Effectene transfection
   reagent (QIAGEN) was used to transfect Platinum-A cells (Cell Biolabs) with
   MIGR-1/ROR1 and produce RORJ-encoding retrovirus. K562 cells were retrovirally
                                               28

   transduced by centrifugation at 2500 rpm for 60 minutes at 320C, expanded, and the
   ROR I-positive subset was sort-purified.
   Real-time quantitative PCR
          First-strand cDNA of B-CLL, normal resting and activated B cells, and
 5 EBV-LCL was prepared as described in the previous paragraph. First-strand cDNA
   from normal tissues (Human Tissue panels I/1I, Blood Fractions) was obtained from
   Clontech. Expression of RORJ mRNA was analyzed in duplicate and normalized to
   GAPDH. Amplifications were performed on an ABI Prism 7900 (Applied
   Biosystems) in a 50 ptL reaction consisting of 25 pL Power SYBR Green PCR
10 Master Mix (Applied Biosystems), 2.5 ng of cDNA, and 300nM gene-specific
   forward and reverse primers:
   ROR1-F 5-AGCGTGCGATTCAAAGGATT-3,
   RORI-R 5-GACTGGTGCCGACGATGACT-3,
   GAPDH-F 5-GAAGGTGAAGGTCGGAGTC-3,
15 and GAPDH-R 5-GAAGATGGTGATGGGATTTC-3.
          The cycle threshold (Ct) was determined using SDS software v2.2.2
   (Applied Biosystems) and the level of gene expression calculated using the
   comparative Ct method (2-(AACt)).
   Vector construction and generation of lentivirus
20        CD20-CAR (CD20R-epHIV7) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)
   encoding lentiviral vectors (GFP-epHIV7) were described previously (24). The
   ROR I-CAR was encoded in the same vector. A mouse mAb (clone 2A2) that
   demonstrated specific binding to human RORI expressed on primary B-CLL and
   MCL tumor lines was generated, cloned, and characterized in a previous study. A
25 codon-optimized nucleotide sequence encoding a scFv containing the VL and VH
   chain of mAb 2A2 was synthesized (GENEART) and cloned into CD20R-epHIV7
   using NheI and RsrII restriction sites to replace the CD20-specific scFv. Lentivirus
   was produced in 293T cells cotransfected with the lentiviral vector and the
   packaging vectors pCHGP-2, pCMVRev2, and pCMV-G using Effectene (Qiagen).
30 Medium was changed 16 hours after transfection and lentivirus collected after 48
   hours.
   Lentiviral transduction and isolation of CAR-transduced Tcell clones
                                              29

           PBMC from healthy donors and B-CLL patients, and sort-purified
   CD8+CD45RO+CD62L+ central memory T cells (TCM) were activated with anti
   CD3 mAb (30 ng/mL) (25), and transduced in lentiviral supernatant supplemented
   with I pig/mL polybrene (Sigma-Aldrich) and 50 IU/mL recombinant human
 5 interleukin-2 (IL-2) on day 2 and 3 after activation by centrifugation at 2500 rpm for
   60 minutes at 32'C. T cells were expanded in RPMl containing 10% human serum,
   2 mM L-glutamine, and 1%penicillin streptomycin (CTL medium) (25). After
   expansion, an aliquot of each transduced T-cell line was stained with biotin
   conjugated anti-EGFR (epithelial growth factor receptor) mAb, streptavidin-PE, and
10 anti-CD8 mAb. EGFR+CD8+ T cells were sort purified and cloned by limiting
   dilution (0.5 cells/well) (25). RORI-CAR transduced T cells were identified by
   staining with biotinylated recombinant Fc-RORI extracellular domain fusion protein
   and streptavidin-PE. Recombinant ROR 1-protein was produced in transiently
   transfected 293F cells (Invitrogen), purified as described (26), and biotinylated using
15 the BiotinTag kit (Sigma). GFP-transduced CD8+ T cells were identified by flow
   cytometry, sort-purified, and cloned in similar fashion.
   Chromium release and cytokine secretion assays
           Target cells were labeled with   5Cr  (PerkinElmer) overnight, washed and
   incubated in triplicate at 1-2 x 103 cells/well with effector T cells at various effector
20 to target (E:T) ratios. Supernatants were harvested for y counting after a 4-hour
   incubation, and specific lysis was calculated using the standard formula (25).
   Results
           Transduced CD8+ T cells were sort-purified using a biotinylated anti-EGFR
   mAb and streptavidin conjugated dyes. RORI -CAR expression on the surface of the
25 sort-purified T cells was evaluated by staining the cells with a biotinylated
   recombinant Fc-RORI extracellular domain fusion protein that directly binds to the
   scFv of the RORI-CAR, and costaining with streptavidin-conjugates. Fc-RORI
   protein specifically stained CD8+ T cells transduced with the RORI-CAR lentiviral
   vector but not CD8+ T cells transduced with a control lentiviral vector encoding
30  GFP (Figure 1).
            We established RORI -CAR transduced (n = 10) and control GFP-transduced
    CD8+ T-cell clones (n= 4) by limiting dilution and confirmed the stable surface
    expression of the CAR after multiple rounds of in vitro expansion. There was no
                                               30

   apparent difference in the growth of RORI-CAR transduced compared with
   untransduced or GFP-transduced T-cell clones (data not shown).
           The RORI -CAR transduced T-cell clones efficiently lysed primary B-CLL
   and K562 cells that were stably transfected with the RORI-gene, but not native,
 5 RORi-negative K562 cells, demonstrating specific recognition of RORI (Figure 2).
   Discussion
           Adoptive immunotherapies that employ CAR-modified T cells are being
   investigated in clinical trials for B-cell malignancies. The surface molecules that are
   being targeted are B-cell lineage-specific and include CD19, which is expressed on
10 normal B-lineage cells from the pro-B-cell stage to plasma cells, and CD20, which is
   expressed on normal B cells from the pre-B-cell stage to memory B cells. Thus, an
   anticipated outcome of effective therapy targeting these molecules is depletion of
   normal B cells and B-cell precursors. Gene expression profiling studies have
   identified genes that are preferentially or exclusively expressed by malignant but not
15 by normal B cells and RORI emerged as a CLL signature gene in 2 independent
   analyses (27,28). Specific antibodies to RORI developed in CLL patients after
   vaccination with autologous tumor cells that had been modified to express CD154
   and treatment with lenalidomide without apparent toxicity to normal tissues,
   suggesting this tumor antigen may be a suitable target for immunotherapy (29,30).
20         Our studies illustrate the potential to target ROR I-positive malignant cells
   with engineered T cells expressing a RORl-CAR. CD8+ ROR 1-CAR T cells could
   be derived from both normal donors and CLL patients after lentiviral transduction of
   either bulk PBMCs or sort-purified TCM, that in animal models persist for extended
   periods after adoptive transfer (31). ROR1-CAR transduced T cells efficiently lysed
25 primary B-CLL, but not normal resting or activated B-cells. These T cells produced
   effector cytokines including TNF-a, IFNy, and IL-2, and were capable of
   proliferating in response to RORI-expressing tumor cells.
   Example 2 - Generation of CD4+ CAR T cell lines and analysis of effector
30 function
            CD4+ ROR I-CAR T cells can be generated from PBMC of healthy
    donors/CLL-patients. A RORI-specific CAR can be expressed in human CD4+ T
                                                31

    cells and confers specific recognition of ROR1+ B-cell tumors but not mature
   normal B cells.
   Materials and Methods
   Cell lines
 5          Epstein-Barr virus transformed B cells (EBV-LCL) were generated as
   described (25). The tumor cell lines Jeko-1, and BALL-1 were provided by Drs
   Oliver Press and Jerald Radich (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center). All cell
   lines were maintained in RPMI, 10% fetal calf serum, 0.8mM L-glutamine, and 1%
   penicillin-streptomycin (LCL medium). K562 and 293T cells were obtained from
10 the American Type Culture Collection and cultured as directed.
   Transfection of K562 cells with RORI
            For polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplification of the RORI-gene, total
   RNA was obtained from B-CLL cells (RNeasyPlusKit; QIAGEN) and reverse
   transcribed into cDNAwith M-MLVReverse Transcriptase (Invitrogen).PCR was
15 performed with specific primers
   (RORJ-F: 5-XhoIAGAGGAGGAATGCACCGGCC-3 and
   RORI-R: 5-XhoI-CACAGAAGGTACTTGTTGCGATGT-3)
   using Herculase-II DNA Polymerase (Stratagene). The PCR product was cloned into
   the MIGR-1 retroviral vector (23), and sequence verified. Effectene transfection
20 reagent (QIAGEN) was used to transfect Platinum-A cells (Cell Biolabs) with
   MIGR-1/RORJ and produce RORl-encoding retrovirus. K562 cells were retrovirally
   transduced by centrifugation at 2500 rpm for 60 minutes at 32'C, expanded, and the
   ROR 1-positive subset was sort-purified.
   Vector construction and generation of lentivirus
25          CD20-CAR (CD20R-epHIV7) and green fluorescent protein (GFP)
   encoding lentiviral vectors (GFP-epHIV7) were described previously (24). The
   RORI -CAR was encoded in the same vector. A mouse mAb (clone 2A2) that
   demonstrated specific binding to human RORI expressed on primary B-CLL and
   MCL tumor lines was generated, cloned, and characterized in a previous study. A
30 codon-optimized nucleotide sequence encoding a scFv containing the VL and VH
   chain of mAb 2A2 was synthesized (GENEART) and cloned into CD20R-epHIV7
   using NheI and RsrlI restriction sites to replace the CD20-specific scFv. Lentivirus
   was produced in 293T cells cotransfected with the lentiviral vector and the
                                              32

   packaging vectors pCHGP-2, pCMVRev2, and pCMV-G using Effectene (Qiagen).
   Medium was changed 16 hours after transfection and lentivirus collected after 48
   hours.
   Lentiviral transduction and isolation of CD4+ RORI-CAR T cell lines
 5         CD4+ T cells were isolated from PBMC of healthy donors and activated with
   anti-CD3 mAb (30 ng/mL) (25), and transduced in lentiviral supernatant
   supplemented with I Rg/mL polybrene (Sigma-Aldrich) and 50 IU/mL recombinant
   human interleukin-2 (IL-2) on day 2 and 3 after activation by centrifugation at 2500
   rpm for 60 minutes at 32'C. T cells were expanded in RPMI containing 10% human
10 serum, 2mM L-glutamine, and 1%penicillin streptomycin (CTL medium).(25) After
   expansion, an aliquot of each transduced T-cell line was stained with biotin
   conjugated anti-EGFR (epithelial growth factor receptor) mAb, streptavidin-PE, and
   anti-CD4 mAb. EGFR+CD4+ T cells were sort purified and expanded. RORI -CAR
   transduced T cells were identified by staining with biotinylated recombinant Fc
15 RORI extracellular domain fusion protein and streptavidin-PE. Recombinant
   ROR 1-protein was produced in transiently transfected 293 cells (Invitrogen),
   purified as described (26), and biotinylated using the BiotinTag kit (Sigma). GFP
   transduced CD4+ T cells were identified by flow cytometry, sort-purified, and
   cloned in similar fashion.
20 Chromium release and cytokine secretion assays
            Target cells were labeled with
                                             51
                                               Cr (PerkinElmer) overnight, washed and
    incubated in triplicate at 1-2 x 103 cells/well with effector T cells at various effector
   to target (E:T) ratios. Supernatants were harvested for y counting after a 4-hour
    incubation, and specific lysis was calculated using the standard formula (25).
25  For analysis of cytokine secretion, target and effector cells were plated in triplicate
    wells at an E/T ratio of 2:1, and interferon INFy, tumor necrosis factor (TNF-a), and
    IL-2 were measured by multiplex cytokine immunoassay (Luminex) in supernatant
    removed after a 24-hour incubation.
    CFSE proliferation assay
30          T cells were labeled with 0.2 [tM carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester
    (CFSE; Invitrogen), washed, and plated with stimulator cells at a ratio of 2:1 in CTL
    medium containing 10 U/mL recombinant human IL-2. After a 72-hour incubation,
    cells were labeled with anti-CD4 mAb and propidium iodide (PI) to exclude dead
                                                33

   cells from analysis. Samples were analyzed by flow cytometry, and cell division of
   live CD4+ T cells assessed by CFSE dilution.
   Co-culture assay
            ROR 1-CAR transduced CD4+ T cells and RORI -CAR transduced CD8+
 5 cytotoxic T lymphocytes were labeled with CFSE, and co-cultured at a 2:1, 1:1 and
   1:2 ratio. The co-cultures were then stimulated with K562/RORI cells and control
   K562 cells and cell proliferation measured by CFSE dye dilution assay after 5 days
   of incubation. For flow analysis, samples were stained with conjugated anti-CD8
   and anti-CD4 mAb to distinguish CD8+ and CD4+ subsets.
10 Results
   Generationof CD4' RORI-CAR T cellsfrom PBMC of healthy donors and CLL
   patients
            We have shown that RORI, an oncofetal tyrosine kinase receptor, is
   uniformly expressed on CLL and MCL, and developed a RORI-CAR from an anti
15 RORl mAb that confers specific recognition of malignant, but not mature normal B
   cells when expressed in CD8' T cells (32). Here, we generated CD4+ RORI-CAR T
   cells to analyze direct tumor recognition and their ability to augment CD8' RORI
   CAR CTL. CAR-modified CD4* T cells could be readily generated from bulk
   peripheral CD4* T cells of healthy donors (n=4) and CLL patients (n=4) using a
20 ROR 1-CAR encoding lentiviral vector. In this vector, we encoded a truncated EGFR
   (epithelial growth factor receptor, tEGFR) domain downstream of the ROR I-CAR
   and a self-cleavable 2A element, to serve both as transduction marker and for the
   enrichment of transgene expressing T cells with anti-EGFR mAb (Figure 3). We
   determined the frequency of CAR-modified T cells on d12 after a single
25 transduction with RORI -CAR encoding lentivirus (MOI=3) using the tEGFR
   marker and found consistently higher transduction efficiencies in CD4* compared to
   CD8* CAR T cell lines obtained from the same individuals. To confirm expression
   of the ROR1-CAR on the surface of CD4* T cells, we utilized biotinylated
   recombinant Fc-RORI extracellular domain fusion protein that directly binds to the
30 scFv of the RORI-CAR and specifically stained CD4*T cells transduced with
   RORI-CAR lentivirus but not untransduced control CD4+ T cells (Figure 3). We
   enriched transgene expressing CD4* T cells using the tEGFR marker and expanded
   the CAR-positive T cell subset by stimulation with anti-CD3 mAb. More than 3-log
                                             34

     expansion of CD4' CAR T cells could be achieved at the end of a 14-day
     stimulation cycle, which is equivalent to the amplification observed in CD8* CAR
     CTL. After expansion, we confirmed stable expression of the ROR I-CAR on the
     cell surface of CD4* CAR T cells (data not shown) and analyzed recognition of
  5  RORI-positive tumor cells.
     CD4' RORI-CAR T cells specifically recognize RORI-positive tumors
             We analyzed the effector function of CD4* RORI-CAR T cells against
    RORI -positive primary tumor cells and tumor cell lines. We analyzed the ability of
10  CD44 CAR T cells to confer direct cytotoxicity by chromium release assay (CRA)
    and detected weak but specific lysis of RORI-positive target cells at the end of the
    standard 4-hour incubation (Figure 4). We extended the CRA to 10 hours and
    observed a further increase in specific lysis, however, the overall cytolytic activity
    of CD4+ CAR T cells was still lower than CD8' RORI-CAR CTL (Figure 2, 4).
15  CD4+ ROR1-CAR T cells from both healthy donors and CLL patients specifically
    recognized primary CLL cells, the ROR1-positive tumor cell lines Jeko-1 (MCL)
    and BALL-I (B-ALL), and K562 cells that were stably transfected with the RORl
    gene (K562/RORI) but not native RORI-negative K562 cells by IFN-y ELISA,
    demonstrating specific recognition of RORI on the cell surface of target cells
20  (Figure 5A). Multiplex cytokine analysis revealed production of other ThI cytokines
    such as TNF-a and IL-2 at significantly higher levels compared to CD8* CAR CTL,
    and production of IL-4, IL-10 and IL-17 (Figure 5B).
             Next, we evaluated the proliferation of CD4* CAR T cells after stimulation
    with ROR1-positive tumor cells by CFSE staining and used stringent culture
25  conditions without addition of exogenous cytokines to remove any potential
    unspecific stimulus. CD4* CAR T cells showed dramatic and specific proliferation
    in response to RORI -positive tumor cells. Both the percentage of T cells that was
    induced to proliferate and the number of cell divisions that the proliferating subset
    performed was significantly higher in CD4* compared to CD8' CAR T cells (Figure
30  6). Collectively, our data demonstrate that CD4* T cells obtained from both healthy
    donors and CLL patients acquire anti-tumor reactivity after genetic modification
    with a ROR 1-specific CAR. Moreover, the ability to proliferate in the absence of
    exogenous cytokines and to produce high levels of Thl cytokines suggest that CD4'
                                               35

   CAR T cells exert typical helper functions after stimulation through the CAR and in
   addition to conferring direct anti-tumor effects, could also be utilized to augment
   CD8' CAR CTL.
 5 CAR-modified, but not untransducedCD4' T cells provide help to CD8' CAR CTL
         To analyze whether CD4* CAR T cells are able to provide help to CD8* CAR
   CTL, we performed co-culture experiments with CAR-transduced and control
   untransduced polyclonal CD4* and CD8* T cell lines that we established from
   healthy donors and CLL patients. As readout for provision of help, we defined an
10 improvement in tumor-specific CD8* effector function in the presence of CD4* T
   cells compared to CD8* T cells cultured alone. We combined either CAR
   transduced or untransduced control CD4' T cells with CD8' CAR CTL at distinct
   CD4:CD8 ratios (2:1, 1:1, 1:2), stimulated them with ROR I-positive tumor cells and
   measured proliferation by CFSE dye dilution. We found, that the addition of CAR
15 transduced, but not untransduced CD4* T cells to CD8+ CAR CTL significantly
   increased specific proliferation of the CD8+ subset compared to CD8' CAR CTL
   alone (Figure 7). The increase in proliferation was most pronounced, when at least
   an equivalent amount of CD4* CAR T cells (CD4:CD8 ratio of 2:1 or 1:1) was
   added to the co-culture. The combination of untransduced CD4* with untransduced
20 CD8 T cells served as additional control and did not induce unspecific proliferation
   in the CD8* subset (data not shown).
   Discussion
            Gene expression profiling studies have identified genes that are preferentially
    or exclusively expressed by malignant but not by normal B cells and ROR1 emerged
25  as a CLL signature gene in 2 independent analyses (27,28). Our studies illustrate the
    potential to target RORI-positive malignant cells with engineered T cells expressing
    a ROR1-CAR. CD8 and CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells could be derived from normal
    donors after lentiviral transduction of either bulk PBMCs or sort-purified T cells.
    CD8+ RORI-CAR transduced T cells efficiently lysed primary B-CLL, but not
30  normal resting or activated B-cells. CD4+ RORI -CAR transduced T cells weakly
    lysed primary B-CLL, but not normal resting or activated B-cells. These T cells
    produced effector cytokines including TNF-a, IFNy, IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10. CAR
    transduced CD4+ T cells produced significantly higher amounts of cytokines than
                                                36

   the transduced CD8+ cells. Both cell types were capable of proliferating in response
   to ROR1-expressing tumor cells. Again, CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells proliferated 2-3
   fold higher than CD8+ ROR 1-CAR CTLs. These results indicate that the transduced
   CD4+ helper T cells exert typical helper functions suggesting they could be utilized
 5 to augment CD8+ CAR CTLs.
   Example 3 - The effector function of CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells from derived
   from naive, central and effector memory subsets
            The effector function of CD4 T cells derived from naYve, central and effector
10 memory subsets and then modified with the RORI CAR were compared.
   Materials and Methods
   Sort purification of naYve, central, and effector memory CD4 cells
            CD4+ T cells were isolated from PBMC of a healthy donor using negative
   magnetic bead selection (Miltenyi CD4 isolation kit) that yields untouched CD4+ T
15 cells. The CD4+ fraction was labeled with conjugated anti-CD45RA, anti-CD45RO
   and anti-CD62L mAb and flow sort purified using a FACS Aria flow sorter (BD
   Biosciences), and naYve (CD45RA+ CD45RO- CD62L+), central memory
   (CD45RA- CD45RO+ CD62L+) and effector memory (CD45RA- CD45RO+
   CD62L-) CD4+ T cells purified based on expression of these defined markers.
20 CFSE proliferation assay
             T cells were labeled with 0.2 pM carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester
    (CFSE; Invitrogen), washed, and plated with stimulator cells at a ratio of 2:1 in CTL
    medium containing 10 U/mL recombinant human IL-2. After a 72-hour incubation,
    cells were labeled with anti-CD8 or CD4 mAb and propidium iodide (PI) to exclude
25  dead cells from analysis. Samples were analyzed by flow cytometry, and cell
    division of live CD8+ and CD4 +T cells assessed by CFSE dilution.
    Cytokine assays
             For analyses of cytokine secretion, target and effector cells were plated in
    triplicate wells at an E/T ratio of 2:1, and interferon INFy, tumor necrosis factor
30  (TNF-a), and IL-2 were measured by multiplex cytokine immunoassay (Luminex) in
    supernatant removed after a 24-hour incubation.
                                                37

   Results
           We flow sort purified CD4+ N, central (CM) and effector memory (EM)
   CD4+ T cells from the peripheral blood of 3 healthy donors based on expression of
   CD45RA, CD45RO and CD62L (Figure 8A), and compared their effector function
 5 after modification with the ROR 1-CAR. We achieved similarly high transduction
   efficiencies in CAR T cell lines derived from each of the three subsets.
   Multiparameter flow cytometry after enrichment of transgene expressing T cells
   showed expression of CD45RO and loss of CD45RA in the CD4* N CAR T cell
   line, consistent with an activated phenotype after the lentiviral transduction. The
10 CD4* N, CM and EM CAR T cell lines retained differential expression of CD62L,
   confirming that the initial flow sort purification had been performed with high
   purity.
           Then, we analyzed tumor recognition, cytokine secretion and proliferation of
   CD4' CAR T cells derived from N, CM and EM subsets and compared them to the
15 CAR T cell lines generated from bulk CD4+ T cells. We observed specific
   recognition of RORI -positive tumor cells by IFN-7 ELISA in each of the cell lines.
   Multiplex cytokine analysis revealed that CD4* CAR T cells derived from the N
   subset produced by far the highest levels of Th I cytokines, especially IL-2 (Figure
   8C) and CFSE dye dilution showed they proliferated most vigorously in response to
20 stimulation with ROR I-positive tumor cells (Figure 8B).
   Discussion
           Our studies illustrate the potential to target RORI-positive malignant cells
   with engineered T cells expressing a RORI -CAR. CD8 and CD4+ RORI -CAR T
   cells could be derived from both normal donors after lentiviral transduction of either
25 bulk PBMCs and sort-purified T cells from defined naYve or memory T cell subsets.
   CD4+ naYve, central memory, and effector T cells produced effector cytokines
   including TNFa, IFNI, IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10. CAR-transduced CD4+ cells derived
   from the naYve subset produced significantly higher amounts of TNFa and IL-2 than
   central and effector memory derived CD4+ CAR T cells after signaling through the
30 CAR. All CD4 cell types were capable of proliferating in response to ROR1/K562,
   however in the CAR-transduced CD4+ cells derived from the naYve subset, the
   percentage of T cells that was induced to proliferate and the number of cell divisions
   that the proliferating subset underwent were significantly higher. Both cytokine
                                                38

   profile and proliferative capacity indicate that naive CD4+ RORI-CAR T cells may
   be best suited to augment CD8+ RORI -CAR CTL.
   Example 4 - Naive CD4+ T cells are better helpers than memory CD4+ T cells
 5          Nafve, central memory, and effector transduced CD4+ T cells were
   cocultured with transduced CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes and the proliferative
   response of the cells was measured in response to stimulation with K562/RORI
   cells.
   Materials and methods
10 Co-culture
            Naive, central and effector memory derived RORI-CAR transduced CD4+ T
   cells and ROR1-CAR transduced CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes derived from
   naYve and central memory CD8+ T cells were labeled with CFSE, and CD4+ and
   CD8+ CAR T cell lines co-cultured at a 1:1 ratio. The co-cultures were then
15 stimulated with K562/ROR1 cells and control K562 cells and cell proliferation was
   measured by CFSE dye dilution assay after 5 days of incubation. For flow analysis,
   samples were stained with conjugated anti-CD8 and anti-CD4 mAb to distinguish
   CD8+ and CD4+ subsets.
   Results
20 CD4' naive CAR T cells have a superiorability to augment the effector function of
   CD8' CAR CTL
            We compared the helper function of CD4* N, CM and EM CAR T cell lines
   to determine whether the favorable cytokine profile and proliferative potential of
    CD4* N CAR T cells would also translate into the strongest helper effect for CD8'
25 CAR CTL. Previous work has demonstrated that there are intrinsic differences
    between N, CM and EM CD8* T cells that affect their potential utility for adoptive
                                                                                       4
    immunotherapy. Our group has recently shown that CM but not EM derived CD8 T
    cells are able to persist for extended periods after adoptive transfer which makes
    them a preferred subset of CD8* T cells for immunotherapy (33,34). Other groups
30  suggested that CD8* N T cells may also possess favorable traits for use in T cell
    therapy (35,36). Thus, we generated CD8* CAR CTLs from sort purified N and CM
    T cells to determine the optimal combination of CD8* and CD4* CAR T cell
    subsets. Following lentiviral transduction and enrichment of CAR-transduced CD8'
                                                39

    T cells using the tEGFR marker, we confirmed tumor-reactivity of the CD8* N, and
    CM CAR CTLs (data not shown) and performed co-culture experiments with CD4'
    CAR T cells as before. As anticipated, co-culture of CD8' N and CM CAR CTL
    with CD4* N CAR T cells resulted in significantly higher tumor-specific
 5  proliferation of the CD8* subset compared to co-culture with CD4* CM or EM CAR
    T cells, or the CD8* CAR CTL alone (Figure 9). Out of all combinations, maximum
    proliferation of the CD8' CAR CTL in response to stimulation with RORI-positive
   tumor cells was observed after co-culture of CD4* N CAR T cells with CD8* CM
   CAR CTL (Figure 9). Collectively, our data demonstrate that there are intrinsic
10  differences between N, CM and EM CD4* T cells in their cytokine profile and
   proliferative potential, with higher production of IL-2 and superior proliferation in
   CD4* N T cells. Our data suggest that sort purified N, rather than CM, EM or bulk
   CD4* T cells may be best suited to augment the effector function of CD8' CTL, and
   complement previous work in CD8* T cells that CM derived CD8+ T cells possess
15 favorable characteristics for use in adoptive immunotherapy.
   Discussion
            Collectively, these data demonstrate that the adoptive transfer of RORI -CAR
   modified CD4+ and CD8' T cells confers potent anti-tumor responses in an in vivo
   model of aggressive systemic lymphoma and provide evidence for a beneficial and
20 synergistic effect of CD4' CAR T cells on the anti-tumor efficacy of CD8* CAR
   CTL. Our data illustrate how the analysis of cell-intrinsic qualities can inform the
   rational design of cell products containing both tumor-specific CD8' and CD4* T
   cells to improve outcomes of cancer immunotherapy.
25 Example 5 - Mouse tumor model of systemic mantle cell lymphoma (NSG/Jeko
   1-ffLue)
            We examined the effect of providing CD4 help on the anti-tumor efficacy of
   RORI-CAR modified CD8' CTL in an in vivo model of aggressive systemic mantle
   cell lymphoma.
30 Materials and Methods
            Sublethally irradiated NOD/SCID/gamma-' (NSG) mice were engrafted via
   tail vein injection with 5x1 05 Jeko-1 cells that had been stably transfected with
   firefly luciferase (Jeko-1/ffLuc) to enable assessment of tumor burden and
                                               40

   distribution using bioluminescence imaging. We confirmed the consistent
   engraftment (take rate = 100%) and development of rapidly progressive
   disseminated lymphoma in NSG mice under these conditions. Following tumor
   engraftment, groups of 3 mice received either CD8* CAR CTLs (group 1), CD4*
 5 CAR T cells (group 2), a combination of CD8* and CD4* RORI-CAR transduced T
   cells (group 3), untransduced control T cells (group 4,5,6) via tail vein injection or
   no treatment (group 7). The total number of transferred T cells was 10x10 6 in all
   cases. We obtained eye bleeds from the mice 2 days after adoptive transfer and
   confirmed the presence of ROR I-CAR transduced or untransduced T cells in the
10 peripheral blood.
   Results
           On day 6 after T-cell transfer, we performed bioluminescence imaging to
   evaluate tumor burden. The strongest anti-tumor effect was observed in mice that
   received the combination of CD8' and CD4* RORI -CAR T cells, with >2 log
15 reduction in bioluminescence signal compared to the control group (Figure 10). We
   also observed a strong anti-tumor effect in mice that received either CD8' or CD4*
   ROR1-CAR modified T cells, with >1 log reduction in bioluminescence signal
   compared to controls (Figure 10). Importantly, the reduction in tumor burden after
   administration of the CD8*/CD4* CAR T cell combination was greater than that of
20 the CD8* CAR CTL and CD4* CAR T cell groups combined suggesting that CD4*
   CAR T cells and CD8* CAR CTL were working synergistically.
   Discussion
           Collectively, these data demonstrate that the adoptive transfer of RORI-CAR
   modified CD4* and CD8* T cells confers potent anti-tumor responses in an in vivo
25 model of aggressive systemic lymphoma and provide evidence for a beneficial and
   synergistic effect of CD4* CAR T cells on the anti-tumor efficacy of CD8* CAR
   CTL. Our data illustrate how the analysis of cell-intrinsic qualities can inform the
   rational design of cell products containing both tumor-specific CD8+ and CD4* T
   cells to improve outcomes of cancer immunotherapy.
30
                                              41

   Example 6 - CD19 CAR T cells exhibit the same synergy
            We examined the effect of providing CD4 help on the anti-tumor efficacy of
   CD19 modified CD8* CTL in coculture in vitro and in an in vivo model of
   aggressive systemic mantle cell lymphoma.
 5 Materials and Methods
            CD19 CAR T cells can be prepared as described in US 2008/0131415, which
   is hereby incorporated by reference.
   Co-culture assay
            CD19-CAR transduced CD4+ T cells and CD19-CAR transduced CD8+
10 cytotoxic T lymphocytes were labeled with CFSE, and co-cultured at a 2:1, 1:1 and
   1:2 ratio. The co-cultures were then stimulated with K562/RORI cells and control
   K562 cells and cell proliferation measured by CFSE dye dilution assay after 5 days
   of incubation. For flow analysis, samples were stained with conjugated anti-CD8
   and anti-CD4 mAb to distinguish CD8+ and CD4+ subsets.
15 In vivo model
            Sublethally irradiated NOD/SCID/gamma         (NSG) mice were engrafted via
   tail vein injection with 5x10 5 Jeko-l cells that had been stably transfected with
   firefly luciferase (Jeko-1/ffLuc) to enable assessment of tumor burden and
   distribution using bioluminescence imaging. We confirmed the consistent
20 engraftment (take rate = 100%) and development of rapidly progressive
   disseminated lymphoma in NSG mice under these conditions. Following tumor
   engraftment, groups of 3 mice received either CD8' CD19 CAR CTLs (group 1),
   CD4* CD 19 CAR T cells (group 2), a combination of CD8* and CD4' CD19CAR
   transduced T cells (group 3), untransduced control T cells (group 4,5,6) via tail vein
25 injection or no treatment (group 7), The total number of transferred T cells was
   10x10 6 in all cases. We obtained eye bleeds from the mice 2 days after adoptive
   transfer.
            Results
            Figure 10 shows the superior ability of CD4+ CAR T-cell lines derived from
30 the naive subset to augment tumor-specific proliferation of central memory-derived
   CD8+ CAR CTL in co-culture experiments with CD8+ CDI 9-CAR CTLs and
   CD4+ CD19-CAR T-cell lines, stimulated with the CD 19+ mantle cell lymphoma
   tumor line Jeko-1.Although, CD4+ CAR T-cell lines derived from the central or
                                               42

   effector memory subset augment tumor-specific proliferation of central memory
   derived CD8+ CAR CTL to much less extent.
            Fig. I1 shows that CD8+ CAR T cells and CD4+ CAR T cells independently
   confer direct anti-tumor efficacy in a lymphoma model in immunodeficient mice
 5 (NOD/SCID-Raji). . Mice received either CD19-CAR transduced or control mock
   transduced CD8+ central memory-derived (A), or CD 19-CAR transduced or control
   mock-transduced CD4+ naYve-derived T cells (B).
            Fig. 12 shows the augmentation and synergistic effect CD4+ RORI -CAR
   modified T cells on the anti-tumor efficacy of CD8+ROR1-CAR CTLs in a mouse
10 tumor model of systemic mantle cell lymphoma (NSG/Jeko-1-ffLuc). Anti-tumor
   efficacy of ROR1-CAR modified CD8+ and CD4+ T cells in a mouse tumor model
   of systemic aggressive mantle cell lymphoma (NSG/Jeko-1) was enhanced as
   compared to either cell population alone or when compared to untransduced cells..
            Fig. 13 shows synergy of CD8+ and CD4+ CD19-CAR T cells in a mouse
15 model of systemic lymphoma (NSG/Raji). Engraftment of the Raji tumor was
   confirmed by bioluminescence imaging on day 6 after tumor inoculation (before
   treatment) (treatment scheme shown in A, tumor engraftment by bioluminescence
   shown in B). Analysis of tumor burden using bioluminescence imaging showed
   complete eradication of the Raji tumors in the cohorts of mice treated with CD8+
20 CD19-CAR T cells, and in mice treated with the combined CD8+ and CD4+ CDI 9
   CAR T-cell product (after treatment middle black and grey bars) B). The mice were
   then challenged with a second inoculum of Raji tumor cells and the frequency of
   CD4+ and CD8+ CAR T cells in the peripheral blood, and tumor engraftment were
   analyzed. In mice treated with a combined CD8+ and CD4+ CAR T-cell product,
25  significantly higher levels CD8+ CAR T cells after the tumor challenge (C lower
   panels), and complete rejection of the Raji inoculum (after tumor challenge right
    grey bar, B). In contrast, in mice that had received CD8+ CDI 9-CAR CTL alone,
   we did not detect an increase in CAR T cells after the tumor challenge (C) and the
    Raji tumor cells were able to engraft (after tumor challenge right black bar, panel B).
30          Discussion
            Collectively, these data demonstrate that transducing the cells with another
    CAR construct, CD1 9, CD] 9-CAR modified CD4* and CD8+ T cells confer potent
    anti-tumor responses in an in vivo model of aggressive systemic lymphoma and
                                               43

   provide evidence for a beneficial and synergistic effect of CD4* CAR T cells on the
   anti-tumor efficacy of CD8* CAR CTL.
             The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention, and is not to be
 5 construed as limiting thereof. The invention is defined by the following claims, with
   equivalents of the claims to be included therein. All references and documents
   referred to herein are hereby incorporated by reference.
   REFERENCES
10          1.     Cheever, M. A., et al., Specificity of adoptive chemoimmunotherapy
   of established syngeneic tumors. J. Immunol. 125, 711-714 (1980).
           2.      Pahl-Seibert, M.-F. et al. Highly protective in vivo function of
   cytomegalovirus IEl epitope-specific memory CD8 T cells purified by T-cell
   receptor-based cell sorting. J. Virol. 79, 5400-5413 (2005).
15         3.      Riddell, S R. et al. Restoration of viral immunity in immunodeficient
   humans by the adoptive transfer of T cell clones. Science 257, 238-241 (1992).
           4.       Walter, E. A. et al. Reconstitution of cellular immunity against
   cytomegalovirus in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow by transfer of T-cell clones
   from the donor. N. Engl. J. Med. 333, 1038-1044 (1995).
20          5.     Rooney, C. M. et al. Infusion of cytotoxic T cells for the prevention
   and treatment of Epstein-Barr virus-induced lymphoma in allogeneic transplant
   recipients. Blood 92, 1549-1555 (1998).
            6.     Dudley, M. E. et al. Cancer regression and autoimmunity in patients
   after clonal repopulation with antitumor lymphocytes. Science 298, 850-854 (2002)/
25          7.     Bollard, C. M. et al. Cytotoxic T lymphocyte therapy for Epstein
   Barr virus+ Hodgkin's disease. J. Exp. Med. 200, 1623-1633 (2004).
            8.     Dudley, M. E. et aL. Adoptive cell transfer therapy following
   nonmyeloablative but lymphodepleting chemotherapy for the treatment of patients
   with refractory metastatic melanoma. J. Clin. Oncol. 23, 2346-2357 (2005).
30          9.      Gattinoni, L., Powell Jr, D. J., Rosenberg, S. A., & Restifo, N. P.
   Adoptive immunotherapy for cancer: building on success. Nat. Rev. Immunol. 6,
   383-393 (2006).
                                                44

            10.     Blattman, J. N. & Greenberg, P. D. Cancer Immunotherapy: A
   treatment for the masses. Science 305, 200-205 (2004).
            11.     Kessels, H. W. H. G. et al. Immunotherapy through TCR gene
   transfer. Nat. Immuno!. 2, 957-961 (2001).
 5          12.     Stanislawski, T. et al. Circumventing tolerance to a human MDM2
   derived tumor antigen by TCR gene transfer. Nat. Immunol. 2, 962-970 (2001).
            13.     Brentjens, R. J. et al. Eradication of systemic B-cell tumors by
   genetically targeted human T lymphocytes co-stimulated by CD80 and interleukin
   15. Nat. Med. 9, 279-286 (2003).
10          14.     Morgan, R. A. et al. Cancer regression in patients after transfer of
   genetically engineered lymphocytes. Science advance online publication Aug. 31,
   (2006). DOI: 10.1 126/science. 1129003
            15.     Bleakley, M. & Riddell, S. R. Molecules and mechanisms of the graft
   versus leukemia effect. Nat. Rev, Cancer 4, 371-380 (2004).
15          16.     Dudley, M. E. et al. Adoptive transfer of cloned melanoma-reactive T
   lymphocytes for the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma. J. Immunother.
   24, 363-373 (2001).
             17.    Yee, C. et al. Adoptive T cell therapy using antigen-specific CD8+ T
   cell clones for the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma: In vivo
20 persistence, migration, and antitumor effect of transferred cells. Proc. Natl. Acad.
   Sci. USA 99, 16168-16173 (2002).
             18.    Sallusto, F. et al., Central memory and effector memory T cell
   subsets: function, generation, and maintenance. Annu. Rev. Immunol. 22, 745-763
   (2004).
25           19.    Butcher, E. C. & Picker, L. J. Lymphocyte homing and homeostasis.
   Science 272, 60-66 (1996).
            21.     Dudley, M. E. et al. A phase I study of nonmyeloablative
    chemotherapy and adoptive transfer of autologous tumor antigen-specific T
    lymphocytes in patients with metastatic melanoma. J Immunother. 25, 243-251
30  (2002).
            22.     Gattinorti, L. et al. Acquisition of full effector function in vitro
    paradoxically impairs the in vivo antitumor efficacy of adoptively transferred CD8+
    T cells. J. Clin. Invest. 115, 1616-1626 (2005).
                                                 45

            23.    Schmitt TM, Ciofani M, Petrie HT,Zuniga-Plucker JC. Maintenance
   of T cell specification and differentiation requires recurrent notch receptor-ligand
   interactions. JExp Med. 2004;200(4):469-479.
            24.    Wang J, Press OW, Lindgren CG, et al. Cellular immunotherapy for
 5 follicular lymphoma using genetically modified CD20-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T
   lymphocytes. Mol Ther. 2004;9(4): 577-586.
            25.    Riddell SR, Greenberg PD. The use of anti-CD3 and anti-CD28
   monoclonal antibodies to clone and expand human antigen-specific T cells. J
   Immunol Methods. 1990;128(2):189-201.
10          26.    Baskar S, Kwong KY, Hofer T, et al. Unique cell surface expression
   of receptor tyrosine kinase RORI in human B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
   Clin Cancer Res. 2008;14(2):396-404.
            27.    Klein U, Tu Y, Stolovitzky GA, et al. Gene expression profiling of B
   cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia reveals a homogeneous phenotype related to
15 memory B cells. JExp Med. 2001;194(11):1625- 1638.
            28.    Rosenwald A, Alizadeh AA, Widhopf G, et al, Relation of gene
   expression phenotype to immunoglobulin mutation genotype in B cell chronic
   lymphocytic leukemia. JExp Med. 2001;
            29.    Fukuda T, Chen L, Endo T, et al. Antisera induced by infusions of
20 autologous Ad-CD1 54-leukemia B cells identify RORI as an oncofetal antigen and
   receptor for Wnt5a. Proc Natl AcadSci USA. 2008;105(8):3047-3052.
            30.    Lapalombella R, Andritsos L, Liu    Q, et al. Lenalidomide treatment
   promotes CD154 expression on CLL cells and enhances production of antibodies by
   normal     B   cells  through   a  P13-kinase-dependent     pathway.  Blood. 2010;
25  115(13):2619-2629.
            31.    Berger C, Jensen MC, Lansdorp PM, Gough M, Elliott C, Riddell
    SR, Adoptive transfer of effector CD8+ T cells derived from central memory cells
    establishes persistent T cell memory in primates. J Clin Invest. 2008;1 18(1):294
    305.
                                              46

   THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
            1.       An adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition comprising:
            a) an antigen-reactive chimeric antigen receptor modified CD4+ T helper
 5 cell that elicits direct tumor recognition and augments the CD8+ immune response
   to pathogens, wherein the helper T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4 + T
   cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular antibody
   variable domain specific for an antigen associated with a disease or disorder and an
   intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor; and
10          b) physiologically acceptable excipient.
            2.       An adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition of claim 1, further
   comprising:
            c) a genetically modified CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that
15 comprises CD8+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an
   extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an antigen associated with a
   disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling domain of a T cell receptor.
            3.       An adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition of claim 1, further
20 comprising:
            c) an antigen specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation that
   elicits a cellular immune response comprising CD8+ T cells derived from the
   patient.
25          4.       An adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition of any one of
   claims 1-3, wherein the antigen -reactive chimeric antigen receptor modified CD4+
   T helper cell is derived from CD45RO negative, CD62L positive CD4 positive T
   cells.
            5.       The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
30 one of claims 1-4, wherein the CD4+ T helper lymphocyte cell is selected from the
   group consisting of naive CD4+ T cells, central memory CD4+ T cells, effector
   memory CD4+ T cells, or bulk CD4+ T cells.
                                              47

           6.     The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to claim
   5, wherein the CD4+ helper lymphocyte cell is a naive CD4+ T cell, wherein the
   naive CD4+ T cell comprises a CD45RO-, CD45RA+, CD62L+ CD4+ T cell.
 5         7.     The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-6, wherein the CD8+ T cytotoxic lymphocyte cell is selected from
   the group consisting of naive CD8+ T cells, central memory CD8+ T cells, effector
   memory CD8+ T cells or bulk CD8+ T cells.
10         8.     The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to claim
   7, wherein the CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell is a central memory T cell
   wherein the central memory T cell comprises a CD45RO+, CD62L+, CD8+ T cell.
           9.     The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
15 one of claims 1-8, wherein the CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell is a central
   memory T cell and the CD4+ helper T lymphocyte cell is a naive CD4+ T cell.
           10.    The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-9, wherein the disease or disorder is a solid tumor, hematologic
20 malignancy, melanoma, or infection with a virus.
           11.    The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-10, wherein the antigen associated with the disease or disorder is a
   tumor associated cell surface antigen.
25
           12.    The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-10, wherein the antigen associated with the disease or disorder is
   selected from the group consisting of orphan tyrosine kinase receptor RORI,
   tEGFR, Her2, LI-CAM, CD 19, CD20, CD22, mesothelin, CEA, and hepatitis B
30 surface antigen.
                                            48

          13.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-12, wherein the chimeric antigen receptor comprises a single-chain
   antibody-derived chimeric antigen receptor.
 5        14.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-13, wherein the intracellular signaling module of a T cell receptor of
   the chimeric antigen receptor comprises a transmembrane domain, a CD28 signaling
   domain, and a CD3 intracellular signaling domain, or other domains of T cell
   costimulatory molecules.
10
          15.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to claim
    14, wherein the intracellular signaling domain comprises a CD28 transmembrane
   and signaling domain linked to a CD3 intracellular domain.
15        16.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-15, wherein the intracellular signaling domain of the CD8+
   cytotoxic T cells is the same as the intracellular signaling domain of the CD4+
   helper T cells.
20        17.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to any
   one of claims 1-15, wherein the intracellular signaling domain of the CD8+
   cytotoxic T cells is different than the intracellular signaling domain of the CD4+
   helper T cells.
25        18.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to
   claims 2-17, wherein the CD8+ T cell and the CD4+ T cell are both genetically
   modified with an antibody heavy chain domain that specifically binds a pathogen
   specific cell surface antigen.
30        19.      The adoptive cellular immunotherapy composition according to claim
    18, wherein the pathogen specific cell surface antigen associated with the disease or
   disorder is selected from the group consisting of HIV antigens, HCV antigens, HBV
   antigens, CMV antigens, and parasitic antigens.
                                               49

         20.       The use of an adoptive immunotherapy composition of any one of
   claims 1-19 in the treatment of cancer.
 5       21.       The use of claim 20, wherein the cancer is selected from s a solid
   tumor, hematologic malignancy, or melanoma.
         22.       The use of an adoptive immunotherapy composition of any one of
   claims 1-19 in the treatment of an infectious disease.
10
         23.       The use of an adoptive immunotherapy composition of claim 22,
   wherein the infectious disease is a viral infection.
         24.       The use of an adoptive immunotherapy composition of claim 23,
15 wherein the viral infection is selected from an infection with herpes virus,
   retrovirus, and a flavivirus.
         25.       The use of an adoptive immunotherapy composition of claim 24,
   wherein the viral infection is an infection with a hepatitis virus.
20
         26.        A method of manufacturing an adoptive immunotherapy
   composition of any one of claims 1-19 comprising obtaining obtaining a modified
   naive CD4+ T helper cell that elicits a Th1 cytokine response, wherein the modified
   helper T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD4 positive cells that have a
25 chimeric antigen receptor comprising an extracellular antibody variable domain
   specific for the antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular
   signaling domain.
         27.       A method of claim 26, further comprising obtaining a chimeric
30 antigen receptor modified tumor-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell
   preparation that elicits a cellular immune response and an antigen-reactive chimeric
   antigen receptor, wherein the modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation
   comprises CD8+ cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor comprising an
                                               50

   extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an antigen associated with the
   disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling module of a T cell receptor.
          28.      A method of performing cellular immunotherapy in a subject having
 5 a disease or disorder comprising: administering the composition of any one of
   claims 1-19.
          29.      A method of performing cellular immunotherapy in a subject having
   a disease or disorder comprising: analyzing a biological sample of the subject for
10 the presence of an antigen associated with the disease or disorder and administering
   the composition of any one of claims 1-19, wherein the chimeric antigen receptor
   specifically binds to the antigen.
          30.      A method of performing cellular immunotherapy in subject having a
15 disease or disorder comprising:
                   administering to the subject a genetically modified helper T
   lymphocyte cell preparation, wherein the modified helper T lymphocyte cell
   preparation comprises CD4+ T cells that have a chimeric antigen receptor
   comprising a extracellular antibody variable domain specific for an antigen
20 associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular signaling module of a T
   cell receptor.
            31.    The method of claim 30, further comprising administering to the
   subject a genetically modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation, wherein the
25 modified cytotoxic T lymphocyte cell preparation comprises CD8+ T cells that have
   a chimeric antigen receptor comprising a extracellular antibody variable domain
   specific for the antigen associated with the disease or disorder and an intracellular
   signaling module of a T cell receptor.
30          32.    The method of any one of claims 26-31, wherein the antigen
   associated with the disease or disorder is a tumor associated cell surface antigen.
                                              51

            33.     The method of claim 32, wherein the antigen associated with the
   disease or disorder is selected from the group consisting of orphan tyrosine kinase
   receptor RORI, tEGFR, Her2, Li-CAM, CD19, and CD20.
 5          34.     The method of any one of claims 26-31, wherein the antigen
   associated with the disease or disorder is a pathogen specific cell surface antigen
   from the group consisting of HIV, HCV, HBV, CMV, and parasitic antigens.
            35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the CD8+ T cell and the CD4+ T
10 cell are both genetically modified with an antibody heavy chain domain that
   specifically binds a pathogen-specific cell surface antigen.
            36.     The method of any one of claims 26-35, wherein the chimeric antigen
   receptor modified CD4+ T helper lymphocyte cell preparation with a Th1 phenotype
15 elicits an increased proliferative response, conveys persistence or increases an anti
   tumor reactivity response in the presence of a tumor cell.
            37.     The method of any one of claims 26-36, wherein the CD4+ T helper
   lymphocyte cell is selected from the group consisting of naive CD4+ T cells, central
20 memory CD4+ T cells, effector memory CD4+ T cells or bulk CD4+ T cells.
            38.     The method of claim 37, wherein the CD4+T helper lymphocyte cell
   is a naive CD4+ T.
                                              52

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
