Abstract
The invention relates to panels for defining building structures and fence structures.
The panels 12 are adapted to be joined together to define wall sections 10 to erect,
for example, a building structure. The wall section 10 may also be used for defining
partitions within the inside of building structures. In other arrangements, the panels
12 may be used for defining sections other than wall section used for defining a
building structure; for example, the panels 12 may be used for assembling floor
section or roof sections. Furthermore, the panels 12 may be used for defining
fences; in particular, the panels 12 may be used for defining a fence structure as well
as a plinth assembly of a fence structure.
Fig 4

     23s
         102
1.4
ss~a

PANEL
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates to structures such as wall structures, roof
structures and floor structures as well as fence structures.
[0002] The invention has been devised particularly, although not necessarily solely, in
relation to panels for assembling the structures such as wall structures, roof structures
and floor structures as well as fence structures.
BACKGROUND ART
[0003] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
[0004] Building structure may be erected using individual panels that are joined together
for defining the wall, roof and floor structures; similarly fence structures may be defined
by assembling together sections of sheet material.
[0005] Assembling the panels together for defining these structures can be cumbersome
and a time consuming task. This is particaurly when assembling the fence structures
using the sheet material.
[0006] As an example, fences should follow the contour of the terrain onto which the
fences are mounted. This is because by having the lower ends of the fences to follow
the contour of the terrain; noise, winds, and pests among others are impeded from
passing under the fence.
[0007] For the lower ends of the fences to follow the contour of the terrain, it is
necessary that the lower ends of the fences are at least partially embedded into the
ground. In undulating terrain the lower end of the fences need to adjust to the particular
undulating contour of the terrain. For example, for the lower end of a fence to follow the
contour of the particular undulation in the terrain, the individual panels that define the

fence need to be located at different locations with respect to each other; a first panel
 located at the lowest positon of the undulation may need to be located at a distance
 lower than a second panel that is located, for example, at the highest position of the
 particular undulation.
 [0008] Conventional fences are defined using individual sections of sheet material
defining the individual panels that define the fence. The sections of sheet material are
joined together by abutting the ends of the sections of the sheet material. The process
of joining together the sections of sheet material to follow the contour of the terrain
 below the fence is particularly cumbersome and time consuming.
 [0009] It is against this background that the present invention has been developed.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
 [0010] According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a panel for defining a
 building structure, the panel comprising a body having a first face and a second face,
and a first side and a second side joining the first and second face, wherein the first side
 is adapted to slideably receive a side of another first panel and the second side is
adapted to slideably receive a side of another second panel.
 [0011] Preferably, the first side comprises a first fastening element of a first fastening
 means, the first fastening element is adapted to be received by a second fastening
element of the first fastening means, the another first panel comprising the second
fastening element.
 [0012] Preferably, the first fastening element comprises a projection adapted to be
 received by the second fastening element.
 [0013] Preferably,the projection is configured to have a trapezoidal cross-section.
 [0014] Preferably,the first fastening means comprises a dovetail joint.
 [0015] Preferably,the first fastening element of the first fastening means comprises the
 male pin of a dovetail joint.

 [0016] Preferably,the second side of the panel comprises a second fastening element of
a second fastening means, the second fastening element being adapted to be received
 by a third fastening element of the second fastening means, the another second panel
comprising the third fastening element.
 [0017] Preferably,the second fastening element of the second fastening means
comprises an indentation adapted to receive the third fastening element.
 [0018] Preferably,the indentation is configured to have a trapezoidal cross-section.
 [0019] Preferably,the second fastening means comprises a dovetail joint.
 [0020] Preferably, the second fastening element comprises the female tail of a dovetail
joint.
 [0021] Preferably,the body of the panel comprises a first end and a second end, the
second fastening element comprising at least one open end for receiving a male pin of
the third fastening element to define the dovetail joint.
 [0022] Preferably,the body comprises an inner volume.
 [0023] Preferably, the body of the panel comprises openings for accesing the inner
volume from the exterior of the body.
 [0024] Preferably, the openings are located at ends of the body of the panel.
 [0025] Preferably,the inner volume comprises a hollow inner volume.
 [0026] Preferably, the inner volume extends along the longitude of the panel.
 [0027] Preferably, the inner volume is adapted to permit passage of services such as
electrical, optical and plumbing services.
 [0028] Preferably, the inner volume comprises insualting material such as sound
 insulating material or thermal insualting material.

[0029] Preferably, the body of the panel comprises reinforcement means to impede
bending of the first and second faces of the body of the panel.
[0030] Preferably, the reinforcement means comprises at least one partition extending
along the longitudinal axis of the panel.
[0031] Preferably, the partition defines within the inner volume of the panel a plurality of
compartments extending longitudinally along the panel.
[0032] Preferably, each of the first and second faces of the panel comprises a plurality
of grooves arranged in a spaced apart relationship with respect to each other and
extending longitudinally along the panel.
[0033] Preferably, the grooves are located at the location where the partition at least
one joins the inner surface of the first and second faces.
[0034] According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a structure
comprising a plurality of panels as defined in the first aspect of the invention.
[0035] Preferably, the structure comprises any one of a wall structure, roof structure, a
floor structure as well as a fence structure.
[0036] According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided fencing system for
mounting on a terrain, the fencing system comprising a plurality of panels, wherein the
panels are slideably attached to each other to permit the lower portion of the fencing
system to contour the terrain.
[0037] Preferably, the panels comprise the panels as defined in the first aspect of the
invention
[0038] Preferably, the panels are oriented in a substantial vertical condition.
[0039] According to a frouth aspect of the invention there is provided plinth assembly for
a fencing system for mounting on a terrain, the plinth assembly comprising a plurality of
panels, wherein the panels are slideably attached to each other to permit the lower
portion of the plinth assembly to contour the terrain.

[0040] Preferably, the panels comprise the panels as defined in the first aspect of the
invention
[0041] Preferably, the panels are oriented in a substantial vertical condition.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0042] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the following
description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is included
solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention.            It should not be
understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
        Figure 1 is a front view of a wall section assembled using a plurality of panels in
        accordance with a first embodiment of the invention.
        Figure 2 is a top view of the of the wall section shown in figure 1;
        Figure 3 is a perspective exploded view of the wall section shown in figure 1;
        Figure 4 is a side view of the panel in accordance with the first embodiment of
        the invention; and
        Figure 5 is a side view of a particular arrangement of the panel in accordance
        with the first embodiment of the invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT(S)
[0043] Figures 1 and 2 depict a wall section 10. The wall section 10 comprises a
plurality of panels 12. The panels 12 are adapted to be joined together to define the wall
section 10.
[0044] In the particular arrangement shown in figure 1, the wall section 10 comprises
four panels 12. In accordance to alternative arrangements the wall section 10 may
comprise any number of panels 12 for defining a particular wall structure to erect, for

example, a building structure. The wall section 10 may also be used for defining
partitions within the inside of building structures.
[0045] In other arrangements, the panels 12 may be used for defining sections other
than wall section used for defining a building structure. For example, the panels 12 may
be used for assembling floor section or roof sections.
[0046] Furthermore, in accordance with a second embodiment of the invention, the
panels 12 may be used for defining fences. In this second embodiment, the panels 12
may be used for defining a fence structure as well as a plinth assembly of a fence
structure.
[0047] Referring now to figure 3.
[0048] Figure 3 is an exploded view of the particular arrangement of the wall section 10
shown in figure 1. As shown in figure 3, the wall section 10 comprises four panels 12a
to 12d. Each panel has a front face 14 and a rear face 16 and ends 18 and 20.
[0049] Each panel 12 also comprises sides 22 and 24. As will be described below, the
sides 22 and 24 are adapted to attach adjacent panels together to define the wall panel
10.
[0050] Referring now to figure 4. Figure 4 is an end view of the panel 12a of the panels
12 shown in figure 4.
[0051]     The sides 22a and 24a are adapted to attach the adjacent panel 12b thereto.
For this, the sides 22 and 24 of each panel 12 comprises fastening means. In the
particular arrangement shown in figure 4, the fastening means comprises a sliding
dovetail joint.
[0052] As shown in 4, the dovetail joint for joining together adjacent panels 12
comprises a male pin 26 and female groove 28. The pin 26 extends along the length of
the side 24 of panel 12; the groove 28 extends along the length of the side 22a of the
panel 12.

 [0053] The pin 26 has a trapezoidal shape; the groove 28 has a trapezoidal outline
adapted for receiving the pin 26. Each groove 28 has an open end at each side 22 and
24 of each panel. The opens ends permit inserting the pin 26 into the groove 28 for
joining together adjacent panels 12.
 [0054] Each of the panels 12a to 12d comprises on each of its side 22 a pin 26 and on
 its other side 24 a groove 28. This allows attaching the panels 12 together to define the
wall section 10.
 [0055] The panels 12a and 12b are attached together to define a portion of the wall
section 10 by initially locating the panels 12a and 12b in an offset relationship so that
the pin 26b of the panel 12b is inserted within the open end of the groove 28a of the
 panel 12a; attachment of the panels 12a and 12b is completed by sliding side 22a of
 panel 12a against the side 24b of the panel 26 such that the pin 26b of the panel 12b
slides within the groove 28a of the panel 12a.
 [0056] The wall section 10 is defined by attaching further panels to the portion of wall
section 12 following the same assembly process described above for attaching together
 panels 12a and 12b.
 [0057] Furthermore, each panel 12 comprises a body 30. The body 30 comprises an
 inner volume 32 defined by the sides 22 and 24, and the faces 14 and 16.
 [0058] The inner volume 32 comprises a plurality of partitions 34a and 36a extending
along the longitudinal axis of the panel 12 from one end 18 to the other end 18 of the
 panel 12. The partitions 34 and 36 define a plurality of compartments 36a, 36b and 36c
extending longitudinally along the panel 12. In the particular arrangement shown in the
figures, there are two partitions 34 defining three compartments 36.
 [0059] The presence of the partitions 34 is particularly advantageous because it
 provides reinforcement to the faces 14 and 16 of the panel 12. For example, the
 partitions 34 and 36 impede bending of the side walls 14 and 16. This is particularly
 useful if the panels 12 are subject to loads when used for, for example, defining roof
and floor structures.

[0060] The fact that the panel 12 comprises a body 30 an inner volume is particularly
advantageous because it reduces passage of sound waves through the panel 12. In this
manner, the structures erected suing the panels 12 are adapted to act as noise barriers.
Sound insulating material may be inserted in the inner volume 32 of the panel 12 to
enhance the sound isolation properties of the panel 12. Also, thermal insulating material
may be inserted in the inner volume 32 of the panel 12 to enhance the thermal isolation
properties of the panel 12.
[0061] Another advantage of the inner volume is that conductors and pluming of the
building structure to be erected using the panels 12 can be passed through the panels
12. It is particularly advantageous that the panel 12 comprises a plurality of
compartments 36 isolated with respect to each other; this allows to pass though one
compartment 36, for example, electric conductors and through another compartment 36
pluming for transfer of liquids or gases.
[0062]    Moreover, the exterior surface of each face 14 and 16 of the panel 12
comprises a plurality of grooves 38 arranged in a spaced apart relationship with respect
to each other and extending longitudinally along the panel 12.            In the particular
arrangement shown in the figures, there are two grooves 38 on each face 14 and 16
and the grooves 38 are located at the outer surface of the panel 12 adjacent the
location where the partitions 36 join the inner surface of the faces 14 and 16. This can
be best appreciated in figure 4.
[0063] In accordance with a first embodiment of the invention, one of the possible
applications of the panels 12 may be used for defining wall, roof and floor structures.
[0064] An advantage of the panels 12 of the present embodiments of the invention is the
easiness with which the panels 12 may be joined together. This is particularly
advantageous when using the panels 12 for defining barrier elements of fences.
[0065] As mentioned       in the    Background  Section   of the     present specification,
conventional fences are defined using sheet material that are joined together by
abutting the ends of individual sheet material; in particular, plinth assemblies of fences
are defined using sheet material. As indicated before, the process of joining together the
sheets of material to follow the contour of the terrain below the fence is particularly
cumbersome and time consuming.

 [0066] In accordance with a second embodiment of the invention, the panels 12 may be
joined together to define barrier elements of fencing system or to define the plinth
assemblies of fences.
 [0067] For example, the fencing system may comprise end posts between which a
 barrier element may be located and supported to the ground.
 [0068] In a first arrangement of this second embodiment of the invention, the panels 12
 may be joined together to define the barrier panel to be located between the posts. In
this particular arrangement the barrier panel (defined by panels 12) may located
 between the posts such that the longitudinal axis of the panels 12 are in a horizontal
condition.
 [0069] Alternatively, the panels may be located such the longitudinal axis of the panels
 12 are in a vertical condition. This alternative arrangement is particular advantageous
 because, as will be described it permits omitting the plinth assembly used for ensuring
that the lower end of the fence follows the contour of the ground.
 [0070] In the arrangement where the panels 12 are located in the vertical condition, the
 barrier panel (defined by panels 12) may be supported to the ground by embedding the
 panels 12 partially in the ground. As will be described in the next paragraph, the fact
that the panels 12 are slideably attached to each other is particularly advantageous for
defining this particular arrangement of fencing system.
 [0071] As mentioned in the Background Section of the present specification, the fences
should follow the contour of the ground onto which the fences are mounted. This is
 because by having the lower ends of the fences to follow the contour of the ground
 noise, winds, and pests among others are impeeded from passing under the fence.
 [0072] For the lower ends of the fences (having the barrier element defined by panels
 12) to follow the contour of the ground it is necessary that the lower end of each
 individual panel 12 is at least partially embedded into the ground. In undulating terrain
the lower end of the barrier element needs to adjust to the particular undulating contour
of the ground. For example, for the barrier element to follow the contour of a irregularity
 in the ground, the individual panels need to be located at different locations with respect
to each other; a first panel 12a located at the lowest positon of the irregularity may need

to be located at a distance lower than a second panel 12b that is located, for example,
at the highest position of the particular irregularity.
[0073] The fact that the panels 12 are slideably attached to each other facilitates
following the contour of the ground. This is because it allows the lower ends of the
individual panels 12 to follow the particular contour of the ground as was described in
the previous paragraph. The panels 12 may slide with respect to each other for
embedding the lower ends of each panel 12 at the corresponding depth with respect the
upper surface of the ground.
[0074] The process for supporting the lower end of the barrier element (defined by
panels 12) to the ground include the steps of assembly the barrier element by joining
together the panels 12, mounting barrier element onto the ground and adjusting the
position of each panel 12 with respect to its adjacent panels 12 to make the barrier
element follow the contour of the ground. To ensure that the upper end of the barrier
element follows a straight profile, the panels 12 may be cut to size prior or after
assembly of the barrier element; alternatively, each individual panel 12 may be
embedded into the ground a particular depth for the upper end of the barrier element to
have straight profile.
[0075] Modifications and variations as would be apparent to a skilled addressee are
deemed to be within the scope of the present invention.
[0076] Further, it should be appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to
the scope of the embodiments disclosed. By way of example, the panels 12 may also
be used to define a plinth assembly for a fencing system. In this particular case the
process used for defining the barrier elements of the fence would be substantially
identical to the process for defining the plinth assembly, one of the difference being that
it is expected that the length of the panels 12 used for defining the plinth assembly is
smaller than the length of the panels 12 used for defining the barrier elements.
[0077] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.

CLAIMS
 1. A panel for defining a building structure, the panel comprising a body having a first
    face and a second face, and a first side and a second side joining the first and
    second face, wherein the first side is adapted to slideably receive a side of another
    first panel and the second side is adapted to slideably receive a side of another
    second panel.
 2. A panel according to claim 1 wherein the first side comprises a first fastening
    element of a first fastening means, the first fastening element is adapted to be
    received by a second fastening element of the first fastening means, the another
    first panel comprising the second fastening element.
 3. A panel according to claim 2 wherein the first fastening element comprises a
    projection adapted to be received by the second fastening element.
 4. A panel according to claim 3 wherein the projection is configured to have a
    trapezoidal cross-section.
 5. A panel according to any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the first fastening means
    comprises a dovetail joint.
 6. A panel according to claim 5 wherein the first fastening element of the first fastening
    means comprises the male pin of a dovetail joint.
 7. A panel according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the second side of
    the panel comprises a second fastening element of a second fastening means, the
    second fastening element being adapted to be received by a third fastening element
    of the second fastening means, the another second panel comprising the third
    fastening element.
 8. A panel according to claim 7 wherein the second fastening element of the second
    fastening means comprises an indentation adapted to receive the third fastening
    element.

9. A panel according to claim 7 wherein the indentation is configured to have a
   trapezoidal cross-section.
10.A panel according to any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the second fastening means
   comprises a dovetail joint.
11.A panel according to claim 10 wherein the second fastening element comprises the
   female tail of a dovetail joint.
12.A panel according to any one of claims 2 to 11 wherein the body of the panel
   comprises a first end and a second end, the second fastening element comprising
   at least one open end for receiving a male pin of the third fastening element to
   define the dovetail joint.
13.A panel according to claim any one of the preceding claims wherein the body
   comprises an inner volume.
14.A panel according to claim 13 wherein the body of te panel comprises openings for
   accesing the inner volume from the exterior of the body.
15.A panel according to claim 14 wherein the openings are located at ends of the body
   of the panel.
16.A panel according to claims 13 or 14 wherein the inner volume comprises a hollow
   inner volume.
17.A panel according to any one of claims 13 to 15 wherein the inner volume extends
   along the longitude of the panel.
18.A panel according to any one of claims 13 to 17 wherein the inner volume is
   adapted to permit passage of services such as electrical, optical and plumbing
   services.
19.A panel according to 13 to 18 wherein the inner volume comprises insualting
   material such as sound insulating material or thermal insualting material.

20.A panel according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the body of the panel
  comprises reinforcement means to impede bending of the first and second faces of
  the body of the panel.
21.A panel according to claim 19 wherein the reinforcement means comprises at least
  one partition extending along the longitudinal axis of the panel.
22.A panel according to claim 20 wherein the partition defines within the inner volume
  of the panel a plurality of compartments extending longitudinally along the panel.
23.A panel according to any one of the preceding claims wherein each of the first and
  second faces of the panel comprises a plurality of grooves arranged in a spaced
  apart relationship with respect to each other and extending longitudinally along the
   panel.
24.A panel according to claim 22 wherein the grooves are located at the location
  where the partition at least one joins the inner surface of the first and second faces.
25.A structure comprising a plurality of panels as defiend in any one of claims 1 to 23.
26.A structure according to claim 24 wherein the structure comprises any one of a wall
  structure, roof structure, a floor structure as well as a fence structure.
27.A fencing system for mounting on a terrain, the fencing system comprising a
   plurality of panels, wherein the panels are slideably attached to each other to permit
  the lower portion of the fencing system to contour the terrain.
28.A fencing system according to claim 26 wherein the panels comprise the panels as
  defined in any one of claims 1 to 23.
29.A structure according to claim 27 wherein the panels are oriented in a substantial
  vertical condition.
30.A plinth assembly for a fencing system for mounting on a terrain, the plinth
  assembly comprising a plurality of panels, wherein the panels are slideably attached

  to each other to permit the lower portion of the plinth assembly to contour the
  terrain.
31.A plinth assembly according to claim 29 wherein the panels comprise the panels as
  defined in any one of claims 1 to 23.
32.A plinth assembly according to claims 29 or 30 wherein the panels are oriented in a
  substantial vertical condition.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
