1002189948
                      ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
          Systems and methods to switch from a first communication mode to a
second communication mode are disclosed herein. A level of communication
between a first user and a second user in a first communication mode is detected.
The first communication mode is included in a first communication interface
displayed on a device of the first user. A second communication mode is
selected based on the detected level of communication between the first user and
the second user in the first communication mode. A switch from the first
communication mode to the second communication mode is caused. The second
communication mode is included in a second communication interface.

1002189948
                   SELECTING A COMMUNICATION MODE
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]         This international application claims the benefit of priority to U.S.
Patent Application Serial No. 14/585,091, filed on December 29, 2014, and also
claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/932,092,
filed January 27, 2014, both of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety.
[0001A]         Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is
PCT/US2014/072990 (published as WO 2015/112315), filed on
31 December 2014.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]         The subject matter disclosed herein generally relates to data
communication. Specifically, the present disclosure addresses systems and
methods to facilitate a switch from a first communication mode to a second
communication mode.
BACKGROUND
[0003]         A user may select or choose from various communication modes in
order to communicate with another user. For example, the user may choose to
write an email message to a friend. As another example, the user may choose to
write a text message that is sent to a friend. Moreover, each of these
communication modes may be displayed within a user device as part of a
communication interface.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0004]         Some embodiments are illustrated by way of example and not
limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings.
                                           1

1002189948
[0005]        FIG. 1 is a network diagram illustrating a network environment
suitable for causing a switch from a first communication mode to a second
communication mode, according to some example embodiments.
[0006]        FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating components of a server
machine suitable for causing a switch from a first communication mode to a
second communication mode, according to some example embodiments.
[00071        FIG. 3-6 are example user interfaces displaying a communication
interface, according to some example embodiments.
[0008]        FIG. 7-9 are flowcharts illustrating operations of a server machine
in performing a method of causing a switch from a first communication mode to
a second communication mode, according to some example embodiments.
[0009]        FIG. 10 is a block diagram illustrating components of a machine,
according to some example embodiments, able to read instructions from a
machine-readable medium and perform any one or more of the methodologies
discussed herein.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0010]        Example methods and systems are directed to causing a switch
from a first communication mode to a second communication mode. Examples
merely typify possible variations. Unless explicitly stated otherwise,
components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided, and
operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided. In the following
description, for purposes of explanation, numerous specific details are set forth
to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident
to one skilled in the art, however, that the present subject matter may be
practiced without these specific details.
[0011]              A first user may communicate with a second user in a first
communication mode displayed in a first communication interface. As an
example the first user may send an email to the second user. Depending on a
level of communication between the first and second users, a system as
described herein may cause a switch from the first communication mode to a
second communication mode. For example, if a conversation results from the
                                           2

1002189948
email and numerous responses are sent back and forth between the first and
second user within an email interface, the system may detect this activity and
cause a switch from the email interface to a messaging service. As another
example, if the users are communicating over the messaging service and a
business-related conversation is detected as part of their communication, the
system may cause the messaging service to switch to email by display an email
interface of a business email account which is more suitable for the conversation.
This may reduce a burden on behalf of the user of having to manually switch
between communication modes. This may also reduce a burden on behalf of the
user of having to begin a new conversation in a new communication mode. In
other words, the user is able to continue the conversation with the second user
without having to refer back to contents of the conversation in the previous
communication mode.
[0012]        Accordingly, one or more of the methodologies discussed herein
may obviate a need for manually switching communication interfaces, which
may have the technical effect of reducing computing resources used by one or
more devices within the system. Examples of such computing resources include,
without limitation, processor cycles, network traffic, memory usage, storage
space, and power consumption.
[00131        FIG. 1 is a network diagram illustrating a network environment 100
suitable for causing a switch from a first communication mode to a second
communication mode, according to some example embodiments. The network
environment 100 includes a server machine 110, a database 115, and devices 130
and 150, all communicatively coupled to each other via a network 190. The
server machine 110 may form all or part of a network-based system 105 (e.g., a
cloud-based server system configured to provide one or more services to the
devices 130 and 150). The server machine 110 and the devices 130 and 150 may
each be implemented in a computer system, in whole or in part, as described
below with respect to FIG. 10.
[0014]        Also shown in FIG. 1 are users 132, 142, and 152. Any of the users
132, 142, 152 may be a human user (e.g., a human being), a machine user (e.g., a
computer configured by a software program to interact with the device 130), or
any suitable combination thereof (e.g., a human assisted by a machine or a
                                          3

1002189948
machine supervised by a human). The user 132 is not part of the network
environment 100, but is associated with the device 130 and may be a user of the
device 130. For example, the device 130 may be a desktop computer, a vehicle
computer, a tablet computer, a navigational device, a portable media device, a
smartphone, or a wearable device (e.g., a smart watch or smart glasses)
belonging to the user 132. Likewise, the users 142, and 152 each is not part of
the network environment 100, but is associated a device. As shown, the user 142
is associated with device 140 and the user 152 is associated with the device 150.
As an example, each of the devices 140 and 150 may be a desktop computer, a
vehicle computer, a tablet computer, a navigational device, a portable media
device, a smartphone, or a wearable device (e.g., a smart watch or smart glasses)
belonging to the users 142 and 152.
[0015]        Each of the users 132, 142, and 152 may be conversing with one
another using their respective devices 130, 140, and 150. Further, the
conversation may be performed using a communication mode that is displayed
on the devices 130, 140, and 150. Also, any communications exchanged during
the conversation between the users 132, 142, and 152 may be sent over the
network 190.
[0016]        Any of the machines, databases, or devices shown in FIG. 1 may be
implemented in a general-purpose computer modified (e.g., configured or
programmed) by software (e.g., one or more software modules) to be a special
purpose computer to perform one or more of the functions described herein for
that machine, database, or device. For example, a computer system able to
implement any one or more of the methodologies described herein is discussed
below with respect to FIG. 10. As used herein, a "database" is a data storage
resource and may store data structured as a text file, a table, a spreadsheet, a
relational database (e.g., an object-relational database), a triple store, a
hierarchical data store, or any suitable combination thereof. Moreover, any two
or more of the machines, databases, or devices illustrated in FIG. 1 may be
combined into a single machine, and the functions described herein for any
single machine, database, or device may be subdivided among multiple
machines, databases, or devices.
                                           4

1002189948
[00171        The network 190 may be any network that enables communication
between or among machines, databases, and devices (e.g., the server machine
110 and the device 130). Accordingly, the network 190 may be a wired network,
a wireless network (e.g., a mobile or cellular network), or any suitable
combination thereof. The network 190 may include one or more portions that
constitute a private network, a public network (e.g., the Internet), or any suitable
combination thereof. Accordingly, the network 190 may include one or more
portions that incorporate a local area network (LAN), a wide area network
(WAN), the Internet, a mobile telephone network (e.g., a cellular network), a
wired telephone network (e.g., a plain old telephone system (POTS) network), a
wireless data network (e.g., WiFi network or WiMax network), or any suitable
combination thereof. Any one or more portions of the network 190 may
communicate information via a transmission medium. As used herein,
"transmission medium" refers to any intangible (e.g., transitory) medium that is
capable of communicating (e.g., transmitting) instructions for execution by a
machine (e.g., by one or more processors of such a machine), and includes
digital or analog communication signals or other intangible media to facilitate
communication of such software.
[00181        FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating components of the server
machine 110, according to some example embodiments. The server machine
110 is shown as including a detection module 210, a selection module 220, a
display module 230, and a determination module 240, all configured to
communicate with each other (e.g., via a bus, shared memory, or a switch). Any
one or more of the modules described herein may be implemented using
hardware (e.g., one or more processors of a machine) or a combination of
hardware and software. For example, any module described herein may
configure a processor (e.g., among one or more processors of a machine) to
perform the operations described herein for that module. Moreover, any two or
more of these modules may be combined into a single module, and the functions
described herein for a single module may be subdivided among multiple
modules. Furthermore, according to various example embodiments, modules
described herein as being implemented within a single machine, database, or
device may be distributed across multiple machines, databases, or devices.
                                          5

1002189948
[0019]        In various example embodiments, the detection module 210 is
configured to detect a level of communication between a first user (e.g., user
 132) and a second user (e.g., user 142). As further explained below, the level of
communication may include frequency or rate of communication, content of
communication, urgency of communication, and the like. The first user and the
second user may be communicating in a first communication mode which is
included in a first communication interface. Examples of communication modes
include email, a text messaging service, voice messaging, video conferencing, a
threaded discussion, group chat, and the like. Examples of voice messaging may
include a phone call or a messaging service that is capable of sending audio data
as part of a message. Further, the communication mode is included within a
communication interface. In other words, the communication mode may be
displayed or implemented in the communication interface. Therefore, the
communication interface is displayed on a device in order to facilitate
communication in the communication mode. The first communication interface
may be displayed on a device (e.g., device 130) which is operated by the first
user and a device (e.g., device 140) which is operated by the second user. The
first communication interface is associated with the first communication mode.
However, in some instances, the first communication interface as displayed on
the device operated by the first user will appear differently compared to the first
communication interface as displayed on the device operated by the second user.
[0020]        In some embodiments of determining the level of communication,
the detection module 210 is further configured to identify content of the
communication between the first user and the second user. In some instances, an
urgency of the communication can be determined in the content of the
communication (e.g., words or phrases used during the course of
communication). Accordingly, the detection module 210 can be further
configured to determine the urgency of the communication between the first user
and the second user. As another example, if the first and second users are
communicating through email, the email can include certain signals which
indicate a level of urgency associated with the communication. Conversely, the
content of the communication may include certain key phrases or words which
indicate that the communication is casual and therefore not as urgent. For
                                          6

1002189948
example, a casual conversation could include a discussion about a happy hour
event after work. In further embodiments, the detection module 210 is
configured to identify encrypted content being sent in the communication
between the first user and the second user. Further, the encrypted content may
be used to signify that the communication is private.
[0021]         In other embodiments of determining the level of communication,
the detection module 210 is further configured to detect a rate of communication
between the first user and the second user. The rate of communication may be
measured as a number of messages exchanged between the first and second user
over a predetermined period of time. The rate of communication may also be
measured by a response time of each of the parties to the communication (e.g.,
the first user and the second user).
[0022]         In other such embodiments of determining the level of
communication, the detection module 210 is further configured to determine that
communication criteria are satisfied. The communication criteria indicate
conditions associated with switching from one communication mode to another.
For example, the communication criteria may indicate a set of conditions which
must be met prior to switching from email to a messaging service. For instance,
the communication criteria may require the detection module 210 to detect a
predetermined number of responses within a predetermined duration of time.
The communication criteria may require the detection module 210 to detect a
keyword or phrase within the communication between the first user and the
second user. The communication criteria may require the detection module 210
to detect duration of the communication as exceeding predetermined threshold
duration. Each of the criterions listed above may be a factor in determining
whether to switch from one communication mode to another. For examples,
each of the criterions may be used as an input to a formula (e.g., combinatorial
logic) which is used in making the determination. Further, the communication
criteria may be adjusted by the detection module 210. The adjustment may
include relaxing the communication criteria thereby making it easier to switch
communication modes. Alternatively, the adjustment may include making the
communication criteria more stringent thereby making it more difficult to switch
communication modes. The adjustment could also be made based on user
                                          7

1002189948
preferences. For instance, the communication criteria associated with switching
to a frequently used messaging service may be relaxed. In some embodiments,
the detection module 210 is further configured to identify a third user
communicating with the first user and the second user in the first communication
mode. In other words, the detection module 210 can identify when more than
two individuals are parties to the conversation in the first communication mode.
For instance, an email message between the first user and the second user may
have a third user copied as an intended recipient of the message. As another
example, in a group text message may be exchanged among several participants
including the first user, the second user, and the third user.
[00231        In various example embodiments, the selection module 220 is
configured to select a second communication mode based on the detected level
of communication between the first user and the second user in the first
communication mode. In some embodiments, the second communication mode
is selected by the selection module 220 based on the content of the
communication between the first user and the second user. For instance, the
second communication mode can be more suitable for urgent communications
between the first and second user. In further embodiments, the second
communication mode is selected by the selection module 220 based on the rate
of communication between the first user and the second user. For instance, the
second communication mode may be more suitable for frequent exchange of
communications between the first and second user. For example, it may be
easier for the first and second user to converse over voice rather than through a
purely textual messaging service. In further embodiments, the second
communication mode is selected by the selection module 220 based on the
determination that the communication criteria are satisfied. In further
embodiments, the selection module 220 selects the second communication mode
based on the detection module 210 identifying the encrypted content. For
example, the second communication mode may be more suitable for private
conversations between the first and second user.
[0024]         The second communication mode is distinct from the first
communication mode. Moreover, the second communication mode is included
in a second communication interface. In other words, the second communication
                                           8

1002189948
mode may be displayed or implemented in the second communication interface.
Therefore, the second communication interface may be displayed on a device in
order to facilitate communication in the second communication mode.
[0025]        In various example embodiments, the selection module 220 is
further configured to select the second communication mode based on the
identification of the third user. For example, the selection module 220 selects a
communication mode that is more suitable for facilitating communication among
more than two users. As an example, the selection module 220 may select email
as the communication mode for facilitating a business communication among
three employees of the business. As another example, the selection module 220
may select a communication mode that is suitable for facilitating communication
among a subset of the first, second, and third user. For example, a high ranking
officer of a company may be communicating with two employees of the
company through email. Moreover, the nature of the email conversation may
cause one of the employees to drop out of the conversation. Therefore, the
selection module 220 may select voice as the second communication mode and
when the conversation switches from email to voice, one of the employees may
drop out of the conversation. For example, the selection module 220 may select
a voice messaging application which is installed on devices of the higher ranking
officer and the employees.
[0026]        In some embodiments, the selection module 220 is further
configured to select the second communication mode based on previous user
behavior of at least one of the first user or the second user. For instance,
previous user behavior of the first user may indicate a preference for
communication over a messaging service (e.g., text messaging). Moreover, the
detection module 210 may be further configured to track the previous user
behavior of the least one of the first user or the second user. The selection
module 220 may select the messaging service as the second communication
mode based on the preference. As another example, if the first and second users
communicate frequently over email, then the selection module 220 may select
the email as being the second communication mode. In other words, the
previous user behavior of the first user may indicate a frequency at which the
first user communicates over a specific communication mode. Likewise, the
                                           9

1002189948
previous user behavior of the second user may indicate a frequency at which the
second user communicates over a specific communication mode. Further,
communication criteria associated with selecting a communication mode may be
adjusted based on the previous user behavior of at least one of the first user or
the second user. For instance, the communication criteria for a frequently used
communication mode may be relaxed or made less stringent. In this way, the
selection module 220 is able to select a communication mode that is more
frequently used by either the first user or the second user without requiring that
all of the communication criteria be satisfied.
[00271         In various example embodiments, the display module 230 is
configured to cause display of the first communication interface on the device of
the first user. Moreover, the display module 230 is configured to cause the
device of the first user to switch from the first communication mode to the
second communication mode. As stated above, the second communication mode
may be included in the second communication interface. Accordingly, the
display module 230 is further configured to cause display of the second
communication interface on the device of the first user. Likewise, the display
module 230 is further configured to cause display of the second communication
interface on a device of the second user. In the case that the third user is
identified, the display module 230 is further configured to cause display of the
second communication interface on a device of the third user. Further, the
second communication interface is associated with the second communication
mode. However, in some instances, the second communication interface will
appear differently on each device.
[00281         In some instances, the display module 230 is further configured to
cause display of the content of the communication from the first communication
interface in the second communication interface. In other words, the content of
the communication that appears in the first communication interface also appears
in the second communication interface. In some instances, the display module
230 is further configured to rearrange the content of the communication from the
first communication interface. The display module 230 may modify a position
of the content of the communication from the first communication interface
based on a format of the second communication interface. As an example, the
                                          10

1002189948
format of the second communication interface can display messaging content in
a position that is different than the first communication interface. Moreover, the
display module 230 may be further configured to change the appearance of the
content (e.g., font size, color, and the like) as shown in the first communication
interface based on a format of the second communication interface. Thereafter,
the display module 230 may cause display of the rearranged content in the
second communication interface.
[0029]         In further embodiments, the display module 230 causes the device
of the second user to switch from the first communication mode to the second
communication mode. Moreover, the display module 230 also causes the device
of the third user to switch from the first communication mode to the second
communication mode in the event that the third user is identified as
communicating with the first user and the second user. Accordingly, the display
module 230 causes display of the second communication interface to at least one
of the device of the second user or the device of the third user. As stated above,
a high ranking officer of a company may be communicating with two employees
of the company, and when the conversation switches from email to voice, one of
the employees may drop out of the conversation. Therefore, the contents of
voice conversation may be kept hidden from at least one of the device of the
second user or the device of the third user.
[00301         In various example embodiments, the determination module 240 is
configured to determine device capabilities of the device of the first user. For
instance, the determination module 240 may identify specifications of the device
of the first user (e.g., screen size, processor speed, and the like). Further, the
determination module 240 may identify software that is installed on the device
of the first user.
[00311         In various example embodiments, the determination module 240 is
further configured to verify that the device of the first user is compatible with the
second communication mode based on the determined device capabilities.
Further, the display module 230 may cause the device of the first user to switch
from the first communication mode to the second communication mode based on
the verification that the device of the first user is compatible with the second
communication mode. As an example, the second communication mode may
                                            11

1002189948
only be compatible with a certain version of an operating system. Alternatively,
for optimal experience, the second communication mode may require a
minimum screen size on which to display the second communication interface.
[0032]         FIG. 3 is an example user interface 300 that displays a
communication interface 310, according to some example embodiments. The
example user interface 300 may be displayed on a user device. The
communication interface 310 may be used to display a communication mode
(e.g., email). In other words, the communication mode is shown as included
within the communication interface 310. As shown in FIG. 3, the
communication interface 310 is an email interface that is used to send and
receive emails. The communication interface 310 includes a message 340 that is
being sent from a first user 320 to a second user 330. Both of the first user 320
and the second user 330 are shown in the communication interface 310. The
communication 340 also includes content 350 which is being sent from the first
user 320 to the second user 330. The communication interface 310 may also
include a timestamp 355 which indicates when the message is being sent from
the first user 320 to the second user 330.
[00331         FIG. 4 is an example user interface 400 that displays a
communication interface 410, according to some example embodiments. The
example user interface 400 may be displayed on a user device. The
communication interface 410 is separate and distinct from the communication
interface 310 that was shown in FIG. 3. As shown in FIG. 4, the communication
interface 410 is a messaging service that can be used to exchange messages
between the first user 320 and the second user 330. More specifically, the
communication interface 410 includes a first message 430, a second message
450, and a third message 470 each being exchanged between the first user 320
and the second user 330. Moreover, included in the first message 430 is the
content 350 that was originally sent from the first user 320 as part of the
communication interface 310 of FIG. 3. The timestamp 355 that appears in the
communication interface 310 is also shown in the first message 430. As shown,
the content 350 is rearranged in the communication interface 410 as part of a
messaging interface. Further, a timestamp 455 is being used to indicate when
the second message 450 is being sent. A timestamp 475 is being used to indicate
                                         12

1002189948
when the third message 470 is being sent. The display module 230 may cause
the communication interface 410 to be displayed on the user device. Moreover,
the communication interface 310 of FIG. 3 may have previously been displayed
on the user device. As stated above, the display module 230 causes a switch
from a first communication mode to a second communication mode. Moreover,
as an example, the detection module 210 may detect that the content 350 is
social or casual and therefore the display module 230 causes the switch from
email to the messaging service.
[0034]        FIG. 5 is an example user interface 500 that displays a
communication interface 510, according to some example embodiments. The
example user interface 500 may be displayed on a user device. The
communication interface 510 may be used to display a communication mode
(e.g., email). In other words, the communication mode is shown as included
within the communication interface 510. The communication interface 510
includes a message 550 that is being sent from a first user 520 to a second user
530 and a third user 540. Each of the first user 520, the second user 530, and the
third user 540 is also shown within the communication interface 510. The
message 550 includes content 560 which is being sent from the first user 520 to
the second user 530 and the third user 540. Further, the message 550 includes a
timestamp 570 which indicates when the message 550 is being sent from the first
user 520 to the second user 530 and the third user 540.
[0035]        FIG. 6 is an example user interface 600 that displays a
communication interface 610, according to some example embodiments. The
example user interface 500 may be displayed on a user device. The
communication interface 610 is separate and distinct from the communication
interface 510 that was shown in FIG. 5. As shown in FIG. 6, the communication
interface 610 is a group messaging service that can be used to exchange
messages between one or more users. In particular, the communication interface
610 is being used to facilitate communication between the first user 520, the
second user 530, and the third user 540. The communication interface 610
displays a first message 630, a second message 650, and a third message 670.
The first message 630 may also include the content 560 that was originally sent
to the second and third users as part of the communication interface 510 of FIG.
                                          13

1002189948
5. The second message 650 is sent from the second user 530 to each of the first
user 520 and the third user 540. The third message 670 is sent from the third
user 540 to each of the first user 520 and the second user 530. Moreover, the
first message 630 includes the timestamp 570 that was also shown in FIG. 5.
Further, a timestamp 655 is being used to indicate when the second message 650
is being sent. A timestamp 675 is being used to indicate when the third message
670 is being sent. The display module 230 may cause the communication
interface 610 to be displayed on the user device. Moreover, the communication
interface 510 of FIG. 5 may have previously been displayed on the user device.
Moreover, as an example, the detection module 210 may detect that the content
560 is social or casual and therefore the display module 230 causes the switch
from email to the messaging service.
[00361         FIG. 7-9 are flowcharts illustrating operations of the server machine
 110 in performing a method 700 of causing a switch from a first communication
mode to a second communication mode, according to some example
embodiments. Operations in the method 700 may be performed by the server
machine 110, using modules described above with respect to FIG. 2. As shown
in FIG. 7, the method 600 includes operations 710, 720, 730, 740, and 750.
[00371         At operation 710, the display module 230 causes display of a first
communication interface on a device of a first user. The first communication
interface may include a first communication mode to facilitate communication
between the first user and the second user. For example, the first communication
interface could be a messaging interface that is displayed on the device of the
first user in order to allow the first user to send messages for a messaging
service. Moreover, the display module 230 may provide display data that is used
to produce a display of the first communication interface on the device of the
first user.
[0038]         At operation 720, the detection module 210 detects a level of
communication between the first user and a second user in a first communication
mode. As shown in FIG. 8, the detecting the level of communication between
the first user and the second user may include various operations. As stated
above, communications exchanged between the first user and the second user in
the first communication mode may be sent over the network 190.
                                            14

1002189948
[00391         At operation 730, the selection module 220 selects a second
communication mode based on a detected level of communication. The second
communication mode may be more suitable for the first user and the second user
based on the detected level of communication. As an example, a conversation
regarding private matters may be more appropriate through voice or a video chat.
[0040]         At operation 740, the display module 230 causes the device of the
first user to switch from the first communication mode to the second
communication mode. As stated previously, this may relieve a burden on behalf
of the user of manually switching communication modes. Moreover, the
contents of the communication from the first communication mode may be
transferred to the second communication mode. In some instances, the display
module 230 causes display of an option which enables a user to select and
trigger the switch from the first communication mode to the second
communication mode.
[0041]         At operation 750, the display module 230 causes display of the
second communication mode in a second communication interface on the device
of the first user. In some instances, the display module 230 also causes display
of the content of the communication from the first communication interface in
the second communication interface.
[0042]         As shown in FIG. 8, the method 700 may include one or more of
operations 810, 820, 830, 840, 850, and 860. Operations 810-840 may be
performed as part of the operation 720.
[00431         At operation 810, the detection module 210 identifies content of the
communication between the first user and the second user. As stated above, an
urgency of the communication can be determined in the content of the
communication (e.g., words or phrases used during the course of
communication). Accordingly, the detection module 210 can determine the
urgency of the communication.
[0044]         At operation 820, the detection module 210 detects a rate of
communication between the first user and the second user. The rate of
communication may be measured as a number of messages exchanged between
the first user and second user over a predetermined period of time. The rate of
                                          15

1002189948
communication may also be measured by a response time of each of the parties
to the communication.
[0045]        At operation 830, the detection module 210 determines that
communication criteria are satisfied. The communication criteria indicate
conditions associated with switching from one communication mode to another.
[00461        At operation 840, the detection module 210 identifies a third user
communicating with the first user and the second user. For instance, an email
between the first user and the second user may have a third user copied as an
intended recipient of the message.
[00471        At operation 850, the determination module 240 determines device
capabilities of the device of the first user. The device capabilities may include
device specifications. The device capabilities may also include software
installed on the device.
[00481        At operation 860, the determination module 240 verifies that the
device of the first user is compatible with the second communication mode. The
determination module 240 may perform the operation 860 based on the
determined device capabilities of the operation 850.
[0049]        As shown in FIG. 9, the method 700 may include one or more of
operations 910, 920, and 930. Operations 910-930 may be performed as part of
the operation 750.
[0050]        At operation 910, the display module 230 causes display of the
content of the communication from the first communication interface in the
second communication interface.
[0051]        At operation 920, the display module 230 rearranges the content of
the communication from the first communication interface. This may include
modifying a position of the content of the communication from the first
communication interface based on a format of the second communication
interface. This also may include changing the appearance of the content as
shown in the first communication interface (e.g., font size, color, and the like)
based on the format of the second communication interface.
                                           16

1002189948
[00521        At operation 930, the display module 230 causes display of the
rearranged content in the second communication interface.
[0053]        When these effects are considered in aggregate, one or more of the
methodologies described herein may obviate a need for certain efforts or
resources that otherwise would be involved in manually switching
communication interfaces. Efforts expended by a user in manually switching
communication interfaces may be reduced by one or more of the methodologies
described herein. Computing resources used by one or more machines,
databases, or devices (e.g., within the network environment 100) may similarly
be reduced. Examples of such computing resources include processor cycles,
network traffic, memory usage, data storage capacity, power consumption, and
cooling capacity.
[0054]        FIG. 10 is a block diagram illustrating components of a machine
 1000, according to some example embodiments, able to read instructions 1024
from a machine-readable medium 1022 (e.g., a non-transitory machine-readable
medium, a machine-readable storage medium, a computer-readable storage
medium, or any suitable combination thereof) and perform any one or more of
the methodologies discussed herein, in whole or in part. Specifically, FIG. 10
shows the machine 1000 in the example form of a computer system (e.g., a
computer) within which the instructions 1024 (e.g., software, a program, an
application, an applet, an app, or other executable code) for causing the machine
 1000 to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be
executed, in whole or in part.
[0055]        In alternative embodiments, the machine 1000 operates as a
standalone device or may be connected (e.g., networked) to other machines. In a
networked deployment, the machine 1000 may operate in the capacity of a server
machine or a client machine in a server-client network environment, or as a peer
machine in a distributed (e.g., peer-to-peer) network environment. The machine
 1000 may be a server computer, a client computer, a personal computer (PC), a
tablet computer, a laptop computer, a netbook, a cellular telephone, a
smartphone, a set-top box (STB), a personal digital assistant (PDA), a web
appliance, a network router, a network switch, a network bridge, or any machine
capable of executing the instructions 1024, sequentially or otherwise, that
                                          17

1002189948
specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further, while only a single
machine is illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any
collection of machines that individually or jointly execute the instructions 1024
to perform all or part of any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
[00561         The machine 1000 includes a processor 1002 (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), a digital signal
processor (DSP), an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a radio
frequency integrated circuit (RFIC), or any suitable combination thereof), a main
memory 1004, and a static memory 1006, which are configured to communicate
with each other via a bus 1008. The processor 1002 may contain microcircuits
that are configurable, temporarily or permanently, by some or all of the
instructions 1024 such that the processor 1002 is configurable to perform any
one or more of the methodologies described herein, in whole or in part. For
example, a set of one or more microcircuits of the processor 1002 may be
configurable to execute one or more modules (e.g., software modules) described
herein.
[00571         The machine 1000 may further include a graphics display 1010
(e.g., a plasma display panel (PDP), a light emitting diode (LED) display, a
liquid crystal display (LCD), a projector, a cathode ray tube (CRT), or any other
display capable of displaying graphics or video). The machine 1000 may also
include an alphanumeric input device 1012 (e.g., a keyboard or keypad), a cursor
control device 1014 (e.g., a mouse, a touchpad, a trackball, a joystick, a motion
sensor, an eye tracking device, or other pointing instrument), a storage unit 1016,
an audio generation device 1018 (e.g., a sound card, an amplifier, a speaker, a
headphone jack, or any suitable combination thereof), and a network interface
device 1020.
[0058]         The storage unit 1016 includes the machine-readable medium 1022
(e.g., a tangible and non-transitory machine-readable storage medium) on which
are stored the instructions 1024 embodying any one or more of the
methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions 1024 may also
reside, completely or at least partially, within the main memory 1004, within the
processor 1002 (e.g., within the processor's cache memory), or both, before or
during execution thereof by the machine 1000. Accordingly, the main memory
                                          18

1002189948
 1004 and the processor 1002 may be considered machine-readable media (e.g.,
tangible and non-transitory machine-readable media). The instructions 1024
may be transmitted or received over the network 190 via the network interface
device 1020. For example, the network interface device 1020 may communicate
the instructions 1024 using any one or more transfer protocols (e.g., hypertext
transfer protocol (HTTP)).
[0059]         In some example embodiments, the machine 1000 may be a
portable computing device, such as a smart phone or tablet computer, and have
one or more additional input components 1030 (e.g., sensors or gauges).
Examples of such input components 1030 include an image input component
(e.g., one or more cameras), an audio input component (e.g., a microphone), a
direction input component (e.g., a compass), a location input component (e.g., a
global positioning system (GPS) receiver), an orientation component (e.g., a
gyroscope), a motion detection component (e.g., one or more accelerometers), an
altitude detection component (e.g., an altimeter), and a gas detection component
(e.g., a gas sensor). Inputs harvested by any one or more of these input
components may be accessible and available for use by any of the modules
described herein.
[0060]         As used herein, the term "memory" refers to a machine-readable
medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to
include, but not be limited to, random-access memory (RAM), read-only
memory (ROM), buffer memory, flash memory, and cache memory. While the
machine-readable medium 1022 is shown in an example embodiment to be a
single medium, the term "machine-readable medium" should be taken to include
a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, or
associated caches and servers) able to store instructions. The term "machine
readable medium" shall also be taken to include any medium, or combination of
multiple media, that is capable of storing the instructions 1024 for execution by
the machine 1000, such that the instructions 1024, when executed by one or
more processors of the machine 1000 (e.g., processor 1002), cause the machine
 1000 to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein, in
whole or in part. Accordingly, a "machine-readable medium" refers to a single
storage apparatus or device, as well as cloud-based storage systems or storage
                                         19

1002189948
networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term
"machine-readable medium" shall accordingly be taken to include, but not be
limited to, one or more tangible (e.g., non-transitory) data repositories in the
form of a solid-state memory, an optical medium, a magnetic medium, or any
suitable combination thereof.
[00611         Furthermore, the tangible machine-readable medium is non
transitory in that it does not embody a propagating signal. However, labeling the
tangible machine-readable medium as "non-transitory" should not be construed
to mean that the medium is incapable of movement - the medium should be
considered as being transportable from one physical location to another.
Additionally, since the machine-readable medium is tangible, the medium may
be considered to be a machine-readable device. A carrier medium comprises any
medium suitable for carrying instructions including a storage medium and a
signal, such as an electrical signal, an electromagnetic signal or an optical signal.
[0062]         Throughout this specification, plural instances may implement
components, operations, or structures described as a single instance. Although
individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as
separate operations, one or more of the individual operations may be performed
concurrently, and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order
illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in
example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or
component. Similarly, structures and functionality presented as a single
component may be implemented as separate components. These and other
variations, modifications, additions, and improvements fall within the scope of
the subject matter herein.
[0063]         Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a
number of components, modules, or mechanisms. Modules may constitute
software modules (e.g., code stored or otherwise embodied on a machine
readable medium or in a transmission medium), hardware modules, or any
suitable combination thereof. A "hardware module" is a tangible (e.g., non
transitory) unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured
or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments, one
or more computer systems (e.g., a standalone computer system, a client
                                           20

1002189948
computer system, or a server computer system) or one or more hardware
modules of a computer system (e.g., a processor or a group of processors) may
be configured by software (e.g., an application or application portion) as a
hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.
[0064]        In some embodiments, a hardware module may be implemented
mechanically, electronically, or any suitable combination thereof. For example,
a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently
configured to perform certain operations. For example, a hardware module may
be a special-purpose processor, such as a field programmable gate array (FPGA)
or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or
circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain
operations. For example, a hardware module may include software
encompassed within a general-purpose processor or other programmable
processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware
module mechanically, in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry, or in
temporarily configured circuitry (e.g., configured by software) may be driven by
cost and time considerations.
[0065]        Accordingly, the phrase "hardware module" should be understood
to encompass a tangible entity, and such a tangible entity may be physically
constructed, permanently configured (e.g., hardwired), or temporarily configured
(e.g., programmed) to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain
operations described herein. As used herein, "hardware-implemented module"
refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware
modules are temporarily configured (e.g., programmed), each of the hardware
modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For
example, where a hardware module comprises a general-purpose processor
configured by software to become a special-purpose processor, the general
purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special-purpose
processors (e.g., comprising different hardware modules) at different times.
Software (e.g., a software module) may accordingly configure one or more
processors, for example, to constitute a particular hardware module at one
instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different
instance of time.
                                         21

1002189948
[00661         Hardware modules can provide information to, and receive
information from, other hardware modules. Accordingly, the described
hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where
multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously, communications may be
achieved through signal transmission (e.g., over appropriate circuits and buses)
between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in
which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different
times, communications between such hardware modules may be achieved, for
example, through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures
to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example, one
hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that
operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further
hardware module may then, at a later time, access the memory device to retrieve
and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate
communications with input or output devices, and can operate on a resource
(e.g., a collection of information).
[00671         The various operations of example methods described herein may
be performed, at least partially, by one or more processors that are temporarily
configured (e.g., by software) or permanently configured to perform the relevant
operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured, such processors
may constitute processor-implemented modules that operate to perform one or
more operations or functions described herein. As used herein, "processor
implemented module" refers to a hardware module implemented using one or
more processors.
[0068]         Similarly, the methods described herein may be at least partially
processor-implemented, a processor being an example of hardware. For
example, at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one
or more processors or processor-implemented modules. As used herein,
"processor-implemented module" refers to a hardware module in which the
hardware includes one or more processors. Moreover, the one or more
processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in
a "cloud computing" environment or as a "software as a service" (SaaS). For
example, at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of
                                         22

1002189948
computers (as examples of machines including processors), with these
operations being accessible via a network (e.g., the Internet) and via one or more
appropriate interfaces (e.g., an application program interface (API)).
[0069]        The performance of certain operations may be distributed among
the one or more processors, not only residing within a single machine, but
deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments, the one
or more processors or processor-implemented modules may be located in a
single geographic location (e.g., within a home environment, an office
environment, or a server farm). In other example embodiments, the one or more
processors or processor-implemented modules may be distributed across a
number of geographic locations. As used herein, the term "or" may be construed
in either an inclusive or exclusive sense.
[00701        Some portions of the subject matter discussed herein may be
presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on
data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory (e.g., a
computer memory). Such algorithms or symbolic representations are examples
of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to
convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein,
an "algorithm" is a self-consistent sequence of operations or similar processing
leading to a desired result. In this context, algorithms and operations involve
physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically, but not necessarily,
such quantities may take the form of electrical, magnetic, or optical signals
capable of being stored, accessed, transferred, combined, compared, or otherwise
manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times, principally for reasons of
common usage, to refer to such signals using words such as "data," "content,"
"bits," "values," "elements," "symbols," "characters," "terms," "numbers,"
"numerals," or the like. These words, however, are merely convenient labels
and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.
[00711        Unless specifically stated otherwise, discussions herein using words
such as "processing," "computing," "calculating," "determining," "presenting,"
"displaying," or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine (e.g., a
computer) that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical (e.g.,
electronic, magnetic, or optical) quantities within one or more memories (e.g.,
                                          23

1002189948
volatile memory, non-volatile memory, or any suitable combination thereof),
registers, or other machine components that receive, store, transmit, or display
information. Furthermore, unless specifically stated otherwise, the terms "a" or
"an" are herein used, as is common in patent documents, to include one or more
than one instance. Finally, as used herein, the conjunction "or" refers to a non
exclusive "or," unless specifically stated otherwise.
                                         24

1002189948
CLAIMS
 1.      A method comprising:
          detecting, using one or more processors, a level of communication
between a first user and a second user in a first communication mode by
identifying language indicating urgency in the content of the communication, the
first communication mode included in a first communication interface displayed
on a device of the first user;
          selecting, using the one or more processors, a second communication
mode based on the detected level of communication between the first user and
the second user in the first communication mode; and
          automatically causing the device of the first user to switch from the first
communication mode to the second communication mode included in a second
communication interface, the second communication mode to facilitate
communication between the first user and the second user.
2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the causing the device of the first user to
switch from the first communication mode to the second communication mode
includes causing display of the second communication interface on the device of
the first user.
3.        The method of claim 2, wherein the causing the display of the second
communication interface includes causing display of the content of the
communication from the first communication interface in the second
communication interface.
4.        The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the level of communication
between the first user and the second user further includes detecting a rate of
communication between the first user and the second user.
5.        The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the level of communication
between the first user and the second user further includes determining that
communication criteria are satisfied.
                                          25

1002189948
6.        The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the level of communication
between the first user and the second user further includes identifying a third
user communicating with the first user and the second user in the first
communication mode.
7.        The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the second communication
mode is further based on previous user behavior of at least one of the first user or
the second user.
8.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          determining device capabilities of the device of the first user; and
         verifying that the device of the first user is compatible with the second
communication mode based on the determined device capabilities, and wherein
the causing the device of the first user to switch from the first communication
mode to the second communication mode is based on the verification.
9.        The method of claim 1, wherein the communication mode includes at
least one of: email, a text messaging service, voice messaging, video
conferencing, a threaded discussion, or group chat.
 10.     A system comprising:
          a detection module configured to detect a level of communication
between a first user and a second user in a first communication mode by
identifying language indicating urgency in the content of the communication, the
first communication mode included in a first communication interface displayed
on a device of the first user;
          a selection module configured to select a second communication mode
based on the detected level of communication between the first user and the
second user in the first communication mode; and
          a display module configured to cause the device of the first user to
automatically switch from the first communication mode to the second
communication mode included in a second communication interface, the second
communication mode to facilitate communication between the first user and the
second user.
                                           26

1002189948
 11.      The system of claim 10, wherein the display module is further configured
to cause display of the second communication interface on the device of the first
user.
 12.      The system of claim 11, wherein the display module is further configured
to cause display of the content of the communication from the first
communication interface in the second communication interface.
 13.      The system of claim 10, wherein the detection module is further
configured to detect a rate of communication between the first user and the
second user.
 14.      The system of claim 10, wherein the detection module is further
configured to determine that communication criteria are satisfied.
 15.      The system of claim 10, wherein the detection module is further
configured to identify a third user communicating with the first user and the
second user in the first communication mode.
 16.      The system of claim 10, wherein the selection module is further
configured to select the second communication mode based on previous user
behavior of at least one of the first user or the second user.
 17.      The system of claim 10, further comprising:
          a determination module configured to:
                  determine device capabilities of the device of the first user; and
                  verify that the device of the first user is compatible with the
          second communication mode based on the determined device
          capabilities, and wherein the display module is further configured to
          cause the device of the first user to switch based on the verification.
                                            27

1002189948
18.      A machine-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by
one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations
comprising:
          detecting a level of communication between a first user and a second user
in a first communication mode by identifying language indicating urgency in the
content of the communication, the first communication mode included in a first
communication interface displayed on a device of the first user;
          selecting a second communication mode based on the detected level of
communication between the first user and the second user in the first
communication mode; and
          causing the device of the first user to automatically switch from the first
communication mode to the second communication mode included in a second
communication interface, the second communication mode to facilitate
communication between the first user and the second user.
19.      A carrier medium carrying instructions that, when executed by one or
more processors of a machine, cause the machine to carry out the method of any
one of claims I to 9.
                                            28

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
