ABSTRACT
According to some embodiments, a beverage heating and cooling assembly is provided
which includes a collar and beverage retainer assembly for connection to retain the
assembly below a mounting substrate. The beverage retainer assembly (10) may include a
housing (12) with an active heating or cooling system, such as a thermoelectric engine,
which is positioned within or adjacent to the housing and beneath the mounting substrate or
similar planar structure. The assembly allows for a clean installation of an active thermal
system for beverages in order to keep the beverages cold or warm as desired.
FIG. 1

                       1/17
                        30              ' 10
                340
     70    ----                      70
                    70         C16
14,-1
                                   02
                                   00
        12
                        FIG. 1

                                               -1
                    BEVERAGE COOLER AND HEATER ASSEMBLY
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     Present embodiments generally relate to a beverage cooling unit for use with a
mounting substrate. More particularly, present embodiments relate to, without limitation, a
beverage cooling and heating assembly which incorporates a push and twist locking
arrangement, as well as an under mount assembly which engages the substrate of a
stationary structure, mobile structure, marine vessel or recreational vehicle (RV).
DESCRIPTION OF THE RELATED ART
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Various devices have been utilized to maintain a temperature of a heated or a
cooled beverage container including, but not limited to, a cup, can or bottle in for example, a
theater seat or vehicle console or an RV. Many of these structures in the prior art have
utilized passive systems which merely insulate the beverage container within a cup holder in
order to maintain the existing temperature of the drink stored therein.
[0004]     More recent devices have utilized active heating or cooling systems with
insulation, apply active thermal dynamic action to either remove or add heat to the drink
depending on the type of drink the user has. For example, these active systems often
position the beverage in front of an HVAC vent to either heat or cool the beverage.
[0005]     It would be desirable to position a beverage container within an assembly having
both heating and cooling capabilities in the area of a mounting substrate, such as for
example, a countertop. However, HVAC vents are not generally located in countertops.
Therefore, other solutions are needed.
[0006]     Accordingly, it would be desirable to overcome these and other deficiencies in
known cooling systems for beverages and beverage containers. More particularly, it would
be desirable to provide such active beverage heating and cooling system in a mounting
substrate of a recreational vehicle or a marine craft or alternatively in mobile equipment

                                                 -2
utilized having long hours of usage such as, for example, farm or construction equipment
having flat consoles.
[0007]     The information included in this Background section of the specification, including
any references cited herein and any description or discussion thereof, is included for
technical reference purposes only and is not to be regarded subject matter by which the
scope of the invention is to be bound.
SUMMARY
[0008]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a beverage heating and cooling
assembly, comprising:
           a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment;
           a housing retainer disposed in said drink retaining compartment, said beverage
retainer in thermal communication with said thermal engine compartment;
           a seal disposed between an upper edge of said beverage retainer and a collar;
           a light source adjacent to said seal;
           said seal being at least light transmissive allowing light from said light source to
pass through said seal and into said beverage retainer.
[0009]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a beverage heating and cooling
assembly, comprising:
           a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment;
           a beverage retainer having an upper edge;
           a collar positioned above said beverage retainer;
           a seal disposed between said collar and said beverage retainer;
           said seal distributing light into said beverage retainer.
[0010]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a beverage heating and cooling
assembly, comprising:
           a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a beverage retainer
compartment;
           a beverage retainer in said beverage retainer compartment in thermal
communication with a thermal engine in said thermal engine compartment;

                                               -3
           a collar positioned above said beverage retainer;
           a seal disposed between said collar and said beverage retainer, said seal in light
communication with a luminaire to illuminate an interior of said beverage retainer.
[0011]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a beverage heating and cooling
assembly, comprising:
           a housing having a first thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment;
           a beverage retainer disposed within said drink retaining compartment;
           a thermoelectric engine assembly to transfer heat to and from the beverage
retainer;
           a collar engaging one of said beverage retainer and a portion of said housing;
and,
           wherein said collar is capable of capturing a mounting substrate on an upper
surface and said housing below said mounting substrate.
[0012]     In one aspect, the present invention provides an active thermal beverage
assembly, comprising:
           a collar and a beverage retainer assembly including a housing for a beverage
retainer and a thermal engine assembly;
           said collar engaging said beverage retainer assembly, said beverage retainer
assembly including a beverage retainer, a housing and a neck wherein a planar structure
may be captured between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly;
           at least one fastener forcing said beverage retainer assembly downward and
causing frictional engagement between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly, and
further pulling said collar downwardly against said planar structure.
[0013]     In one aspect, the present invention provides an active thermal beverage
assembly, comprising:
           a collar which engages a beverage retainer assembly including a neck;
           said beverage retainer assembly including a housing having a first beverage
retainer compartment, a second thermal engine compartment, a beverage retainer, and a
neck;
           a thermoelectric engine assembly in thermal communication with a beverage
retainer to add or remove heat to said beverage retainer;

                                               -4
            at least one fastener extending upwardly from said beverage retainer assembly
which engages an undersurface of a mounting substrate and pulls said collar downwardly
against an upper surface of said mounting substrate.
[0014]      In one aspect, the present invention provides an active thermal beverage
assembly, comprising:
            a collar which engages a beverage retainer assembly including a neck;
            said beverage retainer assembly including a beverage retainer, a housing, and a
neck;
            a thermoelectric engine assembly in thermal communication with a beverage
retainer to add or remove heat to said beverage retainer;
            at least one fastener extending downwardly through said collar and into said
beverage retainer assembly.
[0015]     According to some embodiments, a beverage heating and cooling assembly is
provided which includes a collar and beverage retainer assembly for connection to retain the
assembly below a mounting substrate. The beverage retainer assembly may include a
housing with an active heating or cooling system, such as a thermoelectric engine, which is
positioned within or adjacent to the housing and beneath the mounting substrate. The
assembly allows for a clean installation of an active thermal system for beverages in order to
keep the beverages cold or warm as desired.
[0016]     According to some embodiments, a beverage heating and cooling assembly
comprises a housing having a first thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment. A beverage retainer is disposed within the drink retaining compartment and a
thermoelectric engine assembly is provided to transfer heat to and from the beverage
retainer. A collar engages one of the beverage retainer and a portion of the housing. A
plurality of fasteners extend through the housing for engaging an under surface of a
mounting substrate. The collar is capable of capturing the mounting substrate on an upper
surface and the plurality of fasteners are capable of engaging the under surface of the
mounting substrate.
[0017]      Optionally, the collar may have one of a pin and a track for connecting with the
beverage retainer. One of the beverage retainer and the portion of the housing may have
the other of the pin and the track for connecting with the collar. The assembly may further
comprise a spacer disposed between the housing and the collar. The first thermal engine

                                               -5
compartment may be formed at least in part by a cover. The cover may have a plurality of
air flow apertures. The thermoelectric engine assembly may include a thermal engine. The
thermoelectric engine assembly may further include a thermal transfer body engaging the
thermal engine. The beverage heating and cooling assembly may further comprise a fan for
moving air across the thermal engine assembly. The assembly may further comprise the
thermal engine in thermodynamic communication with at least one of a thermal transfer body
and the beverage retainer. The beverage heating and cooling assembly may further
comprise a housing top cover. The plurality of fasteners may pass through the housing top
cover. The housing may be engaging the beverage retainer. The beverage retainer may be
formed of aluminum. The plurality of fasteners may have caps which engage the under
surface. The housing may have channels for passage of the fasteners. The housing may
have a housing top cover with an upstanding neck. The neck may have one of a track and a
pin. The collar may have the other of the track and the pin. The beverage retainer may
have luminaires at an upper end. The collar may have a notch aligned with said luminaires
for illumination of the beverage retainer. The collar may further have a trim ring. The
assembly may further comprise a pusher disposed within the beverage retainer to force a
beverage container toward the thermoelectric engine assembly. The pusher may be formed
in the beverage retainer. The pusher may be formed separate of the beverage retainer and
connected thereto. Alternatively, the pusher may be formed on an insert which is positioned
within the beverage retainer.
[0018]     According to another embodiment, an active thermal beverage assembly
comprises a collar and a beverage retainer assembly including a housing for a beverage
retainer and a thermal engine assembly. The collar may engage beverage retainer
assembly including a beverage retainer, a housing and a neck wherein a planar structure
may be captured between the collar and the beverage retainer assembly. At least one
fastener may force the beverage retainer assembly downward and cause frictional
engagement between the collar and the beverage retainer assembly, and further pulling the
collar downwardly against the planar structure.
[0019]     According to still a further embodiment, an active thermal beverage assembly
comprises a collar having one of at least one of a pin or track which engages a beverage
retainer assembly including a neck having the other of at least one pin or track, the beverage
retainer assembly includes a housing having a first beverage retainer compartment and a
second thermal engine compartment, a thermoelectric engine assembly in thermal

                                               -6
communication with a beverage retainer to add or remove heat to the beverage retainer, at
least one fastener extends upwardly from said beverage retainer assembly which engages
an undersurface of a mounting substrate and pulls the collar downwardly against an upper
surface of the mounting substrate.
[0020]     According to some embodiments, a beverage heating and cooling assembly
comprises a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment, a housing retainer disposed in the drink retaining compartment, the beverage
retainer in thermal communication with the thermal engine compartment, a seal disposed
between an upper edge of the beverage retainer and a collar, and, the seal being at least
light transmissive allowing light to pass through the seal and into the beverage retainer.
[0021]     Optionally, the collar may have a lip. The seal may be disposed on the lip. The
collar may capture said seal on said collar. The seal may have a substantially circular
shape. The seal may comprise a sealing rib disposed along a lower edge. The beverage
heating and cooling assembly may further comprise a shoulder extending into a light notch
of the collar. The shoulder may extend radially into the light notch. A rib may be disposed
along a lower surface of the seal. The rib extending along an edge of the shoulder.
[0022]     According to some embodiments, a beverage heating and cooling assembly
comprises a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment. A beverage retainer has an upper edge. A collar may be positioned above the
beverage retainer. A seal may be disposed between the collar and the beverage retainer,
the seal distributing light into the beverage retainer.
[0023]     Optionally, the seal may have a shoulder extending through the collar. A lower lip
may extend about the seal. The beverage heating and cooling assembly may further
comprise the lower lip extending along the shoulder. The seal may be transparent, or the
seal may be translucent.
[0024]     According to some embodiments, a beverage heating and cooling assembly may
comprise a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a beverage retainer
compartment, a beverage retainer in the beverage retainer compartment in thermal
communication with a thermal engine in the thermal engine compartment, a collar positioned
above the beverage retainer, a seal disposed between the collar and the beverage retainer,

                                                -7
the seal in light communication with a luminaire to illuminate an interior of the beverage
retainer.
[0025]     Optionally, the beverage heating and cooling assembly may further comprise a
fluid channel extending about the housing. The channel may define a flow path to a thermal
assembly surface where a fluid can evaporate. The thermal assembly having dams to inhibit
overflow of the fluid.
[0026]     This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form
that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to
identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended to
be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. A more extensive presentation of
features, details, utilities, and advantages of the present embodiments is provided in the
following written description of various embodiments, illustrated in the accompanying
drawings, and defined in the appended claims.
[0027]     Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0028]     In order that the embodiments may be better understood, embodiments of the
beverage cooler and heater assembly will now be described by way of examples. These
embodiments are not to limit the scope of the claims as other embodiments of the assembly
will become apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art upon reading the instant
description. Non-limiting examples of the present embodiments are shown in figures
wherein:
[0029]     FIG. 1 is an isometric view of an assembled beverage cooler and heater assembly;
[0030]     FIG. 2 is an exploded isometric view of a beverage cooler and heater assembly;
[0031]     FIG. 3 is a side section view of the assembled beverage cooler and heater
assembly;

                                               -8
[0032]     FIG. 4 is a top view of the beverage cooler and heater assembly;
[0033]     FIG. 5 is an exploded isometric view of an alternate beverage cooler and heater
assembly embodiment;
[0034]     FIG. 6 is a partially assembled isometric view of the alternate embodiment of FIG.
5;
[0035]     FIG. 7 is a section view of an alternate embodiment of an interior of a beverage
cooler and heater embodiment;
[0036]      FIG. 8 is an upper isometric view a further alternate embodiment of the beverage
cooler and heater assembly embodiment;
[0037]     FIG. 9 is a partially exploded perspective view of a further alternative embodiment
of the beverage cooler and heater assembly with an alternate connection between the collar
and the beverage retainer assembly;
[0038]     FIG. 10 is a partially exploded perspective view of a still further alternative
embodiment of the beverage cooler and heater assembly with an alternate connection
between the collar and beverage retainer assembly;
[0039]     FIG. 11 is a sectioned isometric view of a further alternative embodiment of th
beverage cooler and heater assembly;
[0040]     FIG. 12 is an exploded isometric view of a portion of the beverage cooler and
heater assembly of FIG. 11;
[0041]     FIG. 13 is a top view of an exemplary light transmissive seal which may be used in
the beverage cooler and heater assembly;
[0042]     FIG.14 is a lower isometric view of the seal of FIG. 13;
[0043]     FIG. 15 is an isometric partial assembly view of an exemplary assembly using the
seal of FIGS 13 and 14;

                                                 -9
[0044]      FIG. 16 is an isometric view of the assembly depicting a fluid channel which directs
water to a surface of the thermal engine assembly; and,
[0045]      FIG. 17 is a detail section view of the light transmissive seal installed in the
beverage cooler and heater assembly.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0046]      It is to be understood that the beverage cooler and heater assembly is not limited
in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth
in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The beverage cooler and heater
assembly is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in
various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein
is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of
"including," "comprising," or "having" and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass
the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items. Unless limited
otherwise, the terms "connected," "coupled," and "mounted," and variations thereof herein
are used broadly and encompass direct and indirect connections, couplings, and
mountings. In addition, the terms "connected" and "coupled" and variations thereof are not
restricted to physical or mechanical connections or couplings.
[0047]      Referring now in detail to the drawings, wherein like numerals indicate like
elements throughout several views, there are shown in FIGS. 1-17, various embodiments of
a beverage cooler and heater assembly. The beverage cooler and heater assembly, which
may also be referred to as an active thermal beverage assembly, includes a collar assembly
and a retainer assembly. The retainer assembly includes a housing which has a
compartment for storage of a drink and a second compartment for storage of a cooling
engine, for example a thermoelectric engine. The thermal beverage assembly allows for
positioning of a collar around and through a hole in a mounting substrate, such as a
countertop of a home, RV or marine craft. The assembly allows for stabilizing of the
assembly from below the mounting substrate, as well as locking of portions of the assembly
above so that the entire assembly captures the mounting substrate therebetween and
provides a desirable and clean installation.
[0048]      Referring now to FIG. 1, an isometric view of an exemplary active thermal
beverage assembly 10 is depicted. The assembly 10 may either cool or heat the beverage

                                               - 10
or be capable of both functions. The active thermal assembly 10 comprises a collar at an
upper end and a beverage retainer assembly below the collar. The active thermal beverage
assembly 10 may be mounted, in part, under a surface of a mounting substrate, for example
a countertop or other planar structure, so that only a hole is seen for placement of the
beverage container, such as a cup, can or bottle. The housing 12 may be formed of various
materials which have low thermal conductivity. This provides desirable insulative
characteristics. Additionally, or alternatively, the housing may have either or both of an
insulation within and/or on the exterior of the housing 12. For example, the interior of the
housing 12 may be partially filled with an expanding foam insulation. The active thermal
beverage assembly 10 includes a housing 12 which is defined by a first compartment 14 and
a second compartment 16. The first housing compartment 14 provides a location for
positioning of the beverage and all the subcomponents that are stored therein for
maintaining the beverage in a cold or heated condition. The second housing compartment
16 provides a location for one or more thermoelectric engine assemblies for either heating or
cooling the beverage located in the first compartment 14. Various thermoelectric engine
assemblies may be used including, but not limited to, a Peltier cooler described further
herein. The second compartment 16 is defined at least in part by a cover 18 which
surrounds the thermoelectric engine assemblies therein. The cover 18 may include a
plurality of vent holes 20 which pulls ambient air in one location and pushes the air across
one or more heat sinks 88 (FIG. 2) within the thermal beverage assembly 10.
[0049]      Disposed at an upper end of the assembly 10 is a collar or collar assembly 30
which is positioned through an opening in a mounting substrate or other planar structure 38
(FIG. 3), such as a countertop. Beneath the collar 30 is a beverage retainer 40 to which the
collar 30 is connected. The retainer 40 is disposed within the first housing compartment 14.
The collar assembly 30 opens into the beverage retainer 40 for positioning of the beverage
container. In this way, a beverage container passes through the collar 30 and into the
beverage retainer 40. The beverage retainer 40 may be formed of various materials which
have good thermal transfer characteristics. For example, various metallic materials may be
used and as one example, aluminum may be utilized. Other materials may be suitable as
well.
[0050]      Extending beneath the housing 12 are a plurality of fasteners 70 which extend
upwardly. These fasteners 70 extend through the housing compartment 14 and engage a
lower surface of the mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3). The beverage retainer 40 is connected

                                               - 11
to the housing 12 and the collar 30 is connected to the beverage retainer 40 in the
exemplary embodiment. Accordingly, as the fasteners 70 are tensioned, the collar 30 is
pulled downwardly against the upper surface of the mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3) while the
housing 12 is pulled against the substrate 38. This tightens the assembly 10 into position
capturing the mounting substrate 38 therebetweeen.
[0051]     Referring now to FIG. 2, the assembly 10 is shown in an exploded isometric view.
Beginning at the top of the figure, the collar 30 is shown having an upper ring 32 which is
seated on an upper surface of the substrate 38 (FIG. 3) for example, of an RV, marine craft,
mobile structure or in a home or other similar static structure. Further, the thermal beverage
assembly 10 is suitable for use in other structures such as for example, RV or truck chairs
which may have a flat upper console surface in for example an arm rest or other similar
structure. The upper ring 32 is oriented horizontally for positioning along the upper
horizontal surface of such substrate 38 (FIG. 3). The upper ring 32 may vary in material,
color, shape and/or contour in various embodiments. For example, the ring 32 may be
formed of plastic or may be plastic and capped with an aesthetically pleasing trim ring 131
(FIG. 5). Additionally, trim rings may be disposed on the upper ring 32 with various finishes
such as chrome, stainless steel, wood finish, carbon fiber or others. Depending from the
ring 32 is a substantially vertical flange 34. The flange 34 has a circular cross-section and
extends into the mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3). The flange 34 includes a plurality of pins 36
which engage one or more tracks 42 located on the beverage retainer 40. The pins 36
extend radially inward from the flange 34 but may alternatively extend radially outward
depending on the positioning of the flange relative the retainer 40. According to still further
embodiments, the pins 36 may be formed integrally, for example molded, with the vertical
flange 34 and may extend radially inwardly, so not to be seen from the outer surface in the
depicted view, or may extend radially outwardly according to other embodiments. The
instant embodiment utilizes pins 36 that extend radially inwardly but as shown in FIG. 2, may
be seen on the outer surface. The pins 36 may be press fit through the flange 34, fastened
or alternatively may be molded integrally. According to still further embodiments, the pins 36
may be substituted with tracks or threads that engage opposite components for connection
with the collar. Still further embodiments may include set screws or other connectors for
fastening the parts together. A variety of mechanisms may be used to provide the twist and
lock functionality. For example, the collar 30 may be threadably engaged to the beverage
retainer 40, the housing 12 or some portion of the housing, such as the housing cover 60.

                                              - 12
[0052]     Beneath the collar 30 is a beverage retainer assembly which may include housing
12 and the beverage retainer 40 within. The housing 12 may be formed in many manners
and with various materials. For example, according to one embodiment, the housing 12 may
be formed of a plastic by way of a molding process or a thermoforming process. Various
materials may have low thermal transfer characteristics so to provide insulative functionality.
Also, additional filler insulation may be used so as to insulate the housing 12 and retainer 40
therein. The collar 30 may extend into an opening of the retainer 40 or extend about the
outer perimeter of the retainer 40. The beverage retainer 40 is generally circular in shape
and has an opening 44 at an upper end which receives a beverage container such as a cup,
can, bottle or the like. Tracks 42 are located at various spaced locations about the periphery
of the upper end 45 of the beverage retainer 40. The tracks are engaged by pins 36 to define
a twist lock bayonet-type connection. Further, the tracks 42 may be on a radial outward
surface, radial inward surface, an upper edge of the beverage retainer 40 or a combination
thereof. The tracks 42 are located so that pins 36 extend radially inward into the tracks 42
and engage therein. However, if pins 36 extend outwardly, the tracks 42 may be located to
receive those in an alternate embodiment. Additionally, the tracks 42 alternatively, may be
located on the collar 30 and the pins 36 disposed on the beverage retainer 40 in an opposite
configuration. Further, the tracks 42 may take various forms. According to the exemplary
embodiment, the track 42 is generally J-shaped such that the collar 30 is pushed
downwardly and turns some arcuate distance by way of rotation to connect the collar 30 to
the beverage retainer 40. Various track configurations may be utilized or alternatively,
threads may be utilized to provide the twist and lock functionality. Such threads may be
continuous or discontinuous. Further, other embodiments may be utilized to provide
connection between the collar 30 and beverage retainer 40. These features allow for twist
and lock of the collar 30 to the beverage retainer 40.
[0053]     Depending from the upper rim and opening 44 of the retainer 40 is a body 46
which is generally cylindrical in shape and extends upwardly to the upper end of the retainer
40. Alternatively, the shape of body 46 may be something other than cylindrical, such as
square, rectangular, or other polygonal shape which can receive a beverage. The body 46
may include at least one drain 47 located near the bottom allowing for condensation to drain
from the retainer 40 outwardly from the assembly 10. Additionally, the beverage retainer 40
may include some locking structure which retains the retainer 40 within a housing 12, and
according to some embodiments, a first compartment 14 of the housing 12. Alternatively,

                                               - 13
the retainer 40 may be adhered in place or welded. In further embodiments, the multi
material construction may be formed integrally when molded.
[0054]      Located beneath the beverage retainer 40 is a spacer or gasket 50. The spacer
50 is circular shaped along an inner perimeter and the outer perimeter but the shape may
vary along its outer perimeter. The spacer 50 also includes an aperture 52 through which
the beverage retainer 40 may be positioned downwardly therethrough. The spacer 50
further comprises a number of cut-outs 54 through which fasteners 70 may pass.
[0055]      The spacer 50 is located in the assembly and is positioned against a lower surface
of a mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3). Thus, the collar 30 and beverage retainer 40 are
positioned downwardly through the top of the substrate 38 (FIG. 3), and the spacer 50 is
positioned against the bottom surface of the substrate 38 (FIG. 3) so that the housing 12
may be seated against the spacer 50. The spacer 50 may further have a sealing function.
Still further, the spacer 50 also may function as and be formed of an insulating material
having thickness which may vary to accommodate mounting surface thickness. The spacer
50 may also be used to vary height of the aid with fitting against surfaces of differing
thicknesses.
[0056]      According to some embodiments, the spacer or gasket 50 may be formed of EPT
(ethylene-propylene terpolymer) foam. The exemplary foam spacer 50 may be a die coat
foam sealing material for example comprising an EPDM (ethylene-propylene-diene
methylene) foam and may comprise a closed cell construction. However, alternate materials
may be utilized. For example, alternative materials may include, but are not limited to,
styrofoam, silicone sealer, fiberglass insulation.
[0057]      Disposed beneath the spacer 50 is a housing cover 60. The cover 60 may take
various shapes which may or may not correspond to the shape of the upper periphery of the
housing 12. The housing cover 60 includes a plurality of side walls 62 including a number of
strengthening ribs 64 extending inwardly from the side walls 62 to a central opening 66. The
ribs 64 may define a plurality of upwardly facing cells as shown. These cells may be filled
with insulation if desired. Alternatively, these cells may be facing downwardly. The opening
66 is defined by wall which extends circularly and has a size capable of receiving at least a
portion of the beverage retainer body 46. The upper edges of the cover 60 provide a lower
seat for the spacer 50 rather than having the cover 60 engage a hard under-surface of a

                                              - 14
mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3). The cover 60 also includes a tab 67 including fastening
holes 68 for connection of the cover 18 thereto.
[0058]     Depending from the cover 60 is a housing flange 69 which has a shape
corresponding to an upper periphery of the housing 12. The housing flange 69 extends into
the housing 12 for connection by various means including, but not limited to, fastening,
welding, braising or other known method. Additionally, the cover 60 may be integrally
formed with the housing 12 as opposed to being formed separately and fastened, joined or
connected afterward.
[0059]     The cover 60 also includes a plurality of fastening apertures 72 which allow
threaded passage of a plurality of fasteners 70 to move through the housing cover 60 toward
a mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3) or surface. The threads may be formed in the cover 60 or
threaded inserts 73 may be located in the apertures 72. As the fasteners 70 are tightened
by rotation, the upper ends of the fasteners 70 engage the lower surface of the substrate 38
(FIG. 3) and cause the cover 60 and housing 12, i.e. the retainer assembly, to move
downwardly away from the collar 30. However, since the collar 30 engages the upper
surface of the mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3), the fasteners 70 are tensioned which tightens
the assembly 10 on opposed sides of and against the mounting substrate 38 (FIG. 3).
[0060]     The housing 12 includes a plurality of channels 76 extending downwardly through
the housing 12 which provides a location where the fasteners 70 may be aligned and moved
upwardly through the housing cover 60.
[0061]     Adjacent to the channels 76 is a divider wall 80 having an aperture 82 therein.
The aperture 82 allows for positioning of a thermoelectric engine assembly 83. The
thermoelectric engine assembly 83 includes a thermal transfer body 84 which is connected
to the beverage retainer body 46 and a thermal engine 86. In the instant embodiment, the
thermal transfer body 84 provides a thermal path for thermal communication between
beverage retainer 40 and a thermal engine 86.
[0062]     The thermal transfer body 84 is sized to pass through the opening 82 in the divider
wall 80 and engage the side wall or body 46 of the beverage retainer 40. This allows heat
transfer, either cold or heat, to a beverage located therein. Alternatively, the thermal transfer
body 84 may be formed to engage the beverage container through the retainer body 46.

                                               -15
One side of the body 84 is curved to increase surface area engagement and maximize
thermal transfer.
[0063]      Adjacent the thermal transfer body 84 is a thermoelectric or thermal engine 86
which according to some embodiments may be a Peltier cooler. The thermoelectric engine
86 is configured to heat or cool the thermal transfer body 84 such that drinks may be stored
in a beverage retainer 40 and maintained at a temperature that is cooler or warmer than the
ambient condition. The thermoelectric engine 86 is a solid-state active heat pump which
transfers heat from one side of the device to the other, with consumption of electrical energy,
depending on the direction of the current. Such an instrument is also called a Peltier device,
Peltier heat pump, solid state refrigerator, or thermoelectric cooler (TEC). The
thermoelectric engine 86 provides thermoelectric effect, that is, the conversion of
temperature difference to electric voltage or vice versa. In the instant embodiment, a voltage
may be applied to the thermoelectric engine 86 in order to create a temperature differential.
The thermoelectric engine 86 has two sides 86a, 86b. In the instant embodiment, a hot side
86a is on the right and a cold side 86b on the left. In general, thermoelectric coolers operate
by the Peltier effect (which also goes by the more general name thermoelectric effect).
When DC current flows through the device, it brings heat from one side to the other, so that
one side gets cooler while the other gets hotter. The hot side 86a is attached to a heat sink
88, which is part of the thermal transfer assembly, so that the hot side 86a remains at or
near ambient temperature, while the cold side 86b functions below room temperature, which
causes thermal transfer from the thermoelectric engine 86 to a heat sink 88. It should be
appreciated that the hot side 86a and the cold side 86b may be reversed for example to
provide heat to the beverage in the beverage retainer 40. In such embodiment, the hot side
86a becomes the cold side and the cold side 86b becomes the hot side 86a. Thus, one
skilled in the art will understand that the labels hot side and cold side are dependent upon
the mode of operation of the thermal beverage assembly 10. Disposed on the heat sink 88
is a fan 89 which creates air movement over the heat sink 88 to remove heat from the
system through the vent apertures 20 located on the cover 18. Movement of air or other
cooling fluid over the heat sink 88 improves convection through the heat sink and therefore
improves thermal operation. The fan 89 may include a may include a motor and a fan disk
including one or more blades which either push air or other cooling fluid over the heat sink
88 or alternatively pulls air over the heat sink 88.

                                               - 16
[0064]     Beneath the thermal engine 86 is an exemplary circuit board 90. The board may
provide control circuitry for operating the thermal engine 86. For example, the engine 86
may include a relay and/or a programmable logic controller. Various control hardware may
be found on the circuit board 90.
[0065]     Optionally, the thermoelectric engine 86 may further comprise a thermal limiter.
The limiter may be located on the circuit board 90 for example or alternatively may be
located at another location structures so that temperature measurements may be taken. For
example a thermal sensor may be located at the heat sink 88 for a high temperature limiter.
Oppositely, a low temperature limiter may be located on thermoelectric cooler 84 to keep the
beverage from freezing at low ambient temperatures. Also, the lower thermal limiter may
also be used to limit on-time of the thermoelectric engine 86 and thereby lower amp hour
consumption thus allowing a longer run time. The thermal limiter may be provided with an
upper limiter. For example, if the ambient temperature is so high that the maximum cooling
cannot cool the beverage to a useful temperature, the limiter may preclude operation of the
engine 86. Similarly, the limiter may comprise a lower limiter which limits operation where
the assembly 10 is heating beverages and the thermal engine cannot operate to heat the
drink to an acceptable temperature due to ambient conditions.
[0066]     It should further be understood that the thermal engine 86 may be used as a
heater. For example, by reversing polarity on the engine 86, the system may be utilized to
add heat to the beverage rather than remove heat. Accordingly a circuit may be provided to
reverse polarity of the thermal engine 86 to allow reversing of the polarity. Further, a
physical switch may be used in the circuit to provide the switching from heating to cooling
functionality as desired by a user. Also, for example, a button or indicator to change color of
any lighting utilized in the assembly 10, described further herein, may also be provided.
[0067]     Extending from near the bottom of the second compartment 16 is an electrical cord
94 which provides electrical power to the thermal engine 86 at the end nearest the second
compartment 16. At an opposite end of the cord 94, the cord 94 may be connected to a
power source, for example a 12V DC source or a 120V AC source, by using a power supply
and/or transformer to provide 12 V DC.
[0068]     Referring now to FIG. 3, a side section view of the beverage cooling assembly 10
is depicted. The collar 30 is seated on and through a mounting substrate 38. A hole 39 is
cut into the mounting substrate 38 wherein the collar flange 34 may be positioned and the

                                              - 17
retainer 40 may extend through. According to this embodiment, the pins 36 extend from the
flange 34 radially inwardly to engage the tracks 42 of the beverage retainer 40. In the
embodiment depicted, the pins 36 have moved downwardly through the vertical portion of
the track 42 and are next rotated toward or near a locked position of the track 42. This
connects the collar 30 and the retainer 40. One of the fasteners 70 is shown extending
through the cover 60. The fastener 70 moves upwardly through a channel 76 so as to
threadably engage the cover 60 and continue through the housing cover 60 to the lower
surface of the mounting substrate 38. Once the substrate is engaged, continued rotation of
the fastener 70 causes the housing cover 60 and housing 12 to move downwardly. Since
the retainer 40 is connected to housing 12, the retainer 40 and collar 30 are pulled down
snugging against the substrate 38.
[0069]      Beneath the substrate 38 is the spacer 50 which is engaged on the lower side by
the housing cover 60 and on the upper side by the substrate 38. This provides some
cushion and sealing effect between the housing cover 60 and the substrate 38. Additionally,
or as an option, the spacer 50 may function as an insulator to aid in maintaining the desired
beverage temperature. Additionally, if utilized, the spacer 50 may function to compensate
for differing thicknesses of substrate 38.
[0070]      The side section view also depicts the arrangement of the thermoelectric engine
assembly 83 relative to the beverage retainer 40. The engine assembly 83 includes the heat
sink 88 and fan 89 which are in thermodynamic communication by way of the thermal
transfer body 84 with the thermoelectric engine 86. The thermal transfer body 84 has a
rounded surface as better shown in FIG. 2 which corresponds to the curvature of the
beverage retainer 40, specifically, body 46. The body 46 includes a protuberance 81 which
engages a channel 85 so that the retainer 40 and cooler 84 are retained in connection with
one another. These structures may alternatively, or additionally, be bonded or joined
together in various fashions so as to improve thermal transfer.
[0071]      At the bottom of the beverage retainer 40 is the drain 47 which is connected to a
tube 49 to allow condensation to be removed from the lower portion of the beverage retainer
40.
[0072]      In the depicted embodiment, the bolts 70 act on the lower surface of a mounting
substrate 38, such as a countertop or other surface. This forces the housing 12, downward
as the bolts 70 rotate and pulls the collar 30 downward. The collar 30 however engages the

                                               -18
upper surface of the substrate 38 and therefore cannot move downwardly. This creates a
friction force between the structures connecting the collar 30 and the beverage retainer 40,
tightening the assembly 10.
[0073]      Referring additionally now to FIG. 4, a top view of the assembly 10 is shown. At
the upper end of the assembly is the collar 30 disposed above the retainer assembly
comprising the housing 12. The first compartment 14 is located beneath the housing
compartment 16 and the second compartment 16 is shown to the right of the first
compartment 14 and partially indicated in broken line since the compartment is inside the
engine cover 18.
[0074]      Through the central opening of the collar 30 is the opening 44 of the beverage
retainer body 46. At the bottom of the body, at least one pusher 48 is shown. In the
exemplary embodiment, two pushers 48 are shown but this number may vary and is not
limiting. The two pushers 48 are angled or tapered from the sidewall of the body 46 to the
bottom. In alternative embodiments, the pusher 48 may extend from the sidewall but not
engage the bottom or alternatively may extend upwardly from the bottom of the body but not
engage the sidewall. As described further herein with reference to FIG. 7 and 8, still further
embodiments may include pushers which are formed separately and inserted into the
beverage retainer body 46. According to some embodiment, for example, an insert may be
located within the body 46 and formed of a pad or pad like structure and having the pushers
formed into the insert. The pad may include a form feature which engages corresponding
structures in a lower area of the body 46 so that the pad does not rotate undesirably within
the body 46. Alternatively, the pusher may be in the form of a pusher structure having push
tabs that are disposed through holes in the retainer body 46 and which lock the pusher in
place once they are through the body 46. The push tabs would be formed of a resilient
compressible materials, such as rubber or a rubber like material that may be compressed
and then expends subsequently to its original shape. The holes may be in the side wall of
the body 46 or may be in the floor. In either embodiment, the push tabs would extend
through the holes, expand and lock the pusher in place on the inside or adjacent to an inner
surface of the body 46.
[0075]      The at least one pusher 48 depicted functions to force or urge a beverage
container toward a right hand side of the assembly, in the view depicted in FIG. 4. With
reference additionally to FIG. 3, the pusher 48 forces the beverage retainer toward the
thermal transfer body 84. This increases thermal communication between the beverage

                                                -19
container, shown in broken line in FIG. 3 and the body 84. Additionally, the pusher may be
sized to fit between projections on larger bottles, such as 20 ounces beverage bottles. As
shown in the embodiment of FIG. 3, the representative beverage container is forced to the
right hand side of the body 46 close to the thermal engine assembly 83.
[0076]      Referring now to Fig. 5, a further alternative embodiment of the coverage cooler
and heater assembly 110 is depicted in isometric view. The assembly 110 includes a collar
assembly 130 which additionally comprises a trim ring 131 which is positioned on the upper
surface of the upper ring 132. The trim ring 131 may be formed of various materials
depending upon the countertop surface wherein the assembly 110 is mounted. For
example, one desirable material for use as the trim ring 131 may be stainless steel. Other
materials may be used, for example, real or faux woods, carbon-printed surface materials
having a pattern or a look of a desired material, be it real or faux.
[0077]      The collar assembly 130 includes an upper ring 132 and a vertical flange 134
depending therefrom. The collar flange 134 depends downwardly and engages a housing
cover 160 including upwardly extending neck 141. In the instant embodiment, the collar
assembly 130 includes a plurality of radially inwardly extending pins 136 which engage
tracks 142 located in the neck 141. Alternatively, collar assembly 130 may be connected to
the neck 141 in other fashions, for example set screws may be utilized or alternatively joining
devices may be used. As a still further alternative embodiment, the collar assembly 130 and
the neck 141 may be formed as a singular part which extends downwardly through the
mounting substrate and engages any, all or a combination of the housing top cover 160, the
housing 112 or the beverage retainer 140. Still further, the neck 141 may be formed as part
of the housing 112 or the housing cover 160 as shown, either of which define the neck as a
portion of the housing.
[0078]      Either or both of the collar flange 134 and upper ring 132 may also include a light
notch 138 which provides for positioning of luminaires, for example LED lights and drivers, or
other luminaire to illuminate the assembly 110. For example, it may be desirable to
illuminate the opening of the collar assembly 130 so that a user can easily see or to position
the beverage when the cabin or other location of use of the assembly 110 is dark.
Alternatively, or additionally, it may be desirable to illuminate the interior of a beverage
retainer 140. The LED lights may be colored to indicate whether heating or cooling is
occurring. For example, if the assembly 110 is in a cooling mode, a blue light may be
emitted from the LED light. Alternatively, the LED may comprise a red output when the

                                               - 20
assembly 110 is in a heating mode. As further options, the LEDs may be other colors, multi
color mode, flashing or patterned output or combinations thereof.
[0079]      Below the collar assembly 130 is the beverage retainer assembly including
beverage retainer 140, the housing 112 and the neck 141. The retainer 140 may include an
upper lip 143 which defines an opening 144 of the retainer 140. Additionally, the retainer
140 includes a body 146 which depends downwardly from the lip 143. The beverage
retainer 140 is generally cylindrical in shape defined primarily by the body 146 but may be of
various alternative geometries. The lip 143 may be seated at or around the upper edge of
the neck 141.
[0080]      At the lower end of the body 146 is at least one beverage pusher 148. The pusher
148 may comprise one or more indentations which extend into the body 146 near the bottom
of the retainer 140. These pushers 148 are angled in the interior of the body 146 so that
when engaged by a can, bottle, or cup, the pusher forces the beverage container toward the
location wherein the thermal electric engine and thermal electric cooler are located.
However, the pushers 148 may be sized so as to fit within indentations that are typically
found within plastic bottles of beverages, for example 20 ounces beverages bottle. This
improves thermal dynamic transfer from the beverage or to the beverage by the components
of the cooler assembly 83. According to one embodiment, two beverage pushers 148 are
utilized in order to force a beverage toward a thermal cooler assembly 183. However,
various numbers of pushers may be used.
[0081]      Shown beneath the retainer 140 are LEDs 139 which are pass through notches of
the retainer lip 143 and emit light through the light notches 138. These allow for illumination
into the opening 144 of the beverage retainer 140 and may be disposed on a printed circuit
board or other controller as would be understood by one skilled in the art. Power may be
supplied to these features through the housing 12 and upwardly through the neck 141 of the
housing cover 160, along the outside surface of the neck 141 or along the inside surface.
The neck 141 may also include reliefs 150 for accommodating structures of the LEDs 139.
As shown in the figure, the LEDs 139 include a printed circuit board 135 upon which the
luminaire may be mounted. The printed circuit board 135 is sized to fit within the notch 149
of the neck 141. A channel may be formed adjacent to the notch 149 to receive power and
control wiring for the printed circuit board 135. A lens 137 may be connected to the printed
circuit board through which light is dispersed and emitted. The lens 137 may engage the
retainer 140 and more specifically, the lens 137 may engage an undersurface of the upper

                                              - 21
ring 132 of the collar assembly 130. In the instant embodiment, and as shown in FIG. 6, the
lens 137 may include locating features, such as holes, which engage pins or other
corresponding locating features on the under surface of the ring 132. This locating of the
lens 137 relative to the upper ring ensures that when the collar assembly 130 is positioned,
the light notch 138 is aligned with the lens 137 allowing emission of light through the collar
assembly 130 and into the retainer 140.
[0082]     As can be seen from this view, the collar assembly 130 is positioned downwardly
over the beverage retainer 140. The retainer 140 passes downwardly through the neck 141
and the cover 160 into the housing 112. The pins 136 extend radially inwardly in this
embodiment and engage the tracks 142. The collar assembly 130 is pushed down and
rotated about the central axis of the neck 141, beverage retainer 140, and collar assembly
130 to lock the collar assembly 130, relative to the neck 141 and capture the retainer 140
therebetween.
[0083]     As opposed to the previous embodiment, the neck 141 and housing top cover 160
are joined together. The undersurface of the top cover 60 may be substantially hollow or
have support structure such as ribs. The hollow undersurface allows for filling with a foam
insulation or other type insulation.
[0084]     An o-ring or other seal 133 is shown between the retainer 140 and the neck 141.
The o-ring 133 inhibits condensation from passing between the retainer 140 and the neck
141. This prevents liquid from moving down the neck 141 damaging the printed circuit board
135 within the neck.
[0085]     According to other embodiments, the collar flange 134 may be a dual-walled
configuration wherein a radially outer wall extends over the neck 141 so as to hide structures
from being seen and an inner wall includes pins which extend radially inwardly to engage the
tracks 142 or a second wall may be further positioned inwardly so that pins may extend
radially outwardly engaging tracks 142 while the outer flange hides tracks and relieves from
view.
[0086]     According to the instant embodiment, the neck 141 may extend upwardly through
a mounting substrate or similar surface and may be retained by the engagement collar
assembly 130 and more specifically pins 136.

                                                 - 22
[0087]      Beneath the neck 141 is the remainder of the housing cover 160. The internal
portions of the cover may include a recess or other formed structure to receive nuts 173, for
example lock nuts or other locking feature. Beneath the nuts 173 are bolts 170. While these
bolts are shown above the housing 112, when constructed, the bolts pass through the
housing 112 and upwardly to engage the housing cover 160 and nuts 173 therein. The
housing cover 160 also comprises a tab 167 including plurality of fastening apertures for
engagement of the cover 118 for the cooler assembly 183. The bolts 170 pass through
guides 176 in the housing 112 and through the nuts 173 and housing cover 160 so as to
engage the bottom surface of the mounting substrate through which the neck 141 extends.
As a further alternative, the housing may have an external flange that is either formed with
the housing our connected thereto during manufacturing or installation, such that the bolt or
fasteners 170 extend through the flange, rather than directly through the housing as shown.
As still a further alternative, an internal flange may be used within the housing 112 so that
the fasteners 170 extend through the flange within the housing 112.
[0088]      A drain tube 145 is positioned through a lower opening in the housing 112. The
drain tube 145 extends from and is in fluid communication with a drain 147 at the lower end
of the retainer body 146. The arrangement may be provided in other manners but the result
is that condensation may be drained from the beverage retainer 140 through the housing
112. Further, the assembly 110 may drain to a location beneath the housing 112 or
alternatively may be carried by tubes to alternate locations of the vehicle, boat or structure
for removal of the moisture. The remaining portions of the assembly 183 are generally the
same as previously described therefore are not reiterated here.
[0089]      Referring now to Fig. 6, an isometric view of the assembly 110 is depicted wherein
the collar assembly 130 is separated from the remainder of the assembly 110. The collar
assembly 130 is shown removed from the neck 141 as would be customary during
installation. The collar assembly 130 is positioned through a hole in an upper surface of a
mounting substrate or other planar surface wherein the assembly 110 is to be mounted. The
collar assembly 130 includes the pins 136 extending radially inwardly through a lower portion
of the assembly which is positioned through the lower surface opening in a mounting
substrate. In this way, the neck 141 extends therethrough to toward the collar assembly 130
extending through the mounting substrate from above. The pins 136 of the collar assembly
130 and the tracks 142 come into engagement and upon engagement with the tracks 142,
the collar assembly 130 is rotated which causes the tightening of the lower portion of the

                                              - 23
assembly 110 toward the collar assembly 130 or alternatively causes the collar assembly
130 to pull downwardly toward the lower portion of the assembly 110. The bolt or fasteners
170 are also shown extending upwardly through the housing cover 160 as previously
described nuts may be located along the bottom surface of the housing cover 160 and
retained so as to provide threadable engagement with the fasteners 172 alternatively, the
housing cover 160 may itself be threaded so as to provide for threadable engagement with
the fasteners 170. Once the collar assembly 130 is engaging the track 142, and locked in
position the fasteners 170 may be rotated and engage the lower surface of the mounting
substrate. This pulls the bottom surface down and causes a tight frictional engagement
between the pins 136 and the tracks 142. Specifically, the pins 136 will engage the upper
surface of the tracks 142 as the fasteners 170 pull the assembly downward away from the
lower surface of the mounting substrate.
[0090]     The LED assemblies 139 are also shown mounted to retainer lip 143 and
extending downwardly into the neck 141. Each LED assembly 139 shines light inwardly into
the retainer 140 near the upper most part of the opening 144. Specifically, according to one
embodiment, the LED shines light through the openings or notches 138 in the collar
assembly 130. As previously described, the LED assembly 139 may output a light color
corresponding to the lighting provided. For example, when cooling the output light may be
blue for example. Alternatively, when heating the output light may be red. Further output
light arrangements may be provided, for example other colors, multi-color or flashing lights
or combinations thereof. The power is provided to the unit through the power cord 194
shown at the bottom of the figure to power the engine assembly 83, 183 as previously
described.
[0091]     Referring out of FIG. 7, a section view of an alternate thermal cup assembly 210 is
depicted. The assembly 210 includes a housing to 12 and a beverage retainer 240 therein.
A collar 230 is positioned above the housing to 12 and connected to the beverage retainer
240. As previously indicated, the beverage retainer 240 may further include beverage
pushers 248 in order to force a beverage retainer toward the thermal transfer body 284. In
the instant embodiment, pushers 248 are formed separate from the beverage retainer 240
and have tabs 249 which extend through holes formed in the beverage retainer 240. The
tabs 249 may be formed of a flexible resilient material which maybe depressed to pass
through the holes in the body 246 and subsequently expand once through the holes. The
pushers 248 may be form of metal, plastic, foam, rubbers or other synthetic materials and/or

                                             - 24
the like. When a beverage is placed within the beverage retainer 240, the beverage can,
bottle or cup engage the pushers 248 as the can, bottle or cup moved into the beverage
retainer 240 and moved toward the thermal transfer body 284.
[0092]     Referring now to FIG. 8, an upper perspective view of a further alternative thermal
cup assembly 310 is depicted. In this embodiment, an insert 347 is positioned in the lower
most portion of the beverage retainer 340. The insert 347 may be formed of various
materials such as plastic, rubber, foam, synthetics or the like. The insert 347 further
comprises pushers 348 formed integrally therewith.     In order to inhibit rotation of the insert
347, the beverage retainer 340 may be formed with a plurality of protuberances 345 shown
with broken lead line. Correspondingly, the insert 347 may include forms 349 which are
positioned over the protuberances 345 and inhibit rotation of the insert 347 about a vertical
axis, extending downwardly through the assembly 310. The bottom of the insert 347 may
further comprise an aperture which allows for drainage to condensate in a manner as
previously described.
[0093]     Referring now to FIG. 9, a perspective view of a further alternative embodiment of
cup cooler assembly 410 is depicted. The assembly 410 is similar to previous embodiments
and comprises a collar 430 and a beverage retainer assembly including the beverage
retainer 440, housing 412 and neck 441 extending from top cover 460. The housing 412
may include a beverage retainer compartment and a thermal engine compartment as
previously described. The housing 412 may also include a housing cover 418 covering the
portions of the thermal transfer components, as with previous embodiments, ad defining at
least a portion of the thermal engine compartment. As also in the previous embodiments,
the beverage retainer 440 of the neck 441 may include assemblies for lighting such as LEDs
439 and lenses 437.
[0094]     Of relevance to the instant embodiment, the collar 430 may include male or female
threads 433a located on the vertical depending surface and the neck 441 may have opposed
engaging threads 433b. A spacer 450 may be located on the neck 441 so that when the
collar 430 is screwed into place, the spacer 450 may compensate for differing thickness of
mounting substrate (not shown) and allows the assembly to tighten against the upper and
lower surfaces of the substrate. Further, the collar 430 may include a trim ring 431 which
may be adhered to the collar 430, if desired to provide various finishes to the upper surface
of the collar 430.

                                              - 25
[0095]      Referring now to FIG. 10, a further embodiment is provided wherein the collar 530
and beverage retainer assembly, including housing 512, beverage retainer 540 and neck
541, are connected by at least one fastener 571. In this embodiment, the at least one
fastener 571 extends through the collar 530 and downwardly through the housing 512 and
more specifically, through the housing top cover 560. As the at least one fastener 571 is
tightened, the housing 512 pulls upwardly against the lower surface of the mounting
substrate (not shown). In this way, the mounting substrate is clamped or captured between
the collar 530 and the housing 512, specifically the top cover 560. A spacer 550 may be
located on the housing 512 and used to compensate for varying thicknesses of mounting
substrates. The fastener 571 may be a countersunk type of screw 570 so that the fastener
top is flush with the collar 530 top surface. Additionally, a trim ring 531 may be positioned on
the upper surface of the collar 530 to hide the fasteners, once the structure is assembled
and installed.
[0096]      Referring now to FIG. 11, a cross-sectional view of a further embodiment of a
beverage heating and cooling assembly 600 is depicted in a sectioned isometric view. The
assembly 600 includes a housing 612 having a first compartment 614 and a second
compartment 616. The first compartment 614 is utilized to retain a beverage retainer 640
and provides for drainage of fluid build-up therefrom while keeping the beverage retainer 640
substantially insulating the retainer 640.
[0097]     Within the second compartment 616, a thermal assembly 683 is provided for
cooling or heating of the beverage retainer 640. The thermal assembly 683 engages the
beverage retainer 640 to remove or add heat from or to the retainer 640. A cover 618
connects to the housing 612 to enclose the second compartment 616 and the thermal
assembly 683 therein.
[0098]     At the upper end of the beverage retainer 640 is a collar assembly 630. The collar
assembly 630 maintains the beverage retainer 640 in position vertically and inhibits liquid or
other material from entering the space between a housing neck 641 and the beverage
retainer 640. Additionally, the collar assembly 630 captures a mounting substrate between
the collar assembly 630 and the housing 612.
[0099]     Within the collar assembly 630, are first seal 633 and second seal 675 (FIG. 12).
The radially outward seal 675 (FIG. 12) provides a sealing engagement between the collar
assembly 630 and an upper surface of a mounting substrate (not shown).

                                               - 26
[00100]    The collar assembly 630 also includes a trim ring 631 which is located along the
upper surface of the collar upper ring 632. The trim ring 631 may be formed of various
finishes including a wood finish, stainless steel, satin nickel or any material which may be
desirable to match the surroundings of the mounting substrate. The upper ring 632 and
flange 634 are collectively referred to as the collar.
[00101]    At the inner perimeter of the trim ring 631 is a notch 638. The notch 638 allows for
light to pass through the trim ring 631 and/or the upper ring 632 of the collar assembly 630.
As will be described further, the light notch 638 may be located in either or both of the trim
ring 631 and the upper ring 632 depending on size and construction. For example, the collar
assembly 630 may include one or both of the trim ring 631 and the upper ring 632 and
various constructions are considered within the scope of present embodiments.
[00102]    Referring now to FIG. 12, an exploded isometric view of portions of the assembly
600 is shown. At the upper end of the exploded assembly 600 is the trim ring 631. The trim
ring 631 includes an inner rim 650 having the previously discussed notch 638. In the instant
embodiment, two notches 638 are utilized however, one or more notches may be utilized
depending upon the construction of the upper collar assembly 630 and the light output
desired within the beverage retainer 640. The trim cover 631 is positioned on the upper
surface of the upper ring 632. The inner edge of the upper ring 632 may also comprise a
notch 639 allowing light through the portion of the upper ring 632 and to continue passing
through the notch 638. As previously indicated however, the one or both of the trim ring 631
and the upper ring 632 may include these notches and the notches are shown but not
required in both parts of the assembly.
[00103]    Depending from the upper ring 632 is a vertical flange 634 which extends
circumferentially. This flange 634 depends downwardly and includes pins 636 which engage
the tracks 642 (FIG. 11) of the neck 641 (FIG. 11). Positioned beneath the upper ring 632
and the flange 634 is a first light transmissive seal 633. The first seal 633 is located
between the inner rim 650 of the trim ring 631 and the radially inside inner surface of the
flange 634. The seal 633 (also shown in FIG. 11) inhibits any fluid which builds up within the
beverage retainer 640 from backing up between the trim ring 631 or upper ring 632 and the
upper edge or surface of the beverage retainer 640. If such backup were to occur, the fluid
would interfere with printed circuit boards and/or LED lights located near the upper lip 643 of
the beverage retainer 640.

                                                - 27
[00104]    The light transmissive seal 633 is generally captured or sandwiched between the
upper lip 643 of the beverage retainer 640 and the upper ring 632 at the intersection with the
flange 634. The seal 633 is formed of at least a light transmissive material. The seal 633 is
positioned adjacent to the at least one notch 638, 639 and extends therefrom. This allows
the sealing functionality so as to prevent water from backing up between the beverage
retainer 640 and the collar thereby providing protection to the LED lights which are
positioned adjacent to the one or more notches 638, 639. Additionally, however, while
providing the sealing function, the seal 633 also allows dispersion of light through the at least
one notch 638, 639 and into the beverage retainer 640 to illuminate the retainer 640 and
improve visual indication to a user of where the opening within the retainer is located so as
to correctly place a beverage therein during use in low light/no light conditions.
[00105]    The seal 633 further comprises a shoulder 655 which extends into the at least one
notch 638, 639. This seal shoulder 655 functions in part as a lens to allow light to pass
through from positions near the upper lip 643 of the beverage retainer 640 and through the
collar and trim ring 631 for illumination of the interior of the beverage retainer 640. The
shoulder 655 is positioned in the notch or cut-away 639 on a radially inward side of the
flange 634 and inner edge of upper ring 632. The shoulder 655 may also extend into or
through the notch 638 of the trim ring 631 if utilized.
[00106]    Disposed beneath the seal 633 is an outer substrate seal 675. The substrate seal
675 is mounted within the collar between the flange 634 and the outer peripheral edge of the
upper ring 632. The seal 675 engages the mounting substrate (not shown) and limits fluid
from passing between the mounting substrate and the upper ring 632 and therefore prevents
any fluid movement along downwardly along the flange 634 into or along the housing 612 of
the assembly 600.
[00107]    Beneath the substrate seal 675 is the beverage retainer 640 comprising the upper
lip 643. Along the upper lip 643 are LED luminaires 644. These are provided near locations
corresponding to the seal shoulder 655 and the notches 638, 639.
[00108]    Referring now to FIG. 13, a top view of the first seal 633 is depicted. The seal
includes a body 654 which is generally circular in shape and may be rectangular in cross
section, for example. The seal body 654 includes an upper surface 657 and the at least one
shoulder 655 which extends radially inwardly from the seal body 654. In the instant
embodiment, two shoulders 655 may be utilized. The upper surface 657 is generally flat

                                                - 28
although other surface shapes may be utilized. For example, sealing ribs may be located
along the upper surface and may extend circumferentially, radially or in other combined
orientations. In the instant embodiment, the upper surface 657 is flat to engage with a
smooth lower surface of the upper ring 632 on the radially inward side of the flange 634
(FIG. 12). Additionally, structures may extend along the upper surface 657 in the
circumferential direction or in the radial direction so as to inhibit unintentional rotating of the
seal 633. In the instant embodiment, these shoulders 655 also provide such anti-rotation or
anti-clocking functionality.
[00109]     The shoulders 655 extend radially inwardly from the seal body 654 such that the
upper surface of the shoulder 655 is smooth and aligned with the upper surface 657 of the
seal body 654. The surfaces, however, may also be offset depending on the surrounding
structure and the configuration needed for proper sealing.
[00110]     As previously described, the seal 633 is formed of at least a light transmissive
material. This may be either a fully transparent material or a translucent material which
transfers at least some amount of light through the seal 630 and outwardly through the
shoulders 655. The seal material may also transmit a focused beam of light or disperse the
light to spread light within the beverage retainer. Thus, the shoulders 655 effectively act as
lenses extending through notches in the trim ring 631 and/or the upper ring 632 (FIG. 12) of
the collar.
[00111]     Referring now to FIG. 14, the bottom surface of the seal 633 is depicted from a
lower isometric view. The seal body 654 is generally flat along the lower surface 659.
Extending substantially circumferentially along the inner radial edge of the surface 659 is a
rib 670. The rib 670 is substantially circular except at the shoulders 655 where the rib 670
follows the shape of each of the at least one shoulder 655. In the instant embodiment, the
shoulders 655 are generally rectangular when viewed from the bottom and from the radially
inward direction looking out. The rib 670 is substantially U-shaped to follow the radially
inward peripheral edge of the shoulder 655.
[00112]     It should also be noted that the at least one shoulder 655 may take various
alternate shapes depending upon the shape of the at least one notch 638, 639 so as to have
an alternate appearance when the seal 633 is removed.

                                                 - 29
[00113]    With reference now to FIG. 15, an isometric view of a portion of the assembly 600
is depicted. The housing 612 is shown with the neck 641 extending from near an upper
portion. At an upper end of the neck 641, the upper lip 643 of the beverage retainer 640 is
depicted engaging the upper surface of the neck 641 and extending downwardly through the
neck 641 into the housing 612. The neck 641 may further comprise a channel 651 which
extends vertically toward the LED location to allow for wiring to extend therethrough. Within
a channel 653, beneath the wiring channel 651, are a plurality of wiring retainers 658. These
keep the wiring neatly organized within the channel 653.
[00114]    Positioned above the upper lip 643 of the beverage retainer 640 is the light
transmissive seal 633. The seal 633 is substantially aligned with recesses in the upper lip
643 and the neck 641 wherein LED luminaires may be positioned. The shoulders 655 are
seated above these recesses so that light shines at the LEDs (not shown), the seal 633
allows light to pass through the seal body material 654 and through the shoulders 655 into
the interior of the beverage retainer 640.
[00115]    Referring now to FIG. 16, the assembly 600 is shown from a different angle to
reveal a further embodiment of the design. At the lower end of the neck 641 is a
condensate/overflow channel 653. The channel 653 may receive fluid which spills that move
along the exterior surface of the neck 641, fluid which is able to move about the seal 633 or
fluids which condensate on the exterior of the neck 641, for example. As the fluid moves
down along the neck 641, it is collected in the channel 653. The housing 612 may be
installed to have a slight tilt so that fluid moves within the channel 653 from a first side (left
side) of the housing 612 to the right side having the exploded cover 618.
[00116]    Toward the right hand end of the channel 653 is at least one flow opening 656.
The fluid is routed through the channel 653 to the opening 656 where the fluid may then
move to the upper surface of the thermal assembly 683. On this upper surface, which has
an elevated temperature during cooling, fluid will evaporate. The evaporation may also
occur due to the flow of air moving within the second compartment 616. The upper surface
of the thermal assembly 683 may comprise a heat sink surface for example. Further, a
water dam 661, 663 is shown at each end of the thermal assembly 683 to prevent fluid from
running over the ends of the surface and damaging other electronics associated with the
thermal assembly 683.

                                                  - 30
[00117]     Referring now to FIG. 17, a detailed view of the collar is depicted including the trim
ring 631, the upper ring 632 and the flange 634. On the radially outer side of the flange 634
is the substrate seal 675. As depicted, the seal 675 has a lowermost elevation which is
lower than the lower edge of the outer ring 632 adjacent to the seal 675 and the trim ring
631. This provides that the seal 675 engages a substrate such as a countertop or other
surface within which the thermal beverage assembly 600 is positioned. On the radially
inward side of the flange 634 is the first seal 633. As depicted, the rib 670 is shown
engaging the upper lip 643 of the beverage retainer 640. The rib 670 engaged with the
upper lip 643 provides that fluid cannot back up along the wall of the beverage retainer 640
and between the upper ring 632 and the upper lip 643. If such fluid backup occurs, the seal
633 and rib 670 stop the fluid from traveling radially outward and damaging electronics
associated with the luminaire, for example, the LEDs which illuminate the interior of the
beverage retainer 640, as well as electronics related to the thermal assembly 683.
[00118]     While a single rib 670 is shown extending around the interior of the seal 633, one
skilled in the art will realize that alternate rib arrangements may be utilized. As previously
described, ribs may be located along the upper surface and/or additional ribs may be located
along the lower surface of the seal 633. The ribs may be purely circumferential in
arrangement or alternatively, may be radially arranged, shaped to correspond to a shoulder,
notch or other structure or combination thereof.
[00119]     While several inventive embodiments have been described and illustrated herein,
those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and/or
structures for performing the function and/or obtaining the results and/or one or more of the
advantages described herein, and each of such variations and/or modifications is deemed to
be within the scope of the invent of embodiments described herein. More generally, those
skilled in the art will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials, and
configurations described herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters,
dimensions, materials, and/or configurations will depend upon the specific application or
applications for which the inventive teachings is/are used. Those skilled in the art will
recognize, or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation, many
equivalents to the specific inventive embodiments described herein. It is, therefore, to be
understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only and that,
within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereto, inventive embodiments
may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and claimed. Inventive

                                                 - 31
embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to each individual feature, system,
article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any combination of two or
more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods, if such features,
systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is included
within the inventive scope of the present disclosure.
[00120]      All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control over
dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or ordinary
meanings of the defined terms. The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the
specification and in the claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood
to mean "at least one." The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the
claims, should be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e.,
elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other
cases.
[00121]      Multiple elements listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e.,
"one or more" of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other
than the elements specifically identified by the "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated
to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to "A
and/or B", when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising" can
refer, in one embodiment, to A only (optionally including elements other than B); in another
embodiment, to B only (optionally including elements other than A); in yet another
embodiment, to both A and B (optionally including other elements); etc.
[00122]      As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood to
have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating items
in a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion of at least
one, but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and, optionally,
additional unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as "only one of"
or "exactly one of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will refer to the inclusion of
exactly one element of a number or list of elements. In general, the term "or" as used herein
shall only be interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one or the other but not
both") when preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as "either," "one of," "only one of," or
"exactly one of." "Consisting essentially of," when used in the claims, shall have its ordinary
meaning as used in the field of patent law.

                                                - 32
[00123]    As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list
of elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This
definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements
specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least one" refers,
whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting
example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A or B," or, equivalently
"at least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at least one, optionally
including more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally including elements other than
B); in another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, B, with no A
present (and optionally including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to at
least one, optionally including more than one, A, and at least one, optionally including more
than one, B (and optionally including other elements); etc.
[00124]    It should also be understood that, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, in any
methods claimed herein that include more than one step or act, the order of the steps or acts
of the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method
are recited.
[00125]    In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
"comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding," "composed
of," and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but not
limited to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of" and "consisting essentially of" shall
be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.
[00126]    The foregoing description of several methods and an embodiment of the invention
has been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit
the invention to the precise steps and/or forms disclosed, and obviously many modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the
invention and all equivalents be defined by the claims appended hereto.

                                                - 33
CLAIMS
1.          A beverage heating and cooling assembly, comprising:
            a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment;
            a housing retainer disposed in said drink retaining compartment, said beverage
retainer in thermal communication with said thermal engine compartment;
            a seal disposed between an upper edge of said beverage retainer and a collar;
            a light source adjacent to said seal;
            said seal being at least light transmissive allowing light from said light source to
pass through said seal and into said beverage retainer.
2.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 1, said collar having a lip.
3.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 2, said seal disposed on
said lip.
4.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 3, said collar capturing said
seal on said collar.
5.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 1, said seal having a
substantially circular shape.
6.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 5, said seal comprising a
sealing rib disposed along a lower edge.
7.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 5, further comprising a
shoulder extending into a light notch of said collar.
8.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 7, said shoulder extending
radially into said light notch.
9.          The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 7, a rib disposed along a
lower surface of said seal.

                                                - 34
10.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 9, said rib extending along
an edge of said shoulder.
11.        A beverage heating and cooling assembly, comprising:
           a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment;
           a beverage retainer having an upper edge;
           a collar positioned above said beverage retainer;
           a seal disposed between said collar and said beverage retainer;
           said seal distributing light into said beverage retainer.
12.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 11, said seal having a
shoulder extending through said collar.
13.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 12, a lower lip extending
about said seal.
14.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 13, further comprising said
lower lip extending along said shoulder.
15.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 11, said seal being
transparent.
16.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 11, said seal being
translucent.
17.        A beverage heating and cooling assembly, comprising:
           a housing having a thermal engine compartment and a beverage retainer
compartment;
           a beverage retainer in said beverage retainer compartment in thermal
communication with a thermal engine in said thermal engine compartment;
           a collar positioned above said beverage retainer;
           a seal disposed between said collar and said beverage retainer, said seal in light
communication with a luminaire to illuminate an interior of said beverage retainer.

                                               - 35
18.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 17 further comprising a fluid
channel extending about the housing.
19.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 18, said channel defining a
flow path to a thermal assembly surface where a fluid can evaporate.
20.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 19, said thermal assembly
having dams to inhibit overflow of said fluid.
21.        A beverage heating and cooling assembly, comprising:
            a housing having a first thermal engine compartment and a second drink retaining
compartment;
            a beverage retainer disposed within said drink retaining compartment;
            a thermoelectric engine assembly to transfer heat to and from the beverage
retainer;
            a collar engaging one of said beverage retainer and a portion of said housing;
and,
            wherein said collar is capable of capturing a mounting substrate on an upper
surface and said housing below said mounting substrate.
22.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said collar having one of
a pin and a track for connecting with said beverage retainer, and said one of said beverage
retainer and said portion of said housing having the other of said pin and said track
23.         The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, further comprising a
plurality of fasteners which engage an under surface of said mounting substrate.
24.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21 further comprising a
spacer disposed between said housing and said collar.
25.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said first engine
compartment formed at least in part by a cover.
26.        The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 25, said cover having a
plurality of air flow apertures.

                                            - 36
27.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said thermoelectric
engine assembly including a thermal engine.
28.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 27, said thermoelectric
engine assembly including a thermal transfer body engaging said thermal engine.
29.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21 further comprising a fan
for moving air across said thermal engine assembly.
30.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 27 further comprising said
thermal engine in thermodynamic communication with at least one of a thermal transfer body
and said beverage retainer.
31.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21 further comprising a
housing top cover.
32.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 31, said plurality of fasteners
passing through said housing top cover.
33.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said housing engaging
said beverage retainer.
34.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 33, said beverage retainer
being formed of a metallic material.
35.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said plurality of fasteners
having caps which engage said lower surface.
36.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said housing having
channels for passage of said fasteners.
37.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said housing having a
housing top cover with an upstanding neck.
38.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 37, said neck having one of
a track and a pin.

                                              - 37
39.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 38, said collar having the
other of said track and said pin.
40.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 37, said beverage retainer
having luminaires at an upper end.
41.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 40, said collar having a
notch aligned with said luminaires for illumination of said beverage retainer.
42.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, said collar having a trim
ring.
43.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21 further comprising a
pusher disposed within said beverage retainer to force a beverage container toward said
thermoelectric engine assembly.
44.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 43, said pusher formed in
said beverage retainer.
45.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 43, said pusher formed
separate of said beverage retainer and connected thereto.
46.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 43, said pusher formed on
an insert which is positioned within said beverage retainer.
47.       The beverage heating and cooling assembly of Claim 21, wherein said collar is
threadably engaging said one of a beverage retainer and said portion of said housing.
48.       An active thermal beverage assembly, comprising:
           a collar and a beverage retainer assembly including a housing for a beverage
retainer and a thermal engine assembly;
           said collar engaging said beverage retainer assembly, said beverage retainer
assembly including a beverage retainer, a housing and a neck wherein a planar structure
may be captured between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly;

                                              - 38
           at least one fastener forcing said beverage retainer assembly downward and
causing frictional engagement between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly, and
further pulling said collar downwardly against said planar structure.
49.        An active thermal beverage assembly, comprising:
           a collar which engages a beverage retainer assembly including a neck;
           said beverage retainer assembly including a housing having a first beverage
retainer compartment, a second thermal engine compartment, a beverage retainer, and a
neck;
           a thermoelectric engine assembly in thermal communication with a beverage
retainer to add or remove heat to said beverage retainer;
           at least one fastener extending upwardly from said beverage retainer assembly
which engages an undersurface of a mounting substrate and pulls said collar downwardly
against an upper surface of said mounting substrate.
50.        The active thermal beverage assembly of Claim 49, further comprising a threaded
connection between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly.
51.        The active thermal beverage assembly of Claim 50 further comprising a spacer
disposed between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly.
52.        The active thermal beverage assembly of Claim 49, further comprising a bayonet
connection between said collar and said beverage retainer assembly.
53.        An active thermal beverage assembly, comprising:
           a collar which engages a beverage retainer assembly including a neck;
           said beverage retainer assembly including a beverage retainer, a housing, and a
neck;
           a thermoelectric engine assembly in thermal communication with a beverage
retainer to add or remove heat to said beverage retainer;
           at least one fastener extending downwardly through said collar and into said
beverage retainer assembly.
54.        The active thermal beverage assembly of Claim 53 further comprising a trim ring
disposed on an upper surface of said collar and covering said at least one fastener.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
