                                            ABSTRACT
         The utility model relates to a retractable mite removing bag, comprising a body,
   wherein the body is in a cylindrical shape, a bottom plate of the body is fixedly connected
   with a side wall, and a top plate of the body is movably connected with the side wall, so as
 5 to open an upper end opening of the body; the body is made of a soft material, and is
   foldable; the side wall and the bottom plate are made of an opaque material; the top plate is
   made of a non-opaque material; and an upper end and a lower end of the body are
   respectively provided with a support ring, so that the upper and lower ends of the body are
   maintained in a deployed state; and a spiral strut is disposed on the side wall of the body to
10 maintain the body in an upright deployed state, and the body may be compressed into a flat
   shape when pressed. The utility model is of reasonable design, and is simple in structure
   and and convenient to use, articles that need removal of mites may be placed directly in the
   mite removing bag, and heat of sunlight may be absorbed to generate high temperature
   inside to kill the mites, thereby effectively satisfying people's demand on high quality of
15 life.

  4
3
26
1
    5        6
      FIG. 1

                      RETRACTABLE MITE REMOVING BAG
                                          BACKGROUND
   Technical Field
        The utility model relates to an article for daily use, in particular to a device suitable for
 5 removing mites from household pillows and bedding, and in particular to a retractable mite
   removing bag.
   Related Art
        With improvement of people's living standards, understanding of mites is becoming
   more and more comprehensive. Mites easily breed on pillows and bedding to cause
10 discomfort such as itching of skin. Traditional methods of removing mites are to place the
   pillows and the bedding directly in the outdoor sunlight to kill the mites. However, it is
   difficult to stop dust in the air when the pillows and bedding are directly exposed to
   sunlight. At the same time, the mites cannot die unless the temperature reaches 40 degrees
   or above, and the temperature in the outdoor sunlight rarely reaches 40 degrees or above,
15 and especially people living in high latitude areas cannot remove mites in such a method of
   direct exposure. Therefore, it is necessary to design a device that may remove mites
   conveniently to meet demands of the society.
                                             SUMMARY
        The objective of the utility model is to provide a retractable mite removing bag aiming
20 at the difficulties encountered in removing mites. The utility model not only may
   effectively remove the mites on bedding, but also is simple in structure, convenient and
   hygienic to use and easy to store, so that it may fully meet the requirements.
        The technical solution of the utility model is as follows:
        A retractable mite removing bag comprises a body, wherein the body is in a cylindrical
25 shape, a bottom plate of the body is fixedly connected with a side wall, and a top plate of
   the body is movably connected with the side wall so as to open an upper end opening of the
   body; the body is made of a soft material, and is foldable; the side wall and the bottom plate
                                                    1

   are made of an opaque material; the top plate is made of a non-opaque material; an upper
   end and a lower end of the body are respectively provided with a support ring, so that the
   upper and lower ends of the body are maintained in a deployed state; and a spiral strut is
   disposed on the side wall of the body to maintain the body in an upright deployed state, and
 5 the body may be compressed into a flat shape when pressed.
        Further, the top plate is connected to the side wall by a zipper; and the zipper surrounds
   an outer periphery of the top plate, so that the upper opening of the body is fully opened
   before articles are placed in the body.
        Further, a lifting handle is provided on an upper end of the body for easy handling.
10      Further, a bottom end of the body is provided with a buckle on an outer side, and a
   corresponding button on an inner side, and the body may be maintained in a flat shape by
   connection of the buckle and the button after the body is compressed.
        The utility model has the beneficial effects as follows:
        The utility model is of reasonable design, and is simple in structure and convenient to
15 use, articles that need removal of mites may be placed directly in the mite removing bag,
   and heat of sunlight may be absorbed to generate high temperature inside to kill the mites,
   thereby effectively satisfying people's demand on high quality of life.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Fig. 1 is a schematic view of the utility model,
20      wherein 1 indicates a body, 2 indicates a strut, 3 indicates a lifting handle, 4 indicates a
   top plate, 5 indicates a buckle, and 6 indicates a support ring.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        The utility model is further described with reference to the Drawings and the
   embodiment below.
25      As shown in Fig.1,
        a retractable mite removing bag comprises a body 1, wherein the body 1 is in a
                                                   2

   cylindrical shape, and may be in another shape. A bottom plate of the body 1 is fixedly
   connected to a side wall, and a top plate 4 of the body 1 is movably connected with the side
   wall so as to open an upper end opening of the body 1. The body 1 is made of a soft
   material, and is foldable to facilitate use and storage. The side wall and the bottom plate are
 5 opaque to facilitate absorbing radiant heat of sunlight. The top plate 4 is non-opaque for
   convenience of light incoming to obtain more heat. Preferably, the side wall and the bottom
   plate may be made of a 210T black polyester spun composite TPU (thermoplastic
   polyurethane elastomer rubber) black film, and the top plate 4 may be made of transparent
   PE. An upper end and a lower end of the body 1 are respectively provided with a support
10 ring 6 to keep the upper and lower ends of the body 1 in a deployed state. The side wall of
   the body 1 is provided with a spiral strut 2 to keep the body 1 in an upright deployed state,
   and the body 1 may be compressed into a flat shape when pressed. Preferably, the support
   ring 6 is made of a steel wire, so that it has sufficient strength. The strut 2 may be a spring,
   so that it not only has sufficient support strength but also may be compressed for storage.
15 The side wall and an end part of the body 1 may be provided with a pipe corresponding to
   the support ring 6 or the strut 2, so as to facilitate penetration of the support ring 6 or the
   strut 2 to keep the appearance neat and aesthetic.
        The top plate 4 is connected to the side wall by a zipper; and the zipper surrounds an
   outer periphery of the top plate, so that the upper end opening of the body 1 is fully opened
20 before articles are placed in the body.
        A lifting handle 3 is provided on an upper end of the body 1 for easy handling.
        A bottom end of the body 1 is provided with a buckle 5 on an outer side and a
   corresponding button on an inner side. The body 1 may be compressed when the utility
   model is not used, and the body 1 is maintained in a flat shape by connection of the buckle
25 5 and the button to prevent the body from being deployed by the strut 2, thereby facilitating
   storage or handling.
        The parts not involved in the utility model are all the same as the prior art or may be
   realized by the prior art.
                                                   3

                                             CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
         1. A retractable mite removing bag, comprising a body, and characterized in that the
   body is in a cylindrical shape, a bottom plate of the body is fixedly connected with a side
 5 wall. and a top plate of the body is movably connected with the side wall so as to open an
   upper end opening of the body; the body is made of a soft material, and is foldable; the side
   wall and the bottom plate are made of an opaque material; the top plate is made of a
   non-opaque material; an upper end and a lower end of the body are respectively provided
   with a support ring, so that the upper and lower ends of the body are maintained in a
10 deployed state; and a spiral strut is disposed on the side wall of the body to maintain the
   body in an upright deployed state, and the body may be compressed into a flat shape when
   pressed.
         2. The retractable mite removing bag according to claim 1, wherein the top plate is
   connected to the side wall by a zipper; and the zipper surrounds an outer periphery of the
15 top plate, so that the upper end opening of the body is fully opened before articles are
   placed in the body.
         3. The retractable mite removing bag according to claim 1, wherein a lifting handle is
   provided on an upper end of the body for easy handling.
         4. The retractable mite removing bag according to claim 1, wherein a bottom end of
20 the body is provided with a buckle on an outer side, and a corresponding button on an inner
   side, and the body may be maintained in a flat shape by connection of the buckle and the
   button after the body is compressed.
                                                 4

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 1

