                                        ABSTRACT
A method of geophysical data processing, comprising:
      obtaining, at a geophysical data processing system, geophysical data specific to a
              geophysical formation, wherein the geophysical data includes:
              a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                       pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the first
                       pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors towed at a
                       first depth; and
              a second set of data representative of a second particle motion signal and a
                       second pressure signal, wherein the second particle motion signal and
                       the second pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                       towed at a second, greater depth;
      generating, by the geophysical data processing system, information corresponding to
              first and second wave separation equations from the first and second sets of
              data respectively, wherein the first and second wave separation equations each
              include a cross-line wave number parameter;
      determining, by the geophysical data processing system, a cross-line wave number
              value for the cross-line wave number parameter based on a corresponding
              difference in results between up-going pressure wavefields for the first and
              second equations;
      processing the geophysical data to determine an up-going wavefield using the
              determined cross-line wave number value; and
      generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined up-going
              wavefield.

[0001] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Number
61/840,452, filed on June 27, 2013, which is incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety.   This application is related to U.S. Application Number               , filed on
November 7, 2013, entitled "INVERSION TECHNIQUES USING STREAMERS AT
DIFFERENT DEPTHS," which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                                      BACKGROUND
[0002] Geophysical surveys are often used for oil and gas exploration in geophysical
formations, which may be located below marine environments. Various types of signal
sources and geophysical sensors may be used in different types of geophysical surveys.
Electromagnetic (EM) surveys, for example, may be conducted using EM signals
transmitted by an EM source and detected by EM sensors. Seismic geophysical surveys,
for example, are based on the use of acoustic waves. In seismic surveys, a survey vessel
may tow an acoustic source (e.g., an air gun or a marine vibrator) and a plurality of
streamers along which a number of acoustic sensors (e.g., hydrophones                 and/or
geophones) are located. Acoustic waves generated by the source may then be transmitted
to the earth' s crust andthen reflected back and captured at the geophysical sensors. Data
collected during a marine geophysical survey may be analyzed to locate hydrocarbon
bearing geological structures, and thus determine where deposits of oil and natural gas
may be located.
[0003] During a seismic survey, up-going wavefields may reflect from the water surface,
resulting in down-going ghost signals that may be detected by geophysical sensors along
with desired up-going wavefields from the formation. Ghost signals may attenuate the
up-going wavefield and cause notches in measured signals at particular frequencies.
Reduction or elimination of these notches may improve survey resolution.
                                              1

[0003A] It is desired to provide a method and non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium that alleviate one or more difficulties of the prior art, or to at least provide a
useful alternative.
                                           SUMMARY
[0003B] In accordance with some embodiments of the invention there is provided a
method of geophysical data processing, comprising:
        obtaining, at a geophysical data processing system, geophysical data specific to a
                geophysical formation, wherein the geophysical data includes:
                a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                         pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the
                         first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                         towed at a first depth; and
                a second set of data representative of a second particle motion signal and a
                         second pressure signal, wherein the second particle motion signal
                         and the second pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical
                         sensors towed at a second, greater depth;
        generating, by the geophysical data processing system, information corresponding
                to first and second wave separation equations from the first and second
                sets of data respectively, wherein the first and second wave separation
                equations each include a cross-line wave number parameter;
        determining, by the geophysical data processing system, a cross-line wave
                number value for the cross-line wave number parameter based on a
                corresponding difference in results between up-going pressure wavefields
                for the first and second equations;
        processing the geophysical data to determine an up-going wavefield using the
                determined cross-line wave number value; and
        generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined up
                going wavefield.
                                                 2

[0003C] In accordance with some embodiments of the invention there is provided a non
transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that are
executable by a computing device to perform operations comprising:
        obtaining geophysical data from a geophysical formation, wherein the
                geophysical data includes:
                a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                         pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the
                         first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                         towed at a first depth; and
                a second set of data representative of a second particle velocity signal and
                         a second pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal
                         and the first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical
                         sensors towed at a second, greater depth;
        generating a wave separation model that includes a cross-line wave number
                parameter; and
        determining a cross-line wave number value for the cross-line wave number
                parameter based on a corresponding difference in results between up
                going pressure wavefields for the first and second sets of data; and
        generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined cross
                line wave number parameter.
[0003D] In accordance with some embodiments of the invention there is provided, in a
technological method of imaging subterranean geological structures that includes:
        obtaining, at a geophysical data processing system, geophysical data specific to a
                geophysical formation, wherein the geophysical data includes:
                a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                         pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the
                         first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                         towed at a first depth; and
                a second set of data representative of a second particle motion signal and a
                         second pressure signal, wherein the second particle motion signal
                                                 3

                        and the second pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical
                        sensors towed at a second, greater depth;
        the specific improvement comprising:
                generating, by the geophysical data processing system, information
                        corresponding to first and second wave separation equations from
                        the first and second sets of data respectively, wherein the first and
                        second wave separation equations each include a cross-line wave
                        number parameter;
                determining, by the geophysical data processing system, a cross-line wave
                        number value for the cross-line wave number parameter that
                        minimizes a difference between an up-going pressure field for the
                        first equation and an up-going pressure field for the second
                        equation; and
                generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined
                        cross-line wave number value, thereby providing increased
                        resolution for the image.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0003E] Some embodiments of the present invention are hereinafter described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0004] Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a geophysical survey
system.
[0005] Fig. 2 is a diagram illustrating exemplary ghost signals in a geophysical survey.
[0006] Fig. 3 is a diagram illustrating exemplary ghost function amplitude versus
frequency for particle motion signals and pressure signals in one embodiment.
                                               4

[0007] Fig. 4 is a diagram illustrating exemplary ghost function amplitude versus
frequency for particle motion signals and pressure signals at different receiver depths in
one embodiment.
[0008] Fig. 5 is a diagram illustrating exemplary ghost function amplitude versus
frequency on a logarithmic scale for pressure signals at different receiver depths in one
embodiment.
[0009] Fig. 6 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method for geophysical
data processing.
[0010] Fig. 7 is a flow diagram illustrating one embodiment of a method for generating a
geophysical data product.
[0011] Fig. 8 is a flow diagram illustrating another embodiment of a method for
geophysical data processing.
                                              5

                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0012] This specification includes references to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment."
The appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" do not
necessarily    refer to the   same embodiment.          Particular features,   structures, or
characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure.
[0013] Various units, circuits, or other components may be described or claimed as
"configured to" perform a task or tasks.      In such contexts, "configured to" is used to
connote structure by indicating that the units/circuits/components include structure (e.g.,
circuitry)   that performs   the   task  or tasks     during   operation.     As   such,   the
unit/circuit/component can be said to be configured to perform the task even when the
specified unit/circuit/component is not currently operational (e.g., is not on).          The
units/circuits/components used with the "configured to" language include hardware-for
example, circuits, memory storing program instructions executable to implement the
operation, etc. Reciting that a unit/circuit/component is "configured to" perform one or
more tasks is expressly       intended not to invoke 35 U.S.C.            § 112(f) for that
unit/circuit/component.
[0014] Further, as used herein, the terms "first," "second," "third," etc. do not necessarily
imply an ordering (e.g., temporal) between elements.         For example, a reference to a
"first" sensor and a "second" sensor may refer to any two different sensors. In short,
references such as "first," "second," etc. are used as labels for ease of reference in the
description and the appended claims.
[0015] This disclosure initially describes, with reference to Fig. 1, an overview of a
geophysical survey system. It then describes an exemplary geophysical survey system
with streamers at different depths with reference to Fig. 2.            Ghost functions for
geophysical sensors at different depths and techniques for combining data from
geophysical sensors at different depths are described with reference to Figs. 3-8. In some
                                               6

embodiments, the techniques disclosed herein may improve survey resolution and/or may
reduce streamer cost/complexity. Consequently, data collected during such a marine
geophysical survey may better predict the location of hydrocarbon-bearing geological
structures, and thus better determine where deposits of oil and natural gas may be located.
[0016] Referring to Fig. 1, a block diagram illustrating one embodiment of a geophysical
survey system 100 is shown. In the illustrated embodiment, system 100 includes survey
vessel 10, signal sources 32, paravanes 14, and streamers 20.
[0017] Survey vessel 10 may be configured to move along the surface of body of water
11 such as a lake or the ocean. In the illustrated embodiment, survey vessel 10 tows
streamers 20, signal sources 32, and paravanes 14. In other embodiments, streamers 20
may be towed by a second survey vessel (not shown), rather than or in addition to survey
vessel 10.    Survey vessel 10 may include equipment, shown generally at 12 and for
convenience collectively referred to as "survey equipment." In still other embodiments,
signal sources 32 may be towed by one or more additional survey vessels rather than or in
addition to survey vessel 10. Survey equipment 12 may include devices such as a data
recording unit (not shown separately) for making a record with respect to time of signals
generated by various geophysical sensors in the system 100. Survey equipment 12 may
also include navigation equipment (not shown separately), which may be configured to
control, determine, and record, at selected times, the geodetic positions of: survey vessel
10, each of a plurality of geophysical sensors 22 and 29 disposed at spaced-apart
locations on streamers 20, and/or signal sources 32.           Geodetic position may be
determined using various devices, including global navigation satellite systems such as
the global positioning system (GPS), for example. In the illustrated embodiment, survey
vessel 10 includes geodetic positioning device 12A while signal sources 32A and 32B
respectively include geodetic positioning devices 33A and 33B.
[0018] In the geophysical survey system 100 shown in Fig. 1, survey vessel 10 tows two
signal sources 32A-B.        In various embodiments, survey vessel 10 may tow any
appropriate number of signal sources, including as few as none or as many as 6 or more.
                                              7

The location of the signal sources may be centered behind survey vessel 10 or displaced
from the center line, and may be at various distances relative to survey vessel 10,
including attached to the hull. Signal sources 32A and 32B may be any type of signal
source known in the art. Each signal source 32 may include an array of multiple signal
sources.   For example, signal source 32A may include a plurality of air guns or EM
sources. The term "signal source" may refer to a single signal source or to an array of
signal sources. In various embodiments, a geophysical survey system may include any
appropriate number of towed signal sources 32.      In the illustrated embodiment, signal
sources 32 are each coupled to survey vessel 10 at one end through winch 19 or a similar
spooling device that enables changing the deployed length of each signal source cable 30.
Survey equipment       12 may include signal source control equipment (not shown
separately) for selectively operating and maneuvering signal sources 32.
[0019] Geophysical sensors 22 and 29 on streamers 20 may be any type of geophysical
sensor known in the art. In one embodiment, geophysical sensors 22 are hydrophones
while geophysical sensors 29 are geophones. In some embodiments, streamers 20 may
include more than two different types of geophysical sensors (additional types not
shown). Non-limiting examples of such geophysical sensors may include particle motion
responsive seismic sensors such as geophones and accelerometers, pressure responsive
seismic sensors such as hydrophones, pressure-time-gradient responsive seismic sensors,
electrodes, magnetometers, temperature sensors or combinations of the foregoing.        In
various implementations of the disclosure, geophysical sensors 22 and 29 may measure,
for example, seismic or electromagnetic field energy indicative of the response of various
structures in the Earth' s subsurface formation below the bottom di body of water 11 to
energy imparted into the subsurface formation by one or more of signal sources 32.
Seismic energy, for example, may originate from signal sources 32, or an array of such
sources, deployed in body of water 11 and towed by survey vessel 10. A wire loop or
electrode pair may be used to impart electromagnetic energy, for example.        In some
embodiments, streamers 20 include tail buoys 25.
                                             8

[0020] In some embodiments, streamers 20 may include devices such as birds (not
shown) configured to maintain streamers 20 in a desired position (e.g., at a specified
depth and/or lateral displacement). In some embodiments, survey equipment 12 may be
configured to tow streamers 20 using various geometries such as different feather angles,
depth profiles etc. In some embodiments, streamers 20 may include multiple geodetic
positioning devices (not shown).
[0021] In the geophysical survey systeml00 shown in Fig. 1, survey vessel 10 tows four
streamers 20.    In various embodiments, survey vessel 10 may tow any appropriate
number of streamers, including as few as none or as many as 26 or more. In geophysical
survey systems such as shown in Fig. 1 that include a plurality of laterally spaced-apart
streamers, streamers 20 are typically coupled to towing equipment that secures the
forward end of each of streamers 20 at a selected lateral position with respect to adjacent
streamers and with respect to survey vessel 10. For example, as shown in Fig. 1, the
towing equipment may include two paravanes 14 coupled to survey vessel 10 via
paravane tow ropes 8. In the illustrated embodiment, paravanes 14 are the outermost
components in the streamer spread and may be used to provide lateral streamer
separation. In some embodiments, survey vessel 10 may be configured to tow different
streamers 20 at different depths, e.g., directly above and below each other and/or at
different depths and different lateral displacements from a centerline of survey vessel 10.
[0022] Survey equipment 12, in one embodiment, includes a computing system (not
shown separately) for, inter alia, processing data from geophysical sensors 22 and 29. In
other embodiments, a computing system at another location may process geophysical
data gathered by geophysical survey system 100 (e.g., on land after a survey has been
conducted). A computing system may include or be configured to access a non-transitory
storage medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable to perform various
operations described herein. A computing system may include one or more processors
configured to execute program instructions to perform various functionality described
herein.
                                               9

[0023] Referring now to Fig. 2, a diagram illustrating a side view of one embodiment of
a survey vessel 10, streamers 20A-B, and a reservoir 220 is shown.
[0024] In the illustrated embodiment, signal source 32 is configured to generate an
acoustic wavefield that travels in all directions.       The illustrated dashed lines show
particular parts of the exemplary wavefield that are reflected and/or refracted by various
media. In the illustrated embodiment, reflected waves 230 are reflected from interfaces
between reservoir 220 and surrounding strata as well as being refracted at an angle
corresponding to the difference in the speed of the acoustic waves in the different media
(in the illustrated embodiment, reflection/refraction at the ocean floor and/or between
other formations is not shown to simplify illustration). In the illustrated embodiment,
some acoustic waves travel along the bedrock and emerge as refracted waves 240. The
up-going wavefield may be analyzed to determine information about reservoir 220 and
surrounding geophysical formations, for example. The techniques disclosed herein may
be used for both reflected and refracted acoustic waves.
[0025] As used herein, the term "geophysical formation" refers to any of various
compositions or features in the earth and its environment such as rocks, metals, oil
reservoirs, or water reservoirs, for example.        For example, some formations may be
mostly sandstone while other formations may be mostly shale. Geophysical formations
may be differentiated from other nearby formations at varying levels of distinctiveness
between formations. Thus, this term is not intended to be limited to any particular size,
classification, distinctiveness, etc. of formations.
[0026] Typically, as shown, acoustic waves may be reflected from the surface of the
body of water. The reflected waves are often referred to as "ghost" signals. Down-going
ghost signals may interfere constructively or destructively with up-going wavefields
depending on the depth of a towed sensor and the wavefield signal frequency. In the
illustrated embodiment, geophysical sensor 22A receives both up-going and down-going
wavefields from signal source 32. In various embodiments, it may be advantageous to
separate the up-going wavefield from the down-going wavefield in order to determine
                                                10

information about subsea geographic formations. Also, more accurate survey results can
typically be obtained when analyzing wavefields over a spectrum of frequencies, so
avoiding notches in the spectrum (e.g., caused by destructive interference of ghost
signals) may be advantageous.
[0027] In the illustrated embodiment, survey vessel 10 is configured to tow streamers
20A and 20B at two different depths. The depth of streamer 20A is represented by zI
while the depth of streamer 20B is represented by z2. The vertical distance between the
streamers is represented by z3.   In the illustrated embodiment, streamer 20A includes
geophysical sensors 22 and 29, wherein geophysical sensors 29 are particle motion
sensors (which may also be referred to as particle velocity sensors), and geophysical
sensors 22 are pressure sensors, while streamer 20B includes only geophysical sensors 22
(i.e. pressure  geophysical sensors) but not particle motion sensors.          In other
embodiments, the deeper streamer 20B may also include particle motions sensors and/or
EM sensors, for example.     Towing streamers 20A-B at different depths may facilitate
separating the up-going and down-going wavefields in various embodiments.
[0028] Many variations of streamers towed at different depths may be employed in
accordance with this disclosure. Exemplary diagrams corresponding to streamer depths
of 25meters and 100meters are shown in Figs. 3-5 to facilitate explanation of one
embodiment, but streamers at various depths are contemplated in other embodiments. In
some embodiments, multiple streamers may be towed at each depth.                In some
embodiments, streamers may be towed at multiple different depths (e.g., one or more
streamers at 25m, one or more streamers at 50m, one or more streamers at 75m, etc.). In
some embodiments, streamers at different depths may be towed directly above and below
each other, while in other embodiments streamers at different depths may be offset from
each other in the cross-line direction (e.g., the y-direction in Fig. 2). Any of various
differences in towing depth (e.g., z3 in Fig. 2) may be implemented in various
embodiments.    For example, in some embodiments, the difference between zI and z2
may be ~10 meters, ~50 meters, ~100-200 meters, greater than 200 meters, etc. Further,
the shallowest streamer may be towed at any of various different depths including ~10
                                             11

meters, -25 meters, -50 meters, etc.       However, in some embodiments, as will be
described below, the shallowest streamer is towed above a particular minimum depth.
[0029] Towing a streamer at a particular depth does not imply that every part of the
streamer remains exactly at the particular depth at every point in time. Rather, towing a
streamer at a particular depth is typically associated with an acceptable amount of
deviation from the depth. For example, survey vessel 10 may tow a streamer at a depth
of 50 meters with an acceptable deviation of 5 meters (10% in this situation), meaning
that parts of the streamer may be as deep as 55 meters or as shallow as 45 meters.
Further, streamers may be towed using non-horizontal depth profiles with different
portions of a streamer towed at different target depths. However, in some embodiments,
survey data may be improved if a given portion of a towed streamer is as close to a
desired towing depth as possible in given survey conditions.         Similarly, when one
streamer is towed "directly above" another streamer, the two streamers will typically not
be perfectly aligned during operation, but may slightly deviate from alignment. Thus,
various acceptable deviations may occur in various embodiments.
[0030] This disclosure first describes wave separation techniques for a single streamer,
and then describes exemplary embodiments of wave separation techniques for streamers
towed at different depths.
Wave Separation Techniques for a Single Streamer
[0031] With a dual-sensor or multi-component towed streamer comprising both pressure
sensors and motion sensors, the up-going and down-going wavefields may be separated,
through scaled or weighted summation of the measured wavefield components, for
example. In some embodiments, the up-going and down-going pressure wavefields, Pu
and Pd, respectively, may be calculated from the measured pressure wavefield P and
vertical velocity wavefield component Vz and expressed in the frequency domain as
follows:
            -P S1(1)-
            P          "V,
                                             12

and
                        kPd=
                                                                                      (2)
where   to is angular frequency, p is water density, and k2 is vertical wave number in the z
direction, given by:
where c is the speed of sound in water (typically ~1500 meters per second), and k, and k,
are the horizontal wave numbers in the x direction (typically inline, parallel to streamers
20) and y direction (typically cross-line, perpendicular to the towing direction),
respectively. In other embodiments, other wave separation equations may be utilized.
The particular equations disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting, but merely
illustrate exemplary equations for various determinations. Generally, wave separation
equations allow separation of up-going and down-going waves based on data that
includes measurements of both pressure and particle motion or pressure gradient data.
[0032] However, as mentioned above, ghost signals may interfere with measurements of
the pressure wavefield and the vertical velocity wavefield component.             The ghost
functions (which result from a combination of the up-going wavefield and ghosted
signals) for the pressure Gp and the particle velocity Grz may be expressed as:
         Gp =1 +                                                                      (4A)
and
         G    =1 - r                                                                  (4B)
where r is the reflection coefficient of the sea surface and z is the receiver depth (e.g., zI
or z2 in the illustrated embodiment).
[0033] Referring now to Fig. 3, a graph illustrating the amplitude of theoretical ghost
functions in one embodiment versus frequency of a wavefield signal is shown. In the
illustrated embodiment, the dotted line represents the vertical velocity ghost function
Gv while the solid line represents the pressure ghost function GP for receivers at a depth
                                              13

of about 25meters. In the illustrated embodiment, both functions are illustrated for a
wavefield signal at zero degree emergent angle to simplify explanation.
[0034] At zero degree emergent angle relative to the vertical (e.g., a wavefield signal
coming straight up to a geophysical sensor 22 or 29), k, and k, are zero. In this particular
case, the ghost functions in equations (4A) and (4B) may be written as
         6p =    +                                                                      (5A)
and
         G,              L                                                              (5B)
and the reflection coefficient rat the sea surface is typically close to -1.
[0035] As shown, the pressure ghost function has notches where V             '   = I , which is
when 2zw/c = 0, 27r, 47r, etc. Thus, the notches occur at nc/2z Hz, where n is 0, 1, 2, etc.
Similarly, the particle velocity ghost function has notches where V            ' = -- 1 , which
is when 2zw/c = r, 3r, 57r, etc. Thus, the notches occur at mc/4z Hz, where m is 1, 3, 5,
etc.   A notch may occur when the ghosted signal and up-going wavefield signal
destructively interfere, resulting in inability to measure a wavefield signal at that
particular frequency. In contrast, at the peaks in Fig. 3 (at approximately 6 dB), the
ghosted signal and up-going wavefield signal may constructively interfere, resulting in a
stronger wavefield signal at that particular frequency. The term "notch" refers to a dip in
the strength of a measured wavefield signal at a particular frequency; in the case of
destructive interference, the strength of the wavefield signal may be at or near zero, as
shown.
[0036] As shown, where the pressure ghost function has a notch, there is a peak in the
particle velocity ghost function and vice versa. Therefore, these ghost functions typically
complement each other. Also note that the pressure ghost function has a notch at 0 Hz,
and that the amplitudes roll off below the peak at 15 Hz. Therefore, pressure
measurements typically have limited amplitudes at very low frequencies.
                                               14

[0037] In the illustrated diagram, it appears that the particle velocity measurements can
be used to fill in the notch at 0 Hz in the pressure measurements. However, in practice,
noise levels in the low-frequency end of the spectrum typically interfere with measured
signals from motion sensors.       Low-frequency noise may originate from a variety of
sources, including vibration in towed streamers, for example. Low-frequency noise may
vary in different geophysical survey systems.      In some embodiments, particle motion
sensors are noisier than pressure sensors up to about 30-40 Hz. However, the noise may
be reduced by combining particle motion and pressure data. For example, U.S. Patent
No. 7,359,283 describes techniques "for combining signals of pressure sensors and
particle motion sensors in marine seismic streamers."
[0038] In some embodiments, the vertical particle velocity may be estimated from the
pressure measurements using the following expression:
         V'     -      IP- -re-1z
                   P   I+ re--Z%                                                    (6)
where V'z is the estimated vertical velocity wavefield and P is the measured total pressure
wavefield.     In some embodiments, the low-frequency part of the measured vertical
particle velocity is modified (e.g., replaced by, combined with, or adjusted based on) the
low-frequency part of the estimated vertical particle velocity to generate a rebuilt (reb)
vertical particle velocity signal. For example, this modification may be performed using
the equation:
         V7"= Ft V'7 + FuV.                                                         (7)
where FL and FH are corresponding low-pass and high-pass filters, for example such that:
         Ft + Fu=1                                                                  (8)
[0039] In one embodiment, the low-/high-pass corner frequency may be set such that it
between 0 Hz and the first ghost notch above 0 Hz in the pressure wavefield (notch 320
in the illustrated diagram). Said another way, it may be set below c/2z Hz for zero degree
emergent angle. In some embodiments, filters may implement any of various tapering
techniques near cutoff points.       In other embodiments, any of various appropriate
                                              15

techniques may be used to modify particle velocity signals using particle velocity
information that is estimated based on pressure measurements with particle velocity
signals, e.g., in place of and/or in addition to such filters. As used herein, "modifying" a
signal typically refers to modifying data that represents the signal.          For example,
Vromay be described as produced by modifying V. using estimated particle velocity
information.
[0040] The output from equation (7) may be used as input in equations (1) and (2) to
determine the wave separation. However, because the low-frequency part of the particle
velocity measurements is replaced with an estimated particle velocity wavefield
calculated from the total pressure wavefield, the wavefield signal levels in the low
frequency end may be limited by the roll-off of the pressure ghost function near 0 Hz.
[0041] One way of increasing the strength of the measured pressure signal in the low
frequency end may be to tow the streamer at a greater depth. However, this may cause the
pressure ghost notch 320 at c/2z Hz (where the particle velocity measurements are used
to fill in the notch) to occur at too low a frequency. At such low frequencies, the
measurements from the particle motion sensors may be too noisy to allow covering the
notch 320 with particle motion data. Therefore, this may limit how deep a multi
component streamer can be towed in practice before causing notches in the measured
spectrum, in some embodiments.
[0042] In some embodiments with streamers at different depths, a shallowest streamer
may be shallow enough such that a ghost function for pressure sensors on the shallowest
streamer does not have a notch that falls within a frequency range in which noise in
measured particle motion signals is greater than noise in measured pressure signals. This
may allow covering of the notches in the pressure signal from the shallowest streamer by
particle motion data. Low-frequency noise may cause particle velocity signals to be
noisier than pressure signals in the low frequency end (e.g., from 0 to about 15-50 Hz)
with the frequency range varying for different types of streamers and/or different survey
                                               16

conditions. In some embodiments, a shallowest streamer may be towed at a depth of
about 15 to 50 meters.
Wave Separation Techniques Using Streamers at Different Depths
[0043] In some embodiments, pressure data from one or more deeper streamers is used to
estimate low-frequency particle velocity signals. This may improve estimates of low
frequency particle motion data because of increased strength of low-frequency pressure
signals measured by the deeper streamer.
[0044] Referring now to Fig. 4, a diagram illustrating ghost functions including a
theoretical pressure ghost function for a greater streamer depth is shown.          In the
illustrated embodiment, a pressure ghost function for a sensor towed at about 100meters
is shown using a dashed line while the particle velocity and pressure ghost functions for a
sensor towed at about 25metersare shown using dotted and solid lines respectively. As
shown, the first pressure notch after 0 Hz for the 100meter streamer has moved closer to
0 Hz compared to the ghost function of a sensor on the 25meter streamer. However, the
amplitude has also increased in the low-frequency end of the spectrum compared to the
ghost function at 25meters. For example, the peak at point 420 is significantly higher
than the signal level in the 25meter ghost function at the same frequency. Further, in
some embodiments, pressure signals from the 25meter pressure sensor may be used to fill
in the first notch after 0 Hz in the pressure signals from the 100meter pressure sensor.
This may result in survey results with strong low-frequency signals and without
significant notches over a wide spectrum.
[0045] Referring now to Fig. 5, a diagram illustrating ghost functions for pressure
sensors at different depths on a logarithmic frequency scale is shown. As shown, for a
frequency range from 0 Hz up to about 3 Hz (i.e., frequency range 550), the ghost
function for the 100meter pressure sensor depth is about 10-12 dB above the ghost
function for the 25meter pressure sensor depth. Therefore, particle velocity information
estimated based on the deeper streamer may be more accurate, e.g., because of a higher
                                             17

signal to noise ratio in the signals from the deeper streamer.      Various techniques for
combining geophysical data from streamers at different depths are described below.
[0046] In various embodiments, combining data from streamers at different depths may
require transforming the data from one or more of the streamers to the same datum level
in order to provide an accurate estimate of the particle velocity signal from the pressure
data from the deep streamer. For example, in one embodiment, a computing system is
configured to apply a redatuming from the depth level of the deep streamer to the depth
level of the shallower streamer and calculate the vertical particle velocity wavefield at a
datum level equivalent to the shallower streamer.       In one embodiment, this may be
performed using the equation:
                   pm1    + re -                                                    (9)
wherez1 is the depth of the shallower streamer, z2 is the depth of the deeper streamer, and
P2 is the total pressure wavefield measured by the deep streamer. The term B M           4
represents a redatuming from depth z2 to depth z1.        In one embodiment, this second
estimate ( KV i]iz} of the particle velocity wavefield may be combined with the
estimated particle velocity wavefield and the measured particle velocity wavefield from
the shallower streamer using the equation:
         V,*   =  FLA(PIAV      + FHiV'z) + FK2%                                    (10)
whereFLl and     FHI  are corresponding low-pass and high-pass filters for applying to the
estimated particle motion information and   FL2 and FH2 are corresponding low-and high
pass filters to be applied for merging the estimated particle motion information with the
measured particle velocity wavefields. In one embodiment, FLamay have a cutoff
frequency near the higher-frequency end of frequency range 550 and         FHJ  may have a
cutoff frequency near the lower-frequency end of frequency range 560.            Frequency
ranges 550 and 560 may be referred to as first and second portions of a low-frequency
range of a measured signal. For example, pressure data from pressure signals at different
depths may be used to estimate particle motion information in frequency ranges 550 and
560, which may in turn be used to modify first and second portions of a low-frequency
range of a measured particle motion signal. In the illustrated embodiment, frequency
                                             18

range 560 is a higher-frequency portion of the low frequency range than frequency range
550. In some embodiments, the resulting particle velocity wavefield Vz        from equation
(10) may be used as input to a wave separation computation (e.g., in place of V when
using equations (1) and (2)).
[0047] In some embodiments, FLI may have a cutoff frequency between 2 Hz and 4 Hz.
In some embodiments,     FL2  may have a cutoff frequency between 10 Hz and 40 Hz. In
some embodiments, FLI and FHI may be set based on the peaks in ghost functions for
streamers. For example, for a deepest streamer, FLI may be set to have a cutoff frequency
within 1 Hz of a peak in a ghost function for that streamer.       Other filter ranges may
similarly be set to within 1 Hz, 2 Hz, 4 Hz, etc. of a corresponding peak in a ghost
function for the particular streamer. In other embodiments, filter cutoff frequencies may
be set based on other considerations.
[0048] In other embodiments, alternative ways of combining estimated and measured
particle velocity wavefields may be used.        For example, in some embodiments, a
weighted summation of the wavefields either using deterministic or optimized weights
(e.g. based on determined signal to noise ratio in the different measurements) may be
used. For example, in one embodiment, different weight factors may be determined for
estimated particle motion information and measured particle motion information, and the
estimated and measured information may be combined based on the weight factors. In
some embodiments, the weight factors are determined based on signal to noise ratios
associated with the estimated particle motion information and measured particle motion
signal. In other embodiments, the weight factors may be based on other criteria.
[0049] In some embodiments, pressure sensors on one or more deeper streamers may be
sparsely distributed relative to pressure sensors on a shallower streamer. For example, a
shallower streamer may include 1.5-10 times as many pressure sensors along a given
interval as a deeper streamer in some embodiments without significantly impacting
survey resolution. This may be achievable because the deeper pressure sensors are used
only for estimations based on lower-frequency measurements in these embodiments.
                                              19

Further, as shown in the embodiment of Fig. 2, deeper streamers such as streamer 20B
may not include particle velocity sensors. This may reduce the cost and/or complexity of
deeper streamers.      Reducing complexity of streamers may reduce drag and/or noise
produced by streamers.       Further, some geophysical survey systems may implement
deeper streamers with EM sensors, for example. In some embodiments, pressure sensors
may be added to existing EM streamers in geophysical survey systems, which may
further reduce the cost of such systems.
[0050] Referring now to Fig. 6, one embodiment of a method 600 for geophysical data
processing is shown. The method shown in Fig. 6 may be used in conjunction with any
of the computing systems, devices, elements, or components disclosed herein, among
other devices. In various embodiments, some of the method elements shown may be
performed concurrently, in a different order than shown, or may be omitted. Additional
method elements may also be performed as desired. Flow begins at block 610.
[0051] At block 610, geophysical data specific to a geophysical formation is obtained.
The geophysical data may be obtained by conducting a geophysical survey or accessing
data from a geophysical survey, for example. In this embodiment, the geophysical data is
representative of:
    e   a particle motion signal recorded using sensors towed at a first depth
    e   a first pressure signal recorded using sensors towed at the first depth, and
    e   a second pressure signal recorded using sensors towed at a second, greater depth
Flow proceeds to block 620.
[0052] At block 620, a low-frequency range of the particle motion signal is modified
using particle motion information that is estimated based on the second pressure signal.
This may improve resolution in processing the geophysical data, e.g., by replacing noisy
low-frequency particle motion measurements. Flow ends at block 620.
[0053] Referring now to Fig. 7, one embodiment of a method 700 for generating a
geophysical data product is shown.        The method shown in Fig. 7 may be used in
                                              20

conjunction with any of the computing systems, devices, elements, or components
disclosed herein, among other devices. In various embodiments, some of the method
elements shown may be performed concurrently, in a different order than shown, or may
be omitted. Additional method elements may also be performed as desired. Flow begins
at block 710.
[0054] At block 710, a first streamer is towed at a first depth. In this embodiment, the
streamer includes a plurality of particle motion sensors and a plurality of first pressure
sensors.  In one embodiment, the first depth is less than 25 meters. Flow proceeds to
block 720.
[0055] At block 720, a second streamer is towed at a second, greater depth.         In this
embodiment, the second streamer includes a plurality of second pressure sensors and
does not include particle motion sensors. In some embodiments, the number of pressure
sensors on the second streamer is smaller than the number of pressure sensors on the first
streamer.   Thus, the second streamer may be relatively simple and inexpensive in
comparison with the first streamer. Flow proceeds to block 730.
[0056] At block 730, geophysical data is produced that is usable to modify a low
frequency range of a particle motion signal measured by one or more of the plurality of
particle motion sensors. In this embodiment, the geophysical data is usable to modify the
low-frequency range using particle motion information estimated based on signals
measured by one or more of the plurality of second pressure sensors. Such modification
may be performed using various techniques, including those described above with
reference to Figs. 3-5. Flow ends at block 730.
[0057] In some embodiments, the method of Fig. 7 may be utilized to generate the
geophysical data obtained in the method of Fig. 6.
Inversion Techniques Using Streamers at Different Depths
                                            21

[0058] In one embodiment, both shallow and the deep streamers are multi-component
streamers, e.g., having both pressure particle motion sensors.       In this embodiment,
separated wavefields based on sensor data at different depths should typically be the
same.    Thus, in this embodiment, the wave separation may be performed using an
inversion. Typically, the parameter that is normally unknown in wave separation
equations is the horizontal wave number in the cross-line direction, k, (e.g., due to the
poor spatial sampling of receivers in the cross-line direction with towed streamer
seismic). Before performing the inversion, equations for one or both of the deep and
shallow streamers may be transformed so that the equations represent the same datum
level. For example, in one embodiment with a shallower streamer and a deeper streamer,
the up-going pressure wavefield from the shallower multi-component streamer, at a
datum level zd, may be described as:
                                        - - i. ~F                                 (11
Similarly, the up-going pressure wavefield from the deeper multi-component streamer, at
the same datum level zd, may be described as:
                        ___   __     __       _ V -- -i(7 k  (z2-Zd)
                  1P~     r.71)  -~_      -  k
                                         :t Y                                     (12)
In equations (11) and (12), the subscripts 1 and 2 (e.g., as used in Pi andVi ) refer to a
shallower and a deeper streamer respectively.
[0059] In one embodiment, performing an inversion involves reconciling equations (11)
and (12) such thatnja andPua are the roughly equivalent. In some embodiments, this
involves determining a cross-line horizontal wavenumber parameter that best reconciles
the two equations.     In embodiments in which two wave separation equations are
associated with the same datum level, reconciling the two equations involves finding a
                                                  22

parameter such that the equations give substantially the same result. Because, in various
embodiments, the sensors on different streamers are detecting the same wavefields at
different locations, wave separation equations using data from different streamers should
generate approximately the same results, which may allow the inversion analysis to
determine the cross-line horizontal wave number parameter.             Once the cross-line
horizontal wave number is determined, it may be used in equation (11) and/or (12) to
determine the up-going pressure wavefield and/or up-going particle velocity wavefield.
In other embodiments, similar inversions may be performed using other types of wave
separation equations, the present disclosure is not limited to the particular equations (11)
and (12).
[0060] This embodiment may provide an efficient technique for determining cross-line
wave number for use in separating up-going and down-going wavefields.               In other
embodiments, other parameters may be solved for by reconciling wave separation
equations. Such parameters may include water velocity or a check for sensor calibration
errors (which may lead to differences between the two equations).
[0061] In some embodiments, a computing system, also referred to as a geophysical data
processing system, may be configured to perform various techniques described with
reference to Figs. 2-6 in combinations with these inversion techniques. For example, in
one embodiment, V21 in equation (11)        is replaced with a rebuilt particle velocity
wavefield (e.g., generated using equation 10) in which low-frequency particle velocity
signals are modified using particle velocity information that is estimated based on
pressure signals from the deeper streamer (e.g., P 2).      In other embodiments, V21 in
equation 11 may be replaced with rebuilt particle velocity wavefields generated using
equations (6) and (7), and/or other techniques.    This may result in even greater survey
resolution than embodiments in which an inversion is performed without replacing or
modifying low-frequency portions of particle velocity signals.
[0062] In various embodiments, wave separation models may include various equations
such as equations (11)    and (12).   Speaking generally, determining a parameter that
                                             23

reconciles sets of data in a wave separation model refers to determining a parameter that
gives the most similar results for the two sets of data.
[0063] Referring now to Fig. 8, one embodiment of a method 800 for geophysical data
processing is shown. The method shown in Fig. 8 may be used in conjunction with any
of the computing systems, devices, elements, or components disclosed herein, among
other devices. In various embodiments, some of the method elements shown may be
performed concurrently, in a different order than shown, or may be omitted. Additional
method elements may also be performed as desired. Flow begins at block 810.
[0064] At block 810, geophysical data specific to a geophysical formation is obtained.
The geophysical data may be obtained by conducting a geophysical survey or accessing
data from a geophysical survey, for example. In this embodiment, the geophysical data is
representative of:
     e  a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first pressure
        signal, each recorded using sensors towed at a first depth, and
     e  a second set of data representative of a second particle motion signal and a second
        pressure signal, each recorded using sensors towed at a second, greater depth
Flow proceeds to block 820.
[0065] At block 820, first and second wave separation equations are generated from the
first and second sets of data. This may include setting parameter values for the first and
second wave separation equations based on the first and second sets of data. The first
and second sets of data may each include a cross-line waver number parameter, which
may be difficult to determine using data from one or more streamers at a same given
depth. Flow proceeds to block 830.
[0066] At block 830, a cross-line wave number value that reconciles the first and second
wave separation equations is determined. In some embodiments, the cross-line wave
number value may be used in the first and second wave separation equations to separate
measured up-going and down-going wavefields.                   As discussed above, in some
                                                24

embodiments, a redatuming of one or more of the wavefields may be needed in order to
compare and reconcile the wavefields. Flow ends at block 830.
[0067] In some embodiments, a geophysical data product may be produced.                The
geophysical data product may include processed geophysical data and may be stored on a
non-transitory, tangible computer-readable medium. The geophysical data product may
be produced offshore (i.e. by equipment on a survey vessel) or onshore (i.e. at a facility
on land) either within the United States or in another country. If the geophysical data
product is produced offshore or in another country, it may be imported onshore to a
facility in the United States. Once onshore in the United States, geophysical analysis
may be performed on the data product.
[0068] Although specific embodiments have been described above, these embodiments
are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure, even where only a single
embodiment is described with respect to a particular feature.        Examples of features
provided in the disclosure are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive unless
stated otherwise.      The above description is intended to cover such alternatives,
modifications, and equivalents as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art having
the benefit of this disclosure.
[0069] The scope of the present disclosure includes any feature or combination of
features disclosed herein (either explicitly or implicitly), or any generalization thereof,
whether or not it mitigates any or all of the problems addressed herein. Accordingly, new
claims may be formulated during prosecution of this application (or an application
claiming priority thereto) to any such combination of features.         In particular, with
reference to the appended claims, features from dependent claims may be combined with
those of the independent claims and features from respective independent claims may be
combined in any appropriate manner and not merely in the specific combinations
enumerated in the appended claims.
                                              25

[0070] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will
be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0071] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavor to which this specification relates.
                                               26

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A method of geophysical data processing, comprising:
        obtaining, at a geophysical data processing system, geophysical data specific to a
                geophysical formation, wherein the geophysical data includes:
                a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                         pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the
                         first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                         towed at a first depth; and
                a second set of data representative of a second particle motion signal and a
                         second pressure signal, wherein the second particle motion signal
                         and the second pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical
                         sensors towed at a second, greater depth;
        generating, by the geophysical data processing system, information corresponding
                to first and second wave separation equations from the first and second
                sets of data respectively, wherein the first and second wave separation
                equations each include a cross-line wave number parameter;
        determining, by the geophysical data processing system, a cross-line wave
                number value for the cross-line wave number parameter based on a
                corresponding difference in results between up-going pressure wavefields
                for the first and second equations;
        processing the geophysical data to determine an up-going wavefield using the
                determined cross-line wave number value; and
        generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined up
                going wavefield.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the cross-line wave number
value involves an inversion and minimizes the difference in results.
                                                27

3.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        separating up-going and down-going particle motion and pressure wavefields
using the determined cross-line wave number.
4.      The method of claim 1, wherein one or both of the first and second wave
separation equations include a transform to a particular datum level.
5.      The method of claim 1, further comprising transforming one or both of the first
and second wave separation equations such that the equations correspond to a same
datum level.
6.      The method of claim 1, further comprising removing low-frequency particle
motion signals from the first set of data.
7.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        modifying a low-frequency range of one or both of the first and second particle
motion signals using particle motion information estimated based on one or both of the
first and second pressure signals; and
        using the modified one or both of the first and second particle motion signals in
one or both of the first and second wave separation equations.
8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the first depth is at most 30 meters.
9.      The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining geophysical data comprises at least one
of conducting a geophysical survey or accessing data from a single geophysical survey.
10.     The method of claim 1, further comprising producing a model of at least a portion
of the geophysical formation.
                                             28

11.      A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored
thereon that are executable by a computing device to perform operations comprising:
         obtaining geophysical data from a geophysical formation, wherein the
                 geophysical data includes:
                 a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                          pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the
                          first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                          towed at a first depth; and
                 a second set of data representative of a second particle velocity signal and
                          a second pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal
                          and the first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical
                          sensors towed at a second, greater depth;
         generating a wave separation model that includes a cross-line wave number
                 parameter; and
         determining a cross-line wave number value for the cross-line wave number
                 parameter based on a corresponding difference in results between up
                 going pressure wavefields for the first and second sets of data; and
         generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined cross
                 line wave number parameter.
12.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the
operations further comprise separating up-going and down-going particle motion
wavefields using the determined cross-line wave number.
13.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, further
comprising transforming one or both of the first and second sets of data to a particular
datum level.
14.      The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the
operations further comprise removing low-frequency particle motion signals from the
first set of data.
                                                 29

15.     The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the
wave separation model includes a first wave separation equation for the first set of data
and a second wave separation equation for the second set of data, wherein each of the
first and second wave separation equations includes a cross-line wave number parameter.
16.     The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein
obtaining geophysical data comprises at least one of conducting a geophysical survey or
accessing data from a single geophysical survey.
17.     In a technological method of imaging subterranean geological structures that
includes:
        obtaining, at a geophysical data processing system, geophysical data specific to a
                geophysical formation, wherein the geophysical data includes:
                a first set of data representative of a first particle motion signal and a first
                         pressure signal, wherein the first particle motion signal and the
                         first pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical sensors
                         towed at a first depth; and
                a second set of data representative of a second particle motion signal and a
                         second pressure signal, wherein the second particle motion signal
                         and the second pressure signal are each recorded using geophysical
                         sensors towed at a second, greater depth;
        the specific improvement comprising:
                generating, by the geophysical data processing system, information
                         corresponding to first and second wave separation equations from
                         the first and second sets of data respectively, wherein the first and
                         second wave separation equations each include a cross-line wave
                         number parameter;
                determining, by the geophysical data processing system, a cross-line wave
                         number value for the cross-line wave number parameter that
                         minimizes a difference between an up-going pressure field for the
                                                30

                       first equation and an up-going pressure field for the second
                       equation; and
               generating an image of the geophysical formation based on the determined
                       cross-line wave number value, thereby providing increased
                       resolution for the image.
18.      The method of claim 17, wherein the determining minimizes the difference in
results.
                                             31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
