ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        A system for synchronizing and integrating the reservation data, order data, and e
commerce data, gift card data, and/or loyalty points data residing in a POS device with that of a
merchant's website and synchronizing data residing in a website database to the POS device is
disclosed. The system includes a POS device to host a POS application, the POS application
having a POS database layer, and a web server to host a website application, the website
application including a website database layer.    The web server hosts a publically accessible
website and the website application processes data inputs in the website into the website database
layer, and the POS application communicates with the website application to harmonize the
website database layer and the POS database layer via Internet protocols.      The system can be
used to integrate a restaurant or other merchant's POS reservation, ordering, and e-commerce
systems with those provided via the website.

                       WEB INTEGRATED POINT-OF-SALE SYSTEM
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[00001      The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, filed 29 January 2016, which is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2011368727, filed on 20 May 2011, titled "Web integrated point-of-sale
system", all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
COPYRIGHT NOTIFICATION
[00011      This application includes material which is subject to copyright protection. The
copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent
disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office files or records, but otherwise
reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
BACKGROUND
1. Technical Field
[00021      The present disclosure relates to point-of-sale (POS) systems, and more particularly,
to a system synchronizing a point-of-sale system to a website for reservations, order placement
and electronic commerce.
2. Description of the Related Art
[00031      More and more restaurants are allowing customers to schedule reservations online
over the Internet.   For example, a website may allow a user to look up available times at a
particular restaurant and then enter sufficient information in order to reserve an available time.
However, most of these websites operate as stand-alone software applications separate from the
restaurant's day-to-day equipment and computer systems.         The website collects a potential
customer's appointment request and transmits it to a restaurant, usually by email, where it has to
be entered into the restaurants own reservation system. The restaurant must verify the accuracy
of the information and confirm time availability before a confirmation is provided to the potential
customer. The potential customer is thus denied a real-time confirmation, and the whole method
is somewhat cumbersome, inefficient, and prone to errors.
                                                  1

100041      Some overcome these difficulties by consolidating all of the restaurant's reservation
system online. For example, when the online reservation website is run by a 3", party (the
website operator), the website operator may also host a reservation management process service.
Then, instead of the restaurant maintaining its own reservation system and inputting data
transmitted from the website, the reservation system is hosted online and both the customer and
the restaurant access it via the internet. This allows a potential customer real-time access to the
restaurant's availability and almost instantaneous reservation confirmations.      However, this also
removes the reservation system from the restaurant's control and creates loss of revenue risks
when there are outages. The restaurant has to log on or otherwise engage the website operator's
reservation system to manage this aspect of its own business.              In addition, these online
reservation systems are often proprietary, and the website operator imposes fees to the restaurant
every time a potential customer makes a reservation through the system.
10005]      Moreover, this type of 3'd party setup raises privacy concerns. The website operator
usually requires a potential customer to register with its website in order to make a reservation,
gathering as much information from the potential client as it can. The website operator also
tracks the potential customer's dinning history, spending habits, and emails exchanged between
the customer and the website. The website operator may then share this data with others, and
may use it to market other products to the customer.
10006] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these
matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to
the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
SUMMARY
10007] Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.
10008]      The present disclosure provides a system for synchronizing and integrating the
reservation data, order data, and e-commerce data, gift card data, and/or loyalty points data
residing in a POS device with that of a merchant's website and synchronizing data residing in a
website database to the POS device. Using the system, a customer can, for example, make a
                                                   2

reservation at a restaurant on the restaurant's website and see the available time slots in real time.
Likewise, an employee of a merchant such as a restaurant may use their wireless smart phone or
PDA to view and modify reservation data, order data, item stock data, e-commerce data, and
other data types residing in the POS device in real time by connecting the handheld device to the
website using the browser of the phone/PDA. Changes to such data made directly at the POS
device can also be synchronized to the website in real time. These and other aspects and utilities
of the present general inventive concept may be achieved by providing a web-integrated Point
Of-Sale (POS) reservation system, including a POS device to host a POS application, the POS
application including a POS database layer, and a web server to host a website application, the
website application comprising a website database layer, wherein the web server hosts a
publically accessible website and the website application processes data inputs in the website into
the website database layer, and wherein the POS application communicates with the website
application to harmonize the website database layer and the POS database layer via Internet
protocols. The data inputs in the website may include at least one of a customer's information, a
reservation request, the customer's gift card number, the customer's loyalty points number, a
food purchase order, and an e-commerce transaction. The POS database layer may include at
least one of data regarding available times for reservation, loyalty point information for a
customer, pending food purchase orders, e-commerce inventories, and price data.
10009] In one aspect there is provided a web integrated Point-Of-Sale (POS) system, comprising:
a POS device hosting a POS application, the POS application comprising a POS database layer,
wherein the POS database layer contains a first type of data; and a web server hosting a website
application, the website application comprising a website database layer, wherein the website
database layer contains a second type of data; wherein the POS application communicates with
the website application thereby harmonizing the second type of data in the website database layer
and the first type of data in the POS database layer.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10010]      These and/or other aspects and advantages of the present general inventive concept
will become apparent and more readily appreciated from the following description of the
embodiments, taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings of which:
10011]      FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating software and hardware architecture for applications
hosted in a POS device and a web server.
                                                  3

100121      FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating the harmonization of information between applications
in a web server and a POS device.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
10013]      Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present general
inventive concept, examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein like
reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below
in order to explain the present general inventive concept by referring to the figures.
10014]      FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating hardware and software architecture for applications
hosted in the Point-Of-Sale (POS) device 10 and the web server 30.           The present disclosure
provides two major modules, the POS desktop application 100 and website application 300.
There are some common functions between these two modules, including Make Reservation,
Purchase Gift Card, Make Takeout / Delivery order. The present disclosure provides a means to
integrate and harmonize between POS device 10 and the website 30. This integration ensures
that the two modules can work in a consistent manner.
10015]      As illustrated in FIG. 1, the system may include a POS device 10 communicating
through Internet protocols 20 with a website server 30. A POS or check out is the location where
a transaction occurs.    Usually this is the location where a customer pays for the goods and
services provided. In the context of a restaurant, the POS is where the customer checks in with
the hostess, food orders are entered, and payment is processed.
10016]      A POS device comprises a combination of computer hardware, software, and
peripherals used to process the restaurants business transactions.       The POS device 10 may
include one or more computers, a Bar Code Reader (BCR), magnetic stripe reader, or other type
of POS indicia scanner for taking credit or debit payments from a customer, an operator display, a
customer display, and one or more data entry devices. The POS device 10 can include a wireless
device such as a tablet computer (e.g., an iPad or the like), a handheld PDA, a smartphone, or the
like, which may be carried with a waiter/waitress and used at the table. In such embodiments, the
wireless device would typically be in wireless communication with a conventional server and/or
other conventional POS hardware. The POS device 10 can be used to place food orders, manage
reservations, and process payments. Depending on the restaurant's setup, the POS device can
include various types of equipment and peripherals.        For example, the POS device 10 may
include a touch screen terminal for data entry, wireless handheld devices to process credit cards
and other payment cards, and may be used in conjunction with wireless smart phones, PDAs, and
                                                   4

electronic signature capture devices. The POS device 10 may be used to print guest checks, print
orders to the kitchen or bar for preparation, process credit cards and other payment cards, and run
reports.
10017]      A merchant's website is typically a collection of related pages, images, and digital
content hosted on at least one web server.       The website is accessible to the public over the
internet using internet protocols such as HyperText Transfer Protocols.
10018]      The web server 30 resides in a computer system separate from the POS device 10,
may be geographically distant from the point-of-sale, may be a collection of virtualized servers,
and may be at a distinct location or in the cloud. The web server 30 hosts a publically accessible
website for the restaurant.
10019]      Depending on the restaurant's requirements, different software is loaded on the POS
device 10 to manage the desired functionality and peripherals.         For the management of the
restaurant's web integrated reservation system, two synchronizing applications are loaded into
the POS device 10 and a web server 30.
10020]      With continued reference to FIG. 1, a POS application 100 may include a database
layer 101, a data access layer 102, a control and user interface 103, and a communication layer
104.    The control and user interface 103 may include a business layer 105 and a presentation
layer 106.
10021]      The database layer 101 contains the restaurant's reservation data, including all
available times, tables, size of tables, and other reservation-related information. The database
layer 101 may also contain information regarding other associated transactions such as reward
points associated with a customer, pickup/delivery orders, and payment information.            The
database layer 101 may be, e.g., a relational database such as Microsoft SQL server, Oracle, or
MySQL. Inventory (item) data, pickup/delivery data, gift card data, loyalty points data, and
customer information are also stored in the database of database layer 101.
10022]      The following events may cause the database of database layer 101 to be modified:
the purchase of an item at the POS or an e-commerce transaction via the website by a customer; a
reservation being placed via the website by a customer; an order for pickup or delivery being
placed via the website or via phone-in by the customer to the POS; or the purchase of a gift card
at the POS or at the website by a customer. For example, where a customer pays via the POS
system for purchase of food at the restaurant, the POS system stores the transaction in the
database of database layer 101 through the data access layer 102, and sends the data to the web
server 30 via communication layer 104 and the internet using XML Web service communication
                                                  5

protocol 20 after formatting the transaction data. Once the website application 300 receives the
data and stores the data for subtracting inventory quantity, real time inventory management can
be performed.
10023]       Business logic is provided in the business layer 105, and includes inventory (item)
management, listing items for a customer's order, shopping cart and payment processing,
reservation and payment processing, pickup/delivery, gift card issuing and reloading, and
customer management for loyalty programs.
10024]      With respect to gift card issuing and reloading functionality, and loyalty point
program functionality, the embodiments taught herein may be combined with the teachings of
U.S. Patent Application No. 13/106,572 filed May 12, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference.     In the present application, a loyalty point conversion table
similar to that taught in Application No. 13/106,572 may be utilized as follows. Both the POS
device 10 and the web server 30 can use a loyalty point conversion table residing in the database
of either database layer 101 or the database layer 301 to convert a customer's loyalty points to
either a monetary value or a goods/services value. For example, a customer making a reservation
via a restaurant's web site can be allowed to use loyalty points to make a reservation that he
would not otherwise be able to make or that he would otherwise be charged a monetary value for.
Loyalty points can likewise be charged for priority reservations, and higher numbers of loyalty
points can be used to obtain a higher priority or otherwise better reservation.
10025]      The communication layer 104 controls communication between the POS website
application 100 and the web server website application 300. The POS device 10 and the web
server 30 communicate through the Internet using Internet Protocols such as XML Web Service
and REST protocols.
10026]      As illustrated in FIG. 1, a web server website application 300 may include a database
layer 301, a data access layer 302, a control and user interface 303, and a communication layer
304. The control and user interface 303 may include a business layer 305 and a presentation
layer 306.
10027]      The database of database layer 301 contains up-to-date information regarding
available reservation times, and is updated with the customer's reservation information input
through the website. The database includes all requested times, party names, and other relevant
reservation information.     The database of database layer 301 may also contain information
regarding other associated transactions such as reward account number, pickup/delivery orders,
and payment information.        The database of database layer 301 may comprise a relational
                                                  6

database such as Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, or MySQL. Inventory (item) data, Reservation,
Pickup/Delivery, Gift card, and Customer information are stored in the database.
10028]        The data access layer 302 provides data access services to the database layer 301 for
downstream communication and to business layer 305 for upstream communication. The control
and user interface 303 defines the website hosted by the web server 30.         The control and user
interface 303 contains all the necessary web pages and interfaces to receive customer inputs and
transmit the same to the database layer 301.              The communication layer 304 controls
communication between the web server website application 300 and the POS website application
100 using Internet protocols. The communication layer 304 facilitates communications between
the disparate Web Server 30 and the POS Device 10 using communication protocols such as
XML Web Services and REST. Both the communications layer 304 and the communications
layer 104 secure the data using encryption/decryption technology throughout the communication
paths.
10029]        A customer who has created an account and logged in to the website, rather than using
the website as a non-logged-in guest, can be given additional benefits. For example, users who
have logged in can be provided with loyalty points for making a reservation or may be able to
make a reservation or place an order using loyalty points.
10030]        FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating the harmonization of information between applications
in the web server and in the POS device. As was shown in FIG. 1, the website application 300
uses the communication layer 304 to communicate with the communication layer 104 of the POS
application 100. Communication between the website application 300 and the POS application
100 allows for real-time harmonization of the database layer 101 and database layer 301.        That
is, as illustrated in FIG. 2, a customer's online reservation through the website application 300 is
entered into the database layer 301.         Communication with the POS website application 100
allows integration of this information into the restaurant's reservation database residing in the
database layer 101 and updating of the information regarding available times in the database
layer 301.
100311         A customer's online ordering or e-commerce purchase entered through the website
application 300 is similarly entered into the database layer 301. Communication with the website
application 100 allows integration of this information into the restaurant's reservation database
residing in the database layer 101 and synchronization. Likewise, when a customer makes a
reservation, they can be given the option to pre-pay for their meal. Communication with the
website application 100 allows integration of this information into the restaurant's sales database
                                                     7

so that when the customer is finished with their meal they are shown as paid-in-full rather than
presented with a check to pay.
10032]      With reference to FIG. 2, the flow of data synchronization will now be described.
There are three types of data that need to be synchronized between POS and Website. The first is
data that originates in the POS device and is pushed to the website. For example, menu items.
The second is data that originates in the website and is pushed to the POS. For example, online
transactions. The third is data that can flow in either direction. For example, customer data since
such data can be created on both sides. The flow of these three types of data will now each be
described individually.
100331      With respect to data that originates in the POS device and is pushed to the Website,
the following types of data records need to be pushed: Menu Item Category, Menu Item,
Reservations, Events, and Daily Specials. Except for the reservation records, this data is master
and lookup data, and so most of it does not need to be synchronized immediately. The website
administrative user is provided with a function in an administrative console which he can execute
1-2 times per day. This function operates as follows. First, it retrieves a list of new data records
and a list of updated records from the POS. Next, for each new record, it retrieves the complete
data record and inserts it into the website's database. Finally, for each updated record, it retrieves
the updated data record and updates the website database.
10034]      With respect to data that originates in the website and is pushed to the POS,
reservation and transaction records are the types of data records that fall into this category.
Whenever a customer makes a reservation or places an order (Take Out, Delivery), the website
application connects with the POS to send the data. The website first checks the connection to
POS and, if the connection is down, it displays an alert message that the connection to back
office is down and asks the customer to call a toll free phone number as an alternative. If the
connection is up, the website sends the data to POS. To ensure that there is no data lost once the
payment has been received, the website keeps a local copy of transaction record. Once
synchronization is successful, the transaction data record copy on Website may be deleted. This
data is newly generated data on the website side for reservations and sales transactions/orders,
and should be synchronized immediately.
100351      With respect to bi-directional data that can flow in either direction between the POS
application and the POS website, there is only one data record type in this category, and that is
the customer data record.      Because it can flow in either direction, this data requires special
                                                   8

processing. First, whenever there is a new customer record entered into the system on the POS
side, it is pushed to the website keeping the same Customer ID on Website. Also, whenever there
is a new customer record entered on the website, it is pushed to POS, but the ID itself may
change in accordance with customer data records on the POS side.              To make this happen,
customer data record from the POS side can be pushed once or twice a day by the website
administrator. However, customer data records from the website should be pushed immediately to
the POS. If there is a change in customer ID on the POS side, the website will receive the new
customer ID so that it can update its record.
10036]       Because the two modules, the POS application and the Website, are typically
developed using two different platforms, for example .NET/C#/MySQL and PHP/Zend/MySQL,
respectively, the integration should be based on industry standards such as SOAP-based Web
Services.     There may be more than 50 web service based interfaces that are used for this
integration in such embodiments.        These web services are defined in .NET 4.0 using C++
language and deployed on Microsoft Internet Information Server (IIS). The PHP/Zend web
application creates proxies for these Web Service interfaces.
10037]       With respect to security, each web service based integration can use basic
authentication via username and password requirements. A special "system user account" may be
created at the store level, and this can be maintained in a store settings function in the POS. Only
those requests that provide credentials for this system user account will be processed.
100381       The embodiments of the present disclosure can be written as computer programs and
can be implemented in general-use digital computers that execute the programs using a computer
readable recording medium.        Examples of the computer readable recording medium include
magnetic storage media (e.g., ROM, floppy disks, hard disks, etc.), optical recording media (e.g.,
CD-ROMs, or DVDs), and storage media such as carrier waves (e.g., transmission through the
Internet).
100391       Although a few embodiments of the present general inventive concept have been
shown and described, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made
in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the general inventive
concept, the scope of which is defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.
                                                  9

CLAIMS
         1.     A web integrated Point-Of-Sale (POS) system, comprising:
         a POS device hosting a POS application, the POS application comprising a POS database
layer, wherein the POS database layer contains a first type of data; and
         a web server hosting a website application, the website application comprising a website
database layer, wherein the website database layer contains a second type of data;
         wherein the POS application communicates with the website application thereby
harmonizing the second type of data in the website database layer and the first type of data in the
POS database layer.
         2.     The web integrated POS system of claim 1, wherein:
         the harmonizing comprises modifying the second type of data with a website event
datum,
         the website event datum is of the second type of data,
         a POS event datum causes the modifying,
         the POS event datum is of the first type of data, and
         the website event datum is different to the POS event datum.
         3.     The web integrated POS of claim 2 wherein the POS event datum comprises
master data for a lookup table.
         4.     The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
POS device further comprises a wireless handheld device in communication with the web server.
         5.     The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
communication initiated by the POS application occurs less frequently than communication
initiated by the website application.
         6.     The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
communication initiated by the POS application occurs at timed intervals, and communication
initiated by the website application is event-driven.
         7.     The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
                                                   10

communication initiated by the website application occurs in real time.
        8.      The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
system is configured to synchronize portions of data in real time and other portions of data in
non-real time.
        9.      The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
POS device comprises a business layer for conducting inventory management,
        wherein the inventory management comprises harmonizing purchase data in the POS
database layer with inventory data in the website database layer.
        10.     The web integrated POS system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
web server and the POS device are each configured to distinguish between data that originates in
the POS device and is pushed to the website, data that originates in the website and is pushed to a
point of sale, and data that can flow in either direction, and to treat each of the three types of data
differently.
                                                   11

                                                                         1/2
<removed-date>
                 POS DEVICE 10                                                        Web Server 30
               POS Application 100                                                 Website Application 300
<removed-apn>
                 Database Layer                                                        Database Layer
                                     101                                                                   301
                                                                       Internet
                Data Access Layer                                    XML Web          Data Access Layer
                                      102                                                                   302
                                                                    service/REST
                                                                       protocol
                                       Control & User Inter                                                  Control & User Inter
                 Business Layer                                                        Business Layer
                                                                          20
                               105                                                    305
                Presentation Layer                                                    Presentation Layer
         106    (Data Formatting)                                                     (Data Formatting)
                                                              103                                                                   303
                Communication Layer                                                   Communication Layer
                             104                                                                    304
                                                                     FIG. 1

                                                 2/2
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              POS Website                                                     POS Application
                              Master Data Synchronization
                Online          -Customers                                     Customers
                                -Menus                                        Loyalty Points
              Reservation       -Events
                                                                              Menu Events
                            Real Time Reservation Availability
                Online
               Ordering                                                           POS
                              Real Time Ordering                               Reservation
                                -Delivery
              E-Commerce        -Takeout                                         Payment
                             Online e-Commerce
                              -Purchase Gift Cards
                              -Order Payment Processing
                              -Integration with 3rd Party Payment Processor
                                             FIG. 2

