ABSTRACT
       Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems,
comprising:
       a plurality of programmable single space parking meters each having a
hardened shell;
       a vehicle detection sensor configured to detect presence of a vehicle in a
vehicle space;
       multiple low power microprocessors associated with each of the plurality of
programmable single space parking meters capable of waking up to perform a
specialized task;
       an application processor connected to the multiple low power microprocessors
capable of awakening the multiple low power microprocessors, wherein the multiple
low power microprocessors, the application processor and the vehicle detection
sensor are located within the hardened shell;
       a centralized operational controller accessible to parking personnel capable of
monitoring and controlling the plurality of programmable single space parking meters
from a remote location;
       a pass-through radio frequency communication device capable of passing
messages from the centralized operational controller to and from each of the plurality
of programmable single space parking meters by way of the internet; and
a power supply powering the application processor, low power microprocessors and
vehicle detection sensor and comprising a rechargeable battery.

                                                1
                                   GEN I METER SYTEM
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The Gen II Meter system of the invention comprises multiple task specific
   processors such as an Application Processor, a Meter Controller and a Radio
   Processor all controlled via shared SPI bus and using rechargeable batteries and
   solar power sources for controlling and monitoring a vehicle parking meter system.
10
   RELATED ART:
           The U.S. patent application Serial No. 11/802244 entitled: Parking Systems
   Employing RAM Techniques, filed 21 May 2007 and assigned to the same assignee,
   Innovapark, LLC as the present invention.
15
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In accordance with the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for
   controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems, comprising:
           a plurality of programmable single space parking meters each having a
20 hardened shell;
           a vehicle detection sensor configured to detect presence of a vehicle in a
   vehicle space;
           multiple low power microprocessors associated with each of the plurality of
   programmable single space parking meters capable of waking up to perform a
25 specialized task;
           an application processor connected to the multiple low power microprocessors
   capable of awakening the multiple low power microprocessors, wherein the multiple
   low power microprocessors, the application processor and the vehicle detection
   sensor are located within the hardened shell;
30         a centralized operational controller accessible to parking personnel capable of
   monitoring and controlling the plurality of programmable single space parking meters
   from a remote location;

                                                2
           a pass-through radio frequency communication device capable of passing
   messages from the centralized operational controller to and from each of the plurality
   of programmable single space parking meters by way of the internet; and
           a   power      supply powering     the   application   processor,  low   power
 5 microprocessors and vehicle detection sensor and comprising a rechargeable
   battery.
           Preferred features of the apparatus may be as described in claims 2 and 9 of
   the appended claims, such claims being incorporated into this disclosure by cross
10 reference.
           Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in this
   specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers,
   steps or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition
15 of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.
           There is also described herein an apparatus for controlling and monitoring
   vehicle parking meter systems, including:
           a plurality of programmable single space parking meters having variable rates,
20 time limits and/or hours of operation and capable of resetting a time upon vehicle
   departure and other operational parameters;
           multiple low power microprocessors associated with each of the plurality of
   programmable single space parking meters capable of waking up to perform a
   specialized task;
25         an application processor connected through a shared bus to each of the
   multiple low power microprocessors capable of monitoring and controlling changes in
   logic for setting the operational parameters and awakening the multiple low power
   microprocessors;
           a centralized operational controller accessible to parking personnel capable of
30 monitoring and controlling the plurality of programmable single space parking meters
   from a remote location;
           a pass-through radio frequency communication device capable of passing
   messages from the centralized operational controller to and from each of the plurality
   of programmable single space parking meters by way of the internet; and

                                               3
           a power supply powering the application           processor and     low power
   microprocessors and comprising a rechargeable battery receiving a charge from any
   combination of high energy density - low current battery and/or a solar panel
   mounted onto the power supply.
 5         The apparatus may further include a circuitry switch including a magnetic reed
   relay, radio frequency or physical connection switch configured to temporarily
   disconnect the power supply and           initiate a re-start of processes on the
   microprocessors enabling running of pre-scripted commands and/or enabling a
   listening mode to receive the operating parameters.
10         The pass-through communication device preferably operates at either
   900MHz or 2.4GHz and implements a combination of star and mesh network
   topologies.
           The application processor and the multiple low power-microprocessors may
   be permanently potted into an injection molded housing with the power supply being
15 attached outside of the housing.
           Removal of the high energy density - low current battery and/or the solar
   panel mounted onto the power supply may cause each of the plurality of
   programmable single space parking meters to power down after a set time period.
           Each of the plurality of programmable single space parking meters preferably
20 includes a low power electronic display for displaying an information pertaining to a
   vehicle space controlled by the plurality of programmable single space parking meter,
   the low power electronic display receives updated instructions from the application
   processor to update the information to be displayed pertaining to the vehicle space.
           The   pass-through     radio  frequency    communication     device   preferably
25 communicates the operational parameters to the application processor whereby
   changes in logic for the parking meters are effected.
           The application processor preferably has output channels for communication
   with and programmable logic capabilities for connection to and communication with
   multiple makes and models of commercially available single space parking meters.
30         A set of logical rules are preferably employed on the centralized operational
   controller, on the application processor or the low power microprocessors to
   determine an operational status of a vehicle space and allow for an adherence of an
   occupant of a vehicle space being monitored to a parking policy.

                                               4
           The apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
   may further include a vehicle presence sensor connected to at least one of the
   multiple low power microprocessors and the vehicle detection sensor configured to
   detect presence of a vehicle using a vehicle detection methodology that comprises at
 5 least one of an induction, magnetic anomaly, sonar, RADAR, weight detection, or
   vibrational detection sensor to monitor a vehicle space occupancy status.
           The specialized task may include monitoring and communicating regarding a
   vehicle space occupancy, a single space parking meter's payment status and any
   other specialized requirements of the multiple low power microprocessors associated
10 with each of the plurality of programmable single space parking meters to assure
   reliable operation.
   The GEN II Meter System of the invention comprises:
           A method of powering a parking meter and various peripheral devices thereof
15 such as a radio, vehicle detector and digital rate plate or other low power electronic
   display using a high energy density- low current battery to charge a rechargeable
   battery with lesser energy density. Using the above-described system with an
   additional photovoltaic solar panel to supplement the high energy battery or using the
   above system without the high energy battery and only the photovoltaic cell.
20 Alternatively, using any of the foregoing above powering methods in conjunction with
   a non-rechargeable battery or batteries as a backup power source for parking meters
   or its peripherals.
           The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System of the invention is that in
   prior art systems the power consumption limits the features available at a single
25 space parking meter. Battery power can be used to meet the needs, but requires
   excessively frequent replacements of the batteries.        Longer life (higher energy
   density) batteries and power sources exist, but have low current or non-linear output
   than is required by the electronics of the known parking meter system.
           In the GEN II Meter System of the invention, by using a combination of one or
30 more of the high energy density batteries with intermittent current as a means to
   charge higher current/lower density batteries with a "trickle charge" allows long life
   and higher current for powering remote electronics in parking meters.             The
   electronics require power      intermittently with long   periods of low-no power

                                              5
   consumption which allows the high current batteries to recover their charge during
   the low power requirement cycles.
           In the GEN II Meter System of the invention multiple, interconnected
   microprocessors are used as a power saving methodology of parking meter systems
 5 having a plurality of features.
           The problem solved is that power consumption limits the features available at
   a single space parking meter.      Many low power microprocessors exist, but have
   limited capacity to manage operations.
           In the GEN II Meter System using multiple low power microprocessors to
10 perform specialized tasks and only "wake up" for the purpose of performing that
   specialized task allows for the system overall to consume less power without giving
   up processing capacity. Power is not wasted keeping processors "awake" when not
   needed.
           The GEN      II Meter System uses a specialized network topology for
15 applications of radio transmissions between single space parking meters in traditional
   high-impact meter housings and a network operations center.
           The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System is that single space parking
   meters rely on battery power to enable operation of the associated electronics. Radio
   transmissions require relatively high levels of power. Additionally, the thick metal of
20 many hardened single space parking meter housings provide an additional obstacle
   to radio frequency transmissions. Many existing low-power radio systems rely on
   short range transmissions and "mesh" topologies to overcome this limitation. While
   such topology provides the benefit of allowing transmissions to succeed in the
   context of single space parking meters, it has a number of problems.              First,
25 regardless of the redundancy provided by standard mesh topologies, standard paths
   for data flow are established.     These pathways converge for multiple individual
   parking meters as the data flow approaches the endpoint of a network segment.
   Network nodes closest to the segment endpoints experience unordinary higher
   periods of time in active communication with other nodes and consume large
30 amounts of power. Second, mesh networks reach a limitation in the number of nodes
   that can be supported. While pure "star" topologies can solve this problem, they do
   not provide an adequate level of redundancy. Lastly the shorter ranges of the radios
   used in the mesh topologies require a continuous string of radios in order to
   communicate with remote assets.

                                              6
           The GEN II Meter System uses of a Reed Relay or any other type of circuitry
   switch as a method of waking a power-saving radio to trigger the download of
   information from a centralized controller.
           The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System is that a meter node radio as
 5 described above can not be manually forced to initiate a communications sessions
   with the network unless the secure, hardened meter housing is opened.
           The GEN II Meter System can use a reed relay switch on a circuit that
   provides power to an appropriate pin on a microprocessor, the reed relay switch is
   closed when a magnetic object is within adequate proximity to the switch. The closed
10 circuit allows current to flow to the microprocessor prompting it to initiate a
   communications session with the upstream collector. Any other form of switch that
   can likewise be used to physically close the circuit without requiring the meter
   housing to be opened can be substituted for the reed relay described here.
           The GEN II Meter System uses a Radio Frequency Switch as a method of
15 waking a power-saving radio to trigger the download of information from a centralized
   controller.
           The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System is that described for the "use
   of a Reed Relay" in paragraphs [0012] and [0014].
           In the GEN II Meter System the problem is solved by the use of an alternate
20 switch as described above except that a passive Radio Frequency sensitive coil is
   energized by radio waves to close the circuit to power the appropriate pin on the
   microprocessor. The source of the radio waves can be of any sufficient magnitude of
   radio waves directed at the meter including, but not limited to, a handheld device, a
   Radio Frequency wave generator in a collector unit or a passing vehicle.
25         In the GEN II Meter System of the invention a digital reprogrammable display
   allows dynamic display of parking policy information at a single space parking meter
   in a vehicle parking meter system.
           In the GEN II Meter System a universal electronic parking meter interface
   allows a single peripheral device to communicate with any plurality of parking meters
30 including two or more of the following commercially known systems: Duncan Eagle
   2000 and 2010, POM APM, Mackay Guardian or any other parking meter from any
   other manufacturer.
           In the GEN II Meter System a method allows a parking meter to be re
   programmed or re-configured for various rates, time limits or hours of operation and

                                               7
   other operational parameters including, but not limited to enabling the resetting of
   time upon a vehicle departure, enabling software that prevents s user's ability to add
   time to the meter beyond the time limit even if payments are received during multiple
   time frames of the motorists occupancy of the space and granting of free time upon a
 5 vehicle's arrival or the enforcement of different rates being charged for an occupant
   depending on how long they are in the space. Additionally, the Gen II meter system
   incorporates the ability to display changes in operating policy to users by means of a
   low power electronic display as described in paragraph [0018] affixed in the stead of
   a traditional meter's rate plate.
10          A problem of known parking meter systems is that any change in the
   operating parameters of a single space parking meter requires someone to physically
   visit each parking meter. In the GEN II Meter System of the invention the provision of
   a peripheral radio, operational microprocessor and connecting radio network, the
   peripheral radio communicates such changes to the operational microprocessor. The
15 operational microprocessor, in turn, initiates a change in the logic for all the
   connected devices to establish the new operating parameters and updates of the
   displays on both the meter and the low powered electronic display as needed.
            The GEN II Meter System of the invention provides a method that allows a
   merchant to purchase time at a parking meter for a patron by use of a web, cellular or
20 other type of telecommunications medium in which the time purchased may also be
   posted to the meter monitoring the space in which the patron parked their vehicle.
            The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System of the invention is that
   merchants wishing to attract new customers or improve the experience of potential
   customers may want to pay for the parking fees of such customers. In some cases,
25 they may want simply to make a change. In either case, either the merchant or the
   customer must return to the parking meter monitoring the space in which they parked
   and initiate payments.
            In the GEN II Meter System of the invention, by creating a readily available
   interface for a merchant through either a stand-alone device with a web, telecom or
30 other type of network to a secured command and control interface as described in
   U.S.   patent application, Serial No. 11/802244 and entitled;         Parking System
   Employing RAM Parking Techniques, a merchant and/or customer initiates payment
   from a location more conveniently located to the store. This interface will then initiate
   a signal to the meter monitoring the space identified as well as enforcement

                                               8
   personnel that the space is paid for and, display the time purchased on the display of
   the parking meter as appropriate.
            The GEN II Meter System of the invention provides a method to display time
   purchased by any remote payment system to an independent parking meter by use
 5 of a radio frequency network.
           Another problem solved by the GEN II Meter System of the present invention
   is that payments made using systems disconnected from the parking meter
   monitoring the space for which payment is being made requires additional and error
   prone verification by enforcement personnel to avoid writing invalid parking tickets.
10          This problem is dealt with by the GEN II Meter System of the present invention
   by connecting the parking meter to a radio network, time can be posted directly to the
   meter by a centralized command and control interface (CCI).        The CCI is similarly
   connected via any form of networking technology to the payment system including
   but not limited to telephone payment systems, internet payment systems, stand-alone
15 kiosks and Point-of-Sale systems.
            The GEN II Meter System of the invention provides an antenna specifically
   designed to optimize the communications of a radio to a centralized collector radio
   from within a hardened, single space meter housing.
            The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System of the present invention is
20 that hardened meter housings create unique radio frequency propagation and
   reflection properties for any radio contained inside.
            In the GEN II Meter System a specific design for radios deployed in this
   manner can maximize the transmission range and minimize power requirements.
            The GEN II Meter System of the invention provides a space status logic form
25 to monitor and control a parking space and the various assets installed at that space
   as well as record a historical data stream reflecting the usage characteristics of the
   parking space.
            The problem solved by the GEN II Meter System of the present invention is
   that low power microprocessors can not efficiently perform the complex logic needed
30 to capture and respond to all of the various elements of managing a parking space in
   a linear manner.
            In the GEN II Meter System of the present invention by, establishing the
   various elements of the state of a parking meter into various yes/no states and
   creating a matrix of instructions for the microprocessor to execute for the occurrence

                                                9
   of any event in each of the various compilations of those states, the microprocessor
   can more efficiently react to events. Additionally, changes in the programmatic logic
   to be used by the microprocessor require updating only the matrix of instructions but
   not the detailed methods used to perform those instructions.
 5         The Gen II Meter System of the present invention is adaptable to various
   forms of vehicle detection including, but not limited to induction loop, magnetometer,
   ultrasonic and/or doppler radar sensors.       In all cases, the Gen II Meter system is
   most reliable when the components are deployed so as to avoid any interference
   from passing vehicular, pedestrian or other traffic and protected from potential
10 vandalism.
           The problem solved by the Gen II Meter System of the present invention is
   that while inductance loop vehicle detection remains the most reliable form of vehicle
   detection for monitoring the stationary vehicles in a parking space, installation of
   inductance loops may be impractical in certain situations. The use of other sensors
15 has often been impractical by interference for movement and events outside of the
   intended monitoring space of the parking space being monitored. This is due part to
   the placement of monitoring sensors in "line of sight" of the space. If an object is
   placed or moves between the sensor and the space being monitored, detection
   errors can occur. Finally, many other forms of detection have shortcomings in terms
20 of their ability to reliably sense a non-moving vehicle over long periods of time.
           The Gen II Meter System of the present invention's preferred embodiment is
   that of an induction loop placed in the roadbed of the space to be monitored. If the
   preferred embodiment is not possible, a doppler radar sensor placed either in the
   roadbed of the space to be monitored and communicating via the wireless radio
25 interface to the Gen II meter system node can be used.           Both of these methods
   ensure that no interference from objects or events outside the space being monitored
   affect the detection and are able to reliably track the presence of stationary vehicle
   over the long term. The flexibility inherent in this design also allows for the use of
   any of the lesser sensor technologies should the preferred embodiments not be
30 possible or feasible.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 illustrates the basic features of the GEN II Meter System; and

                                              10
           Figure 2 is an example of an antenna specification tuned for operation in a
   Model 95 Zinc-Iron housing for use with a 900 MHz radio.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 5         System Overview
           The GEN II Meter System of the present invention comprises multiple task
   specific processors as shown in the Figure. The system is controlled by the
   Application Processor (AP) and the remaining devices are controlled via a shared
   SPI bus.
10
   Processor Functions
           The AP is a controller for the entire system and its functions include power
   management and monitoring, managing the state of the parking spaces, and
   controlling firmware upgrades.      The Radio (RP) is essentially a pass-through
15 communications device which passes messages from the AP to the collector and
   back.
           The Meter Processor (MP) handles the communications to/from the parking
   meter, and the Vehicle Sensor Processor (VP) located on the circuit board provides
   information to the AP on the status of the sensor loop.
20         The components of the GEN II Meter System are mounted on a circuit board.
           System Power
           The system comprises a LiPo rechargeable battery, 3 AA primary cells and a
   solar panel. The system is powered by the LiPo battery which is recharged by the
25 solar panel.    The AA batteries provide backup power if the voltage on the LiPo
   battery drops due to lack of sunlight in a particular installation location. To enhance
   power efficiency each processor has its own voltage regulator that can be disabled
   by the AP to conserve power.
30         PCB Configuration
           To allow maximum flexibility and the use of either 900MHz or 2.4GHz, the
   radio is designed as a daughter board mounted to the main system circuit board.
   The main sensor circuit board also attaches as a module to the main system board.

                                               11
           Mechanical Configuration
           The entire PCB assembly, including the rechargeable battery, is designed to
   be permanently potted into an injection molded housing. The solar panel and AA
   battery holder are attached to the outside of the housing. Both a pigtail sensor cable
 5 and meter interface cable exit the housing for connection to the sensor loop and
   meter, respectively.
           Power Control
           To prevent the sealed rechargeable battery from being drained prior to
10 installation, the system monitors the presence of the AA batteries.       If no external
   batteries are installed the system remains powered down. Additionally, removal of
   the external batteries causes the system to power down after a set time period.
       Tables 3a-3d - Examples of Stored Programming Event Handler Matrices
15
       This collection of tables is actually an example of a single set of programming
   event handler matrix. This matrix shows along the left hand side the parking state
   the monitored space is in at the time the observed event is registered by the various
   components designed into the Gen || system. The programming on the Application
20 Processor (AP) then cross references both the event and the state currently
   registered for the space for an instruction set to enact various messaging to other
   component of the Gen     || system and/or to initiate communications to be passed up to
   the centralized operational control system. This command set is a representation of
   one such set of instructions that could be compiled for the operation of a Gen         ||
25 system. Additional states, Events and instruction sets could be added or changed to
   alter the operation of the system as policies change or new event types are defined.

                   12
      &
          All
                A,
    j         J           ii
oy
   P.   fl1 Iltl-lm -1I -1f:1

                          13
            IN                    a dIidd
l '.4       A3d            a didi
                             1H1i   L l za
                                    Lual
       fl
           IsIE
                 ~ 5diLiLIEUdiUJd
   -badi:.IEdJd
                1.091ldln
  H

                 14
        MrM
             111
£0i    L h u
    __   __g
                    % 7hi1

                        15
                leA I      I      Li  L
            idt       ddh    Liii    hd11
           1Afd       Ahffd ihii6
4-4
         t    idlhiihJ
       I    a Il 1idd             eihLh
    II 1ha

                                            16
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS;
 1.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems,
comprising:
        a plurality of programmable single space parking meters each having a
hardened shell;
        a vehicle detection sensor configured to detect presence of a vehicle in a
vehicle space;
        multiple low power microprocessors associated with each of the plurality of
programmable single space parking meters capable of waking up to perform a
specialized task;
        an application processor connected to the multiple low power microprocessors
capable of awakening the multiple low power microprocessors, wherein the multiple
low power microprocessors, the application processor and the vehicle detection
sensor are located within the hardened shell;
        a centralized operational controller accessible to parking personnel capable of
monitoring and controlling the plurality of programmable single space parking meters
from a remote location;
        a pass-through radio frequency communication device capable of passing
messages from the centralized operational controller to and from each of the plurality
of programmable single space parking meters by way of the internet; and
        a   power    supply   powering     the     application processor,  low   power
microprocessors and vehicle detection sensor and comprising a rechargeable
battery.
2.      Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, further comprising a circuitry switch comprising a magnetic reed
relay, radio frequency or physical connection switch configured to temporarily
disconnect the power supply and            initiate a re-start of processes on the
microprocessors enabling running of pre-scripted commands and/or enabling a
listening mode to receive the operating parameters.
3.      Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, wherein said pass-through communication device operates at

                                           17
either 900MHz or 2.4GHz and implements a combination of star and mesh network
topologies.
4.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, wherein removal of the high energy density - low current battery
and/or the solar panel mounted onto the power supply causes each of the plurality of
programmable single space parking meters to power down after a set time period.
5.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, wherein the pass-through radio frequency communication
device communicates the operational parameters to the application processor
whereby changes in logic for the parking meters are effected.
6.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, wherein a set of logical rules are employed on the centralized
operational controller, on the application processor or the low power microprocessors
to determine an operational status of a vehicle space and allow for an adherence of
an occupant of a vehicle space being monitored to a parking policy.
7.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, the vehicle detection sensor configured to detect presence of a
vehicle using a vehicle detection methodology that comprises at least one of an
induction, magnetic anomaly, sonar, RADAR, weight detection, or vibrational
detection sensor to monitor a vehicle space occupancy status.
8.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, wherein the specialized task comprises monitoring and
communicating regarding a vehicle space occupancy, a single space parking meter's
payment status and any other specialized requirements of the multiple low power
microprocessors associated with each of the plurality of programmable single space
parking meters to assure reliable operation.
9.     Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle detection sensor is placed in a roadbed of
the vehicle space being monitored.

                                            18
 10.   Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems,
comprising:
        a plurality of programmable single space parking meters for variable rates,
time limits or hours of operation, enabling the resetting of time upon a vehicle
departure and the occurrence of any other operational parameter;
        multiple low power microprocessors associated with each of said plurality of
programmable parking meters for monitoring and initiating changes in the logic for all
the devices monitoring the spaces associated with the parking meter and said
space's occupancy, and monitoring payment and operational statuses;
        a plurality of microprocessors specialized in purpose for any needed
monitoring of and communication regarding the monitored space's occupancy, the
parking meter's payment status, communication to upstream data transmission and
any other specialized requirements of the system to assure reliable operation thereof;
        a master operational microprocessor connected to each of the additional low
power microprocessors for monitoring of and control of any changes in the logic to
establish new operating parameters for said low power microprocessors or
operational status as well as the initiation of message relays to various connected
components - such as but not limited to the communication of vehicle arrivals or
departures, payments accepted by alternative payment mechanisms such as "pay by
cellphone" or "web-based transactions" to the parking meter;
        a centralized operational controller accessible to parking personnel to monitor
and control the space monitoring units from a remote location;
        a pass-through radio frequency communication device for passing messages
from the centralized operational controller to and from each space monitoring unit by
way of the internet with or without the use of secure communications tunnels;
        and
        a power supply comprising a rechargeable battery receiving a charge from
any combination of high energy density - low current battery and/or a solar panel
mounted onto the power supply.
 11.   Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 10, wherein a circuitry switch including but not limited to a
magnetic reed relay, radio frequency or physical connection switch can be used to
temporarily disconnect the power source from the unit and initiate a re-start of the
unit's processes allowing the running of any pre-scripted commands and/or the

                                            19
invocation of a listening mode to receive new operating code or commands without
the need to open the meter housing in which the unit is enclosed.
12.    Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 10, wherein said pass-through communication device operates at
either 900MHz or 2.4GHz and implements a combination of star and mesh network
topologies between individual pass through communication devices and space
monitoring units to allow for maximum power savings across the population of space
monitoring units
       and
       uses the antenna specifically designed for the optimal operation of its
operational frequency and the need to communicate from within a hardened meter
housing.
13.    Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 10, wherein the system is permanently potted into an injection
molded housing with the power supply being attached to the outside of the housing.
14.    Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 10, wherein in the event no external batteries are installed the
system remains powered down and removal of the external batteries causes the
system to power down after a set time period.
15.    Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 10, wherein each of said parking meters includes a low power
electronic display for displaying information pertaining to the vehicle space controlled
by the parking meter which can receive updated instructions from said master
operational microprocessor to update the information to be displayed regarding the
space in question.
16.    Apparatus for controlling and monitoring vehicle parking meter systems
according to claim 10, wherein the radio communicates operational system changes
to the operational system controller whereby changes in the logic for all the parking
meters can be effected.

                                          20
17.     A design of the space monitoring unit according to claim 10, wherein the
processor embedded on the unit has appropriate output channels for communication
with and programmable logic capabilities for connection to and communication with
multiple makes and models of commercially available single space parking meters.
18.     A programmable logic set for the Space Monitoring Unit according to claim 10,
wherein a set of logical rules can be employed to determine the operational status of
a given space and allow for the adherence of any given occupant of the space being
monitored in a flexible manner such that any unit can be deployed for any type of
parking control scenario established by parking policy makers.
19.     A space Monitoring Unit according to claim 10, wherein any type of vehicle
detection methodology including but not limited to induction, magnetic anomaly,
sonar, RADAR, weight detection, vibrational detection sensors can equally be used
to monitor the space's occupancy status.
                                 INNOVAPARK, LLC
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P32895AU03

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
