                                                ABSTRACT
   The invention is directed to a method for detecting the presence of a biomarker. The method
   comprises providing a device comprising (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes, (b)
   a plurality of electronic sensors integrated or assembled on said substrate and connected to said
 5 electrodes, and (c) a microfluidic component disposed on said substrate and adapted to
   communicate fluidically with said electronic sensors; and introducing a biological sample to said
   microfluidic component. The microfluidic component directs the flow of said biological sample
   to contact at least one of said electronic sensors. The presence of the biomarker results in a signal
   change at said at least one of said electronic sensors. The method further comprises establishing
10 a first reference point for the quantification of said biomarker in said biological sample, said first
   reference point being a first signal change resulting from contacting said at least one of said
   electronic sensors with a first reference solution comprising a first lower concentration of said
   biomarker than said biological sample; and establishing a second reference point for the
   quantification of said biomarker in said biological sample, said second reference point being a
15 second signal change resulting from contacting said at least one of said electronic sensors with a
   second reference solution comprising a second lower concentration of said biomarker than said
   biological sample.

          BIOMOLECULAR DETECTION TEST STRIP DESIGN
                  CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[001]       The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent
   Application No. 2013296563, the entire contents of which is incorporated herein by
   reference.
[002]       This application also claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No.
   61/677,368 filed July 30, 2012, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                       BACKGROUND
[003]       Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a lab-based in vitro diagnostic
   (IVD) tool and the clinical gold standard that detects the presence of target proteins, such
   as antigens or antibodies, in bio-specimens. This detection method can provide either a
   quantitative or qualitative result. This method is highly sensitive but requires significant
   capital equipment and a trained technician to operate as it typically requires multiple
   processing steps. ELISA is thus not portable and takes significant time to generate a
   result. These limitations collectively urge for new IVD technologies that permit cheaper,
   more frequent and more sensitive diagnostics to improve the clinical diagnostics cost
   effectiveness and therapeutic outcomes.
                                           SUMMARY
[004]       According to an aspect of the invention, there is provided a device, comprising:
   (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes; (b) a plurality of electronic sensors
   integrated or assembled on said substrate and connected to said electrodes; and (c) a
   microfluidic component disposed on said substrate and adapted to communicate
   fluidically with said electronic sensors, wherein said microfluidic component comprises
   (i) at least one buffer reservoir, (ii) at least one sensing arm connected to said at least one
   buffer reservoir, and (iii) at least one control arm connected to said at least one buffer
                                                -1-

    reservoir, said sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir and a sample sensing region
    adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said electronic sensors, said
    control arm comprises a control sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with
    at least one of said electronic sensors, wherein said microfluidic component is adapted to
    direct a flow of a biological sample introduced into said sample reservoir to the sample
    sensing region, and said biological sample is not introduced into said control arm.
[005]        There is also disclosed herein, a Semiconductor Electronic Label-Free Assay
    (SELFA) test strip device for biomolecular detection, comprising: (a) a substrate
    comprising a plurality of electrodes; (b) a plurality of electronic sensors, such as field
    effect transistor (FET) sensors or nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors,
    integrated or assembled on the substrate and connected to the electrodes; and (c) a
    microfluidic component disposed on the substrate and adapted to communicate fluidically
    with the electronic sensors.
[006]        In one embodiment, the microfluidic component comprises a sensing arm. In one
    embodiment, the microfluidic component further comprises a buffer reservoir upstream
    of the sensing arm. In one embodiment, the sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir, a
    sample filtration module downstream of the sample reservoir, and a sample sensing
    region downstream of the sample filtration module. The sample sensing region can be
    adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of the electronic sensors.
[007]        In one embodiment, the microfluidic component further comprises a control arm.
    In one embodiment, the control arm is connected to the same buffer reservoir upstream of
    the sensing arm. In another embodiment, the control arm is connected to a separate
    buffer reservoir. In one embodiment, the control arm comprises an optional control
    reservoir, a control filtration module downstream of the optional control reservoir, and a
    control sensing region downstream of the control filtration module. The control sensing
    region can be adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of the electronic
    sensors.
                                               -2-

[008]        In one embodiment, the buffer reservoir comprises at least one buffer. The buffer
    can have an ionic strength of, for example, less than 200 mM, or less than 100 mM, or
    less than 50 mM, or less than 20 mM. The buffer can be released from the buffer
    reservoir into the sensing arm and/or the control arm to contact the electronic sensor.
[009]        Any filtration module adapted for filtering cells/debris from a biological sample
    can be used as the sample filtration module. In one embodiment, the sample filtration
    module is an inertial filtration module. The inertial filtration module can comprise, for
    example, a channel having a dimension larger than the cells/debris to be filtered. The
    inertial filtration module can comprise, for example, an expanding microchannel. The
    inertial filtration module can comprise, for example, (i) a focusing microchannel having a
    dimension smaller than the upstream channel to provide inertial lift forces, (ii) an
    expanding microchannel downstream of the focusing microchannel for guiding the
    cells/debris subjected to said inertial lift forces along the expanding channel wall, and
    (iii) a collection module downstream of the expanding microchannel for detouring the
    cells/debris into one or more side channels while allowing the rest of the biological
    sample to flow through and enter the sensing region.
[0010]       Any filtration module adapted for filtering cells/debris from a biological sample
    can be used as the control filtration module. In one embodiment, the control filtration
    module is also an inertial filtration module.
[0011]       In one embodiment, the microfluidic component further comprises at least one
    waste reservoir. The waste reservoir can be connected to the sensing arm and/or the
    control arm. One embodiment includes a first waste reservoir downstream of the sample
    sensing region and a second waste reservoir downstream of the control sensing region.
    Another embodiment includes a single waste reservoir downstream of both the sample
    sensing region and the control sensing region.
[0012]       In one embodiment, the microfluidic component further comprises at least one
    reference reservoir. The reference reservoir can be connected to the sensing arm and/or
    the control arm. One embodiment includes a first reference reservoir upstream of the
                                                -3-

   sample sensing region and a second reference reservoir upstream of the control sensing
   region. Another embodiment includes a single reference reservoir upstream of both the
   sample sensing region and the control sensing region. The reference reservoir can be, for
   example, placed downstream of the filtration module of the sensing arm and/or the
   control arm. The reference reservoir can comprise, for example, at least one reference
   solution of known concentration.
[0013]      In one embodiment, the microfluidic component further comprises a capillary
   pump.
[0014]      In one embodiment, the substrate of the test strip device comprises at least one
   polymer material. In another embodiment, the substrate comprises at least one
   semiconductor material.
[0015]      In one embodiment, at least one of the electronic sensors is integrated on the
   substrate. In another embodiment, at least one of the electronic sensors is part of a chip
   assembled on the substrate. The test strip device can comprise at least 2, at least 4, at
   least 6, at least 12, or at least 48 electronic sensors integrated or assembled on the
   substrate.
[0016]      In one embodiment, the test strip device further comprises a passivation layer atop
   the substrate and the electronic sensors disposed thereon and underneath the microfluidic
   channel. The passivation layer may expose only the sensing nanowire regions inside and
   electrical pads at the edges.
[0017]      In one embodiment, at least one of the electronic sensors is an nwFET sensor that
   comprises a T-shaped structure comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a
   longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to the latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier. The
   latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier can have a first end connected to a source electrode
   and a second end connected to a drain electrode. The longitudinal sensing nanowire can
   have a first end connected to the latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier to form a node and a
   second end connected to a base electrode.
                                                -4-

[0018]     In one embodiment, the first end of the sensing nanowire is connected to the
   nanowire FET amplifier at an angle between about 100 and 1700, 400 and 1400, or 700
   and 1100 to form the node. The angle between the sensing wire and the nanowire FET
   amplifier can be about, less than about or greater than about 100, 400, 700, 800, 900, 1100,
    1400, or 1700. In another embodiment, the sensing nanowire is substantially orthogonal
   to the nanowire FET amplifier. In one embodiment, the sensing nanowire and the
   nanowire FET amplifier form an acute or obtuse angle. The angle referenced herein can
   be one of two angles formed between the sensing nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier.
   The two angles may be supplementary, such that the sum of the first and second angle is
    1800. Alternatively, the two angles may not be supplementary. The two angles can be
   equal or unequal. For example, both angles can be about 450, or one angle can be about
   450 and the other can be about 900.
[0019]     In one embodiment, the sensing nanowire and the nanowire FET amplifier have
   about the same dimensions. In another embodiment, the width of the sensing nanowire
   and the nanowire FET amplifier are independently each within the range of about 10 nm
   to about 3000 nm, or within the range of about 50 nm to about 1000 nm, or within the
   range of about 100 nm to about 500 nm.
[0020]     In one embodiment, the nwFET sensor further comprises a second sensing
   nanowire having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the second sensing
   nanowire is connected to the nanowire FET amplifier to form a node, and the second end
   of the second sensing nanowire is connected to a second base electrode. In one
   embodiment, the first sensing nanowire and the second sensing nanowire are connected
   to the nanowire FET amplifier at the same node.
[0021]     In one embodiment, the nwFET sensor further comprises a third sensing nanowire
   having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the third sensing nanowire is
   connected to the nanowire FET amplifier to form a node, and the second end of the third
   sensing nanowire is connected to a third base electrode.
                                            -5-

[0022]     In one embodiment, the nwFET sensor can be shielded from the ambience via
   passivation, except for the sensing nanowire surfaces and optionally the surfaces of and
   near the node connecting the sensing nanowire and the nanowire FET amplifier.
[0023]     In one embodiment, the sensing nanowire surface, and optionally the surface of
   and near the node connecting the said sensing nanowire and the nanowire FET amplifier,
   is derivatized with a plurality of immobilized receptors. The immobilized receptors can
   comprise free amino groups, free carboxyl groups, free hydroxyl groups, or a
   combination thereof.
[0024]     In one embodiment, the sensing nanowire surface, and optionally the surface of
   and near the node connecting the said sensing nanowire and the nanowire FET amplifier,
   comprises a receptor immobilized thereon adapted to bind to a biomarker. Any
   biomarkers useful for clinical diagnostic applications can be targeted.
[0025]     In one embodiment, the receptor can bind to a biomarker associated with
   immunomodulation and suppression in bone marrow transplant, such as CD4, CD14,
   CD25, forkhead box protein P3 (FoxP3), granzyme B, inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-B
   kinase subunit beta (IKKp), interferon-alpha (IFN-a), IFN- y, interleukin 2 (IL-2), IL-4,
   IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-17, monocyte chemoattractant protein-I (MCP-1), myeloid
   differentiation primary response gene 88 (MyD88), nuclear factor kappa B (NFKB),
   perforin, TIR-domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon-f3 (TRIF), toll-like receptor
   4 (TLR4), transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-P), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha
   (TNF-a).
[0026]     In another embodiment, the receptor can bind to a biomarker associated with
   innate immunity in allorejection of bone marrow cells, such as FoxP3, heat shock protein
   (HSP), high-mobility group 1 box 1 protein (HMGB1), hyaluronan, Type I IFN, IFN-a,
   IFN-p, IFN- y, interferon gamma-induced protein 10 (IP-10), interferoninduced protein
   with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (Ifit1), Ifit2, IL-1[p, IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, IL-17,
   IL-21, IL-23, MCP-1, MyD88, Regulated upon activation, normal T-cell expressed, and
   secreted (RANTES), TLR4, TRIF, and TNF-a.
                                              -6-

[0027]      In a further embodiment, the receptor can bind to a biomarker associated with
   skeletal muscle injuries and regeneration, such as creatine kinase, fatty acid binding
   protein (FABP), muscle troponin, myoglobin, and myosin light chain 1 (MLC-1). In a
   further embodiment, the receptor can bind to a biomarker associated with vascular
   injuries and regeneration, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), E-Selectin, intercellular
   adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), ICAM-3, PSelectin, serum amyloid protein A (SAA),
   thrombomodulin, and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1). In an additional
   embodiment, the receptor can bind to a biomarker associated with spinal cord injuries and
   regeneration, such as CRP, erythropoietin (EPO), IL-2, IL-2 receptor (IL-2R), IL-8,
   leptin, matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), MCP-1, neuron-specific enolase (NSE),
   phosphorylated neurofilament-H (pNFH), S100 calcium binding protein B (S100B), and
   TNF-a. In an additional embodiment, the receptor can bind to a biomarker associated
   with spinal nerve root injuries and regeneration, such as cystatin C, vitamin D-binding
   protein (DBP), hyaluronan, MMP-9, neurofilament light subunit (NFL), nociceptin,
    S100, soluble TNF receptor 1 (sTNFR1), tetranectin, and TNF-a.
[0028]      In one embodiment, the plurality of nwFET sensors of the device can bind to at
   least 2, at least 4, at least 6, or at least 12 different biomarkers to simultaneously detect
   their presence in a sample.
[0029]      In one embodiment, the device comprises: (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of
   electrodes; (b) a plurality of nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors embedded
   or disposed on the substrate and connected to the electrodes, wherein each of the nwFET
   sensors comprises a T-shaped structure comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier
   and a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to the latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier,
   wherein the sensing nanowire, and optionally also the node connecting the said sensing
   nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier, comprises receptors immobilized thereon, and
   wherein the nanowire FET amplifier is passivated; and (c) a microfluidic component
   disposed on the substrate and adapted to communicate fluidically with the nwFET
   sensors, the microfluidic component comprising: (i) at least one buffer reservoir
                                                 -7-

   comprising at least one buffer; (ii) at least one sensing arm connected to the at least one
   buffer reservoir, the sensing arm comprising a sample reservoir, a sample filtration
   module comprising at least one channel having a dimension larger than a cell to be
   filtered, and a sample sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one
   of the nwFET sensors; (iii) at least one control arm connected to the at least one buffer
   reservoir, the control arm comprising a control filtration module, a control sensing region
   adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of the nwFET sensors, and
   optionally a control reservoir; and (iv) at least one waste reservoir connected to the
   sensing arm and the control arm, and wherein the microfluidic component defines a flow
   direction from (i) to (iv).
[0030]      In one embodiment, the test strip device outputs are downloadable via an interface
   device to an electronic device.
[0031]      According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method for
   detecting the presence of a biomarker, comprising: providing a device comprising (a) a
   substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes, (b) a plurality of electronic sensors
   integrated or assembled on said substrate and connected to said electrodes, and (c) a
   microfluidic component disposed on said substrate and adapted to communicate
   fluidically with said electronic sensors; and introducing a biological sample to said
   microfluidic component, wherein said microfluidic component directs the flow of said
   biological sample to contact at least one of said electronic sensors, and wherein the
   presence of said biomarker results in a signal change at said at least one of said electronic
   sensors; and further comprising establishing a first reference point for the quantification
   of said biomarker in said biological sample, said first reference point being a first signal
   change resulting from contacting said at least one of said electronic sensors with a first
   reference solution comprising a first lower concentration of said biomarker than said
   biological sample; and establishing a second reference point for the quantification of said
   biomarker in said biological sample, said second reference point being a second signal
   change resulting from contacting said at least one of said electronic sensors with a second
                                              -8-

   reference solution comprising a second lower concentration of said biomarker than said
   biological sample.
[0032]      There is also disclosed herein, a method for detecting the presence of a biomarker,
   comprising: (A) providing a device comprising (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of
   electrodes, (b) a plurality of electronic sensors, such as field-effect transistor (FET)
   sensors or nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors, integrated or assembled on
   the substrate and connected to the electrodes, and (c) a microfluidic component disposed
   on the substrate and adapted to communicate fluidically with the electronic sensors; and
   (B) introducing a biological sample to the microfluidic component, wherein the
   microfluidic component directs the flow of the biological sample to contact at least one of
   the electronic sensors, and wherein the presence of the biomarker results in a signal
   change at the at least one of the electronic sensors.
[0033]      In one embodiment, the microfluidic component comprises at least one sensing
   arm connected to at least one buffer reservoir comprising at least one buffer; wherein the
   sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir for receiving the biological sample, a sample
   filtration module, and a sample sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at
   least one of the electronic sensors; and wherein the biological sample is introduced into
   the sample reservoir to contact a stream of the buffer flowing from the buffer reservoir.
[0034]      In one embodiment, the method further comprises releasing the buffer from the
   buffer reservoir before introducing the biological sample.
[0035]      In one embodiment, the sample filtration module is adapted for inertial filtration,
   and wherein the biological sample mixed with the buffer is filtered by the filtration
   module before entering the sample sensing region.
[0036]      In one embodiment, the microfluidic component further comprises at least one
   control arm connected to the at least one buffer reservoir; wherein the control arm
   comprises a control filtration module, a control sensing region adapted to communicate
   fluidically with at least one of the nwFET sensors, and optionally a control reservoir; and
   wherein the biological sample is not introduced into the control reservoir.
                                              -9-

[0037]     In one embodiment, at least one of the electronic sensors is an nwFET sensor that
   comprises a T-shaped structure comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a
   longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to the latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier, and
   wherein the sensing nanowire comprises at least one receptor immobilized thereon
   adapted to bind to the biomarker.
[0038]     In one embodiment, the method further comprises contacting at least one of the
   electronic sensors with a first reference solution comprising a lower concentration of the
   biomarker than the biological sample, which results in a first signal change in at least one
   of the electronic sensors serving as a first reference point for the quantification of the
   biomarker in the biological sample. In one embodiment, at least two, at least three, or at
   least four different reference solutions comprising lower concentrations of the biomarkers
   are used to generate reference points for the quantification of the biomarker in the
   biological sample.
[0039]     In one embodiment, the method further comprises contacting at least one of the
   electronic sensors with a second reference solution comprising a higher concentration of
   the biomarker than the biological sample, which results in a second signal change in at
   least one of the electronic sensors serving as a second reference point for the
   quantification of the biomarker in the biological sample. In one embodiment, at least
   two, at least three, or at least four different reference solutions comprising higher
   concentrations of the biomarkers are used to generate reference points for the
   quantification of the biomarker in the biological sample.
[0040]     In one embodiment, the first and/or second reference solutions are introduced to
   the microfluidic component which directs the flow of the first and second reference
   solutions to contact the electronic sensors. In one embodiment, the first and/or second
   reference solutions are pre-loaded into one or more reference reservoirs upstream of the
   sample sensing region of the sensing arm and/or upstream of the control sensing region of
                                               -10-

   the control arm, wherein they are adapted to enter the sensing region before and/or after
   the introduction of the biological sample.
[0041]      In one embodiment, the method comprises (A) providing a device, comprising (a)
   a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes; (b) a plurality of nanowire field-effect
   transistor (nwFET) sensors embedded or disposed on the substrate and connected to the
   electrodes, wherein each of the nwFET sensors comprises a T-shaped structure
   comprising a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to a latitudinal nanowire FET
   amplifier, wherein the sensing nanowire, and optionally also the node connecting the said
   sensing nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier, comprises a receptor immobilized thereon
   adapted to bind to the biomarker, and wherein the nanowire FET amplifier is passivated;
   and (c) a microfluidic component disposed on the substrate and adapted to communicate
   fluidically with the nwFET sensors, the microfluidic component comprising:(i) at least
   one buffer reservoir comprising at least one buffer; (ii) at least one sensing arm connected
   to the at least one buffer reservoir, the sensing arm comprising a sample reservoir, an
   sample filtration module comprising at least one channel having a dimension larger than
   a cell to be filtered, and a sample sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with
   at least one of the nwFET sensors; (iii) at least one control arm connected to the at least
   one buffer reservoir, the control arm comprising an optional control reservoir, a control
   filtration module, and a control sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at
   least one of the nwFET sensors; and (iv) one or more waste reservoirs connected to the
   sensing arm and the control arm, and wherein the microfluidic component defines a flow
   direction from (i) to (iv); (B) releasing the buffer from the buffer reservoir; and (C)
   adding a biological sample to the sample reservoir to contact a stream of the buffer
   flowing from the buffer reservoir; wherein the biological sample mixed with the buffer is
   filtered by the sample filtration module before entering the sensing region; and wherein
   the biological sample mixed with the buffer contacts the sensing nanowire of the nwFET
   sensor at the sample sensing region, and wherein a binding between the biomarker and
   the receptor immobilized on the sensing nanowire results in a signal change at the at least
   one of the nwFET sensors.
                                              -11-

[0042]      Additional embodiments of the invention relate to a method for immobilizing a
   receptor, comprising (A) disposing a microfluidic layer on a substrate comprising a
   plurality of electrodes and a plurality of electronic sensors, such as field-effect transistor
   (FET) sensors or nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors, connected to the
   electrodes, wherein the microfluidic layer comprises a plurality of channels adapted to
   communicate fluidically with the electronic sensors; and (B) adding a solution of the
   receptor into at least one of the channels, wherein the receptor contacts and binds to at
   least one of the electronic sensors. In one embodiment, at least 2, at least 4, at least 6, or
   at least 12 different receptors are concurrently and selectively immobilized on the
   plurality of electronic sensors.
[0043]      At least one advantage of at least some embodiments described herein is that no
   bulky optical infrastructure is required due to an imaging-free sensing modality.
   Compared to selected optical assays, the need for fluorescence labeling, and thus
   additional reagents and conjugation steps can be excluded.
[0044]      At least another advantage of at least some embodiments described herein is that
   little or no electrochemical enzyme-based amplification is involved such that enzyme
   reagents and their conjugations are no longer necessary. A very rapid turn-around time
   (TAT) is therefore anticipated for bedside administration.
[0045]      At least another advantage of at least some embodiments described herein is that
   the test strip platform can directly interface with readout electronics such that no skilled
   personnel are needed, in contrast to clinical ELISA tests.
[0046]      At least a further advantage of at least some embodiments described herein is the
   easy-to-handle microfluidics, which can be preloaded with buffer solution and filters out
   cells/debris based on inertial filtration. It is robust and clog-resistant because inertial
   filtration operates with channel dimensions larger than the cells-debris to be removed.
[0047]      At least a further advantage of at least some embodiments described herein is the
   robust detection procedures, which comprises target analyte binding in physiological
   fluid as the first step and biomolecular-to-electrical signal transduction in purified low
                                              -12-

   ionic strength buffer as the second step. This mitigates the charge screening issue
   prohibitive to other FET-based sensing solutions, and simultaneously alleviates the non
   specific competitive binding problem with interfering analytes.
[0048]      At least an additional advantage of at least some embodiments described herein is
   the self-referenced data acquisition platform. The test strip dual-arm design permits
   differential measurements to be taken between the sensing arm with target analytes and
   interferents, and the control arm with substantially only purified buffer. This design can
   effectively suppress any systematic and/or ambient fluctuations induced measurement
   errors, and can enhance the overall detection signal-to-noise (SNR) ratio.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0049]      FIG. 1 shows an example of a Semiconductor Electronic Label-Free Assay
   (SELFA) test strip architecture including both top view and side view. It comprises
   polymer handling micro-fluidics assembled above a multiplexed sensor semiconductor
   (or polymer) chip. Electrodes are accessible from the top for SELFA interface contact.
[0050]      FIG. 2 shows (A) design sketch and (B) chip photo of an example of a SELFA
   test strip, which is capable of performing multiplexed in vitro diagnostics for clinical
   diagnostic applications such as post-transplantation immunity assessment and injury
   biomarker panels.
[0051]      FIG. 3 shows a scanning electron micrograph (SEM) of an example of a T
   nwFET sensor with high sensitivity.
[0052]      FIG. 4 shows an equivalent circuit of an example of a T-nwFET sensor.
[0053]      FIG. 5 shows high sensitivity detection of PSA (A) and cTnI (B) using an
   example of T-nwFET sensors.
[0054]      FIG. 6 shows a side-by-side comparison in cytokine (IL-I P) detection using
   commercial ELISA kit and an example of a T-nwFET LOC sensor. The T-nwFET sensor
                                            -13-

   exhibits roughly 2 orders of magnitude lower limit of detection (LOD) over ELISA (and
   about 1Ox lower LOD over the I-nwFET sensor control).
[0055]     FIG. 7 shows an example of a test strip substrate configuration. (A) The images
   are an example of outlook sketches showing integrated multiplexed nwFET biosensor
   array and electrical interconnection onto the same rigid silicon wafer platform (in brown).
   The transparent layer atop is a passivation layer exposing only the sensing nanowire
   regions (see FIG. 3) inside and contact pads in the periphery. (B) The images are the
   nanofabrication layout and chip photo of a fabricated example device of the multiplexed
   biosensor array portion of the test strip.
[0056]     FIG. 8 shows an example of concurrent and selective receptor immobilization
   scheme. Attached above the test strip surface, a microfluidic layer with parallel and
   separated inlets, channels, and outlets facilitates concurrent and selective immobilization
   of specific receptors (e.g., antibodies to IFN-y, IL-2, FoxP3, TNF-a) to each individual
   nwFET biosensor within the multiplexed array.
[0057]     FIG. 9 shows an example of an assembly of pre-fabricated nwFET biosensor
   chips, with different and separate receptor immobilizations (e.g., antibodies to IFN-y, IL
   2, FoxP3, TNF-a), into a single polymer substrate platform. Electrical interconnections
   are formed post-assembly.
[0058]     FIG. 10 shows an example outlook sketch of a SELFA test strip. This
   configuration has the polymer substrate embedded thereon an array of receptor pre
   immobilized nwFET biosensor chips. The simple handling microfluidics is attached on
   the top surface.
[0059]     FIG. 11 shows example procedures to implement a runtime self-calibration
   scheme using reference solutions with known concentrations.
[0060]     FIG. 12 shows example self-calibration results. The black squares are from
   known concentration target analyte reference solutions. The red triangle is from a blind
   analyte sample.
                                              -14-

                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0061]      All references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
[0062]      While certain conditions and criteria are specified herein, it should be understood
   that these conditions and criteria apply to some embodiments of the disclosure, and that
   these conditions and criteria can be relaxed or otherwise modified for other embodiments
   of the disclosure.
[0063]      While the invention has been described with reference to the specific
   embodiments thereof, it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various
   changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true
   spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claim(s). In addition, many
   modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation, material, composition of
   matter, method, operation or operations, to the objective, spirit and scope of the
   invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the claim(s)
   appended hereto. In particular, while certain methods may have been described with
   reference to particular operations performed in a particular order, it will be understood
   that these operations may be combined, sub-divided, or re-ordered to form an equivalent
   method without departing from the teachings of the invention. Accordingly, unless
   specifically indicated herein, the order and grouping of the operations is not a limitation
   of the invention.
[0064]      TEST STRIP DEVICE
[0065]      As shown in FIG. 1, the SELFA test strip device described herein can comprise a
   microfluidic component (17) assembled atop a test strip substrate (11) embedded thereon
   multiplexed electronic sensors such as nwFET biosensors (41) pre-immobilized with
   respective specific receptors. The test strip substrate can be, for example, a rigid silicon
   wafer with integrated electronic sensors or a bendable polymer for small sensor chips
   assembly. The easy-handling microfluidic component can allow seamless sample
                                             -15-

   preparation and movement through the system with minimal user action and no bulky
   mechanized pumps.
[0066]     The substrate (11) can comprise, for example, a plurality of electrodes (13). The
   electronic sensors (41) and the electrodes (13) can be connected via electrical
   interconnections (15).
[0067]     The microfluidic component (17) can comprise, for example, a buffer reservoir
   (19) for holding a buffer, and a sensing arm (21) and a control arm (31) downstream of
   the buffer reservoir (19). The sensing arm (21) can comprise, for example, a sample
   reservoir (23) for receiving a biological sample, a sample filtration module (25), and a
   sample sensing region (27) adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of the
   electronic sensors. The control arm (31) can comprise, for example, an optional control
   reservoir (33) or dummy reservoir, a control filtration module (35), and a control sensing
   region (37) adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of the electronic sensors.
   The microfluidic component can further comprise, for example, one or more waste
   reservoirs (29, 39) downstream of the sensing arm (21) and the control arm (31).
[0068]     The SELFA test strip device can be pre-loaded with most necessary reagents such
   that no or minimal additional reagent is required to be introduced by the end-user, other
   than the biological sample or bio-specimen. The unique combination of novel
   nanoelectronic biosensors, data acquisition in low-salt control buffer, and differential
   measurements against a built-in control can yield high detection sensitivity. The
   "sensing-in-buffer" procedure can also give rise to high detection specificity due to the
   substantial absence of cross-reacting interferents as well as the fast desorption kinetics of
   the pre-bound interferents. After sampling, the SELFA test strip device can be inserted
   into a common interface (e.g., USB) for readout via the user's computer or smart phone.
   The SELFA test strip device can be disposable for hygienic reasons yet the device itself
   contains no bio-hazardous materials and can be recycled through proper recollection. The
    SELFA test strip device can be operated by a one-step or multi-step testing procedure
   which does not require trained personnel to perform or bio-specimen transportation back
                                            -16-

   to a centralized laboratory. Moreover, the SELFA test strip device permits concurrent
   quantification of multiple biomarker concentrations with a TAT of less than 20 min from
   <100 pL of the user's serum or bodily fluid.
[0069]      The innovative and unique features of the SELFA test strip device described
   herein includes the following: (I) Novel nanoelectronic biosensors: The innovative
   nwFET sensor structure seamlessly integrates therein a sensing nanowire and a nanowire
   FET amplifier (FIG. 3). Occurring at the sensor front-end, biomolecular detections and
   low-noise amplification of the transduced electrical signals can substantially enhance the
   sensor-level sensitivity, which in turn can lower both limit of detection (LOD) and limit
   of quantitation (LOQ). Besides, the sensitivity and dynamic range (DR) attributes are
   electrically tunable at runtime if necessary. (II) Simple handling microfluidics: The
   innovative fluidic architecture combines sequentially programmed capillary flows with
   inertial filtration of cells/debris. This unique combination can provide a simple actuation
   after loading of the sample to analyze, can require little or no additional power, and can
   be robust and clog-resistant because inertial filtration operates with channel dimensions
   larger than the cells/debris to be removed. (III) Robust detection procedure: The
   procedure comprises target analyte binding in physiological fluid as the first step and
   biomolecular-to-electrical signal transduction in purified low-ionic strength buffer as the
   second step. This can mitigate the charge screening issue prohibitive to other FET-based
   sensing solutions, while simultaneously alleviating the non-specific competitive binding
   problem with interfering analytes. (iv) Self-referenced data acquisition platform: The
    SELFA test strip dual-arm design permits differential measurements to be taken between
   the sensing arm with target analytes and interferents, and the control arm with
   substantially only purified buffer (FIG. 2). This design can effectively suppress
   systematic and/or ambient fluctuations induced measurements errors, and thus can
   enhance the overall detection signal-to-noise (SNR) ratio. An optional step can be added
   at the end to introduce one or more reference solutions of known concentrations, from
   one or more pre-loaded reference reservoirs upstream of the sample sensing region and/or
   the control sensing region, to improve quantification performance.
                                               -17-

[0070]     NANOWIRE FIELD-EFFECT TRANSISTOR SENSOR
[0071]     Either integrated or assembled on a substrate, the nwFET sensor described herein
   can comprise a T-shaped structure comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a
   longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to said latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier
   (denoted as T-nwFET). In some embodiments, the T-nwFET can be implemented as
   described in detail in WO 2012/075445, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
   entirety.
[0072]     The nwFET sensor, in one embodiment, comprise at least one sensing nanowire
   having a first end and a second end. The first end of the sensing nanowire connects with
   the nanowire FET to form a node, and the second end of the sensing nanowire is
   connected to a base electrode. The at least one sensing nanowire and nanowire FET each
   comprise at least one semiconductor material. The at least one sensing nanowire, in one
   embodiment, is a straight nanowire, curved nanowire, serpentine nanowire, or in the
    shape of an "L". Various architectures of the nwFET sensors can be used. In one
   embodiment, the device of the invention comprises at least two sensing nanowires, and
   the two sensing nanowires are connected to the nwFET at the same node. In another
   embodiment, the device of the invention comprises at least two sensing nanowires, and
   the two sensing nanowires are connected to the nwFET at different nodes.
[0073]     In some embodiments, a Y-shape nwFET sensor can be used instead of or in
   addition to a T-shape nwFET sensor. Rather than being a straight nanowire, the nanowire
   FET described herein can also be a curved nanowire, a serpentine nanowire, in the shape
   of an "U', in the shape of an "V", or else. The sensing nanowire can be connected to any
   place along the nanowire FET, and at any possible angle which could be beyond the
   range of 0 to 180. If the nanowire FET has the shape of an "L" or "V", the sensing
   nanowire can be connected to the corner of the "L" or "V", or anywhere else along the
   nanowire FET to form the node, and at any possible angle which could be beyond the
   range of 0 to 180.
                                            -18-

[0074}      This innovative sensor structure embraces the large surface area-to-volume ratio
    advantage while offering close-proximity signal amplification with low parasitics as
    explained below. The entire sensor can be shielded fmi      the ambience via passivation,
    except for the sensing nanowire surface. The specific receptors can be immobilized only
    onto the sensing nanowire surface. The biomarker present in the sample solution can be
    bound to the receptors with high specificity. The electric field emanated from the bound
    analyte charges can then be coupled to modulate the sensing nanowire conductance. The
    resultant signal change can be amplified with minimal parasitics by the built-in,
    orthogonal nanowire FET amplifier to attain high sensitivity, and then electronically read
    out,
[00751      The intrinsic signal transduction and amplification mechanism in this T-nwFET
    sensor can be understood with the help of the equivalent circuit illustrated in FIG. 4. The
    node potential at the intersection is labeled as V and each nanowire segment from this
    node to the respective electrode is represented as ananowire resistance (Rx) in series with
    an ideal Schotty diode (D). The sensing nanowire and FET drain cunrent are
    respectively related to the electrode potentials (eg., Vs and VD) by
                                q4VE    n       E{Ri+AR,)
                                            kj
                ID  [exp(((VD        -V.)
                                       kj
                                            -1   DRD)  3 1 1                       (2)
             I0=AA**aexp(-L             )                                          (3)
[00761
[0077}      Since identical Schottky contacts are represented in FIG. 4, the amplification ratio
    (diddia) can be largely detennined by the nanowire resistances R and RD, and
    externally applied potentials Vi and Var During the sensing operation, both the drain (VD)
    and base (V) contacts can be biased positively against the source contact. The
    modulation of sensing nanowire conductance due to specific binding of target analytes
                                               -19-

   can yield a non-zero ARB value, and thus can change the /B according to Equation 1. That
   in turn can vary the potential Vn and modify the semiconductor energy band profile
   between the source and drain contacts. The resultant change in the voltage difference (VD
   - Vn) can yield an exponential change in ID such that an amplification of the detected
   signal can be achieved.
[0078]      SUBSTRATE AND SENSOR CONFIGURATION
[0079]      There are at least two configurations that the nwFET sensors can be disposed on
   the test strip substrate. In the first configuration, an array of multiplexed nwFET
   biosensors, together with electrical interconnections, can be simultaneously fabricated
   onto a rigid wafer platform, such as a silicon-based wafer, as shown in FIG. 7A. FIG. 7B
   shows a nanofabrication layout of the multiplexed nwFET biosensor array portion of the
   test strip as well as the chip photo of a fabricated prototype. The test strip chip surface
   can be capped with a passivation layer (FIG. 7A) to prevent electrical shorts by exposing
   only the sensing nanowire regions inside and electrical pads at the edges. For concurrent
   and selective immobilization of specific receptors onto each individual nwFET biosensor
   within the multiplexed array, a microfluidic structure with parallel inlets, channels, and
   outlets can be adhered on the test strip surface, as shown in FIG. 8, followed by reagents
   introduction. This microfluidic layer can be peeled off from the surface after the receptor
   immobilization step.
[0080]      In the second configuration, an array of pre-fabricated and receptor pre
   immobilized nwFET biosensor chips can be assembled onto a test strip substrate, which
   can be a polymer substrate. For example, FIG. 9 shows an assembly of several nwFET
   biosensor chips pre-immobilized with different receptors. The electrical interconnections
   between the assembled nwFET biosensors and edge pads can be subsequently formed,
   followed by the synthesis of a surface passivation layer. Compared to the first
   configuration, the substrate in the second configuration, assembled with receptor
   immobilized nwFET biosensors, can be smaller in size. The second configuration also
   does not require microfluidic-assisted receptor immobilization as depicted in FIG. 8. On
                                              -20-

   the other hand, compared to the first configuration, the second configuration may involve
   more manufacturing engineering for the on-strip electrical interconnections to the
   assembled nwFET biosensor chips.
[0081]      RECEPTOR IMMOBILIZATION
[0082]      The SELFA test strip device described herein is versatile and can allow
   concurrent multiplexed detection of a wide variety of biomarkers, whether antigens or
   antibodies, upon identification and optimal immobilization of specific receptor molecules
   on the sensing nanowire surface (FIG. 3). Antibody or antigen receptors employed in
   commercial ELISA kits can be adopted. For their immobilizations onto the nwFET
   biosensor surface, the hydroxyl termination on the silicon nanowire surface can be first
   converted to amine termination via, for instance, 3-aminopropyltriethoxysilane (APTES)
   functionalization. The amine termination can be further converted to aldehyde
   termination with, for instance, glutaraldehyde functionalization for the subsequent
   antibody immobilization. The aforementioned cross-linker combination was adopted to
   generate the label-free PSA, cTnI, and IL-1I3 detection data shown in Working Example
    1. However, other cross-linkers known in the art can also be used, such as N
   maleimidobutyryloxy succinimide ester (GMBS) coupling agent.
[0083]      MICROFLUIDIC COMPONENT
[0084]      The microfluidic component of the SELFA test strip device described herein
   innovatively combines sequentially-driven capillary flows with inertial filtration of cells
   and debris. This unique combination can provide an actuation after loading of the sample
   to analyze, can require no additional power, and can be robust and clog-resistant because
   inertial filtration can operate with channel dimensions larger than the cells/debris to be
   removed.
[0085]      The operation of the system can be classified into three parts: (i) actuation to
   initiate wash buffer flow, (ii) sample loading, and (iii) sample flow. A cartridge or
   reservoir will have a pre-loaded wash buffer with low ionic strength in a membrane
   bound capsule. In some embodiments, the first step in running the assay is to puncture
                                            -21-

   this capsule and remove the puncture button. Alternatively, the buffer can be released by
   removing a valve downstream of the buffer reservoir.
[0086]     This actuation action can initiate capillary flow through one or more microfluidic
   channels, which can be hydrophilic, by (a) allowing a vent to atmospheric pressure and
   (b) providing a flow path through the channel. After the wash buffer reaches the sample
   reservoir, a biological sample (e.g., a drop of bodily fluid or blood) can be introduced.
   The biological sample diluted with the wash buffer can be drawn through narrow
   microchannels of a filtration module where inertial and deformability-induced lift forces
   push cells and larger particles away from the channel wall and centerline. Streams of
   diluted biological sample without particulate are then available to flow over the sensing
   region to contact the nwFET sensors. Continuing flow of wash buffer driven by
   downstream large-volume capillary pumps can wash the sensing regions to be occupied
   by low conductivity buffer for measurements. The volume of the capillary can be
   optimized to allow sampling of about 100 pL or less or more of sample followed by
   about 2 mL or less or more of wash buffer. The sensing arm and the control arm can be
   washed in parallel to obtain a differential measurement (see FIG. 1).
[0087]     BUFFER
[0088]      Since the high ionic strength in physiological fluid can be prohibitive to practical
   FET-based sensing due to charge screening, changing the sensing solution to a low-salt
   buffer can be an effective solution. Moreover, differential measurements across two
   parallel analytical arms (FIG. 1, sensing arm and control arm), one for target analytes
   capture and the other for wash buffer flow only, can give rise to high fidelity signal
   transduction with suppressed errors caused by systematic and/or ambient fluctuations.
   The buffer salt concentration can be, for example, less than 200 mM, or less than 100
   mM, or less than 50 mM, or less than 20 mM.
[0089]     At the same time, high detection selectivity can be achieved with the same
   "sensing-in-buffer" procedure. When the sensing solution is changed from filtered serum
   (or other bodily fluid) to purified buffer, many non-specific interferents are substantially
                                             -22-

   absent, whereby avoiding competitive non-specific binding. The use of flowing, instead
   of stationary, buffer together with a polyethylene glycol (PEG) passivation layer can
   further suppresses random biofouling and non-specific surface adsorption on the sensing
   surface. Enhanced overall detection specificity can thus be achieved.
[0090]      ADDITIONAL EMBODIMENTS
[0091]      Embodiment 1 - A device, comprising: (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of
   electrodes; (b) a plurality of electronic sensors integrated or assembled on said substrate
   and connected to said electrodes; and (c) a microfluidic component disposed on said
   substrate and adapted to communicate fluidically with said electronic sensors.
[0092]      Embodiment 2 - The device of Embodiment 1, wherein said microfluidic
   component comprises at least one buffer reservoir and at least one sensing arm connected
   to said buffer reservoir, wherein said sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir, a sample
   filtration module, and a sample sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at
   least one of said electronic sensors.
[0093]      Embodiment 3 - The device of Embodiment 2, wherein said buffer reservoir
   comprises at least one buffer.
[0094]      Embodiment 4 - The device of any of Embodiments 2 to 3, wherein said sensing
   arm further comprises a reference reservoir upstream of said sample sensing region,
   wherein optionally said reference reservoir is pre-loaded with a reference solution.
[0095]      Embodiment 5 - The device of any of Embodiments 2 to 4, wherein said
   microfluidic component further comprises at least one control arm connected to said at
   least one buffer reservoir, wherein said control arm comprises a control filtration module,
   a control sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said
   electronic sensors, and optionally a control reservoir.
[0096]      Embodiment 6 - The device of any of Embodiments 2 to 5, wherein said
   microfluidic component further comprises at least one waste reservoir connected to said
   sensing arm and said control arm.
                                             -23-

[0097]      Embodiment 7 - The device of any of Embodiments I to 6, wherein said substrate
   comprises at least one material selected from the group consisting of a polymer and a
   semiconductor.
[0098]      Embodiment 8 - The device of any of Embodiments I to 7, wherein at least one
   of said nwFET sensors is integrated on said substrate.
[0099]      Embodiment 9 - The device of any of Embodiments I to 7, wherein at least one
   of said nwFET sensors is part of a chip assembled on said substrate.
[00100]     Embodiment 10 - The device of any of Embodiments I to 9, wherein at least one
   of said electronic sensors is a nwFET sensor that comprises a T-shaped structure
   comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a longitudinal sensing nanowire
   connected to said latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier.
[00101]     Embodiment II - The device of Embodiment 10, wherein said sensing nanowire,
   and optionally the node connecting the said sensing nanowire and nanowire FET
   amplifier, comprises a receptor immobilized thereon adapted to bind to a biomarker.
[00102]     Embodiment 12 - A device, comprising: (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of
   electrodes; (b) a plurality of nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors embedded
   or disposed on said substrate and connected to said electrodes, wherein each of said
   nwFET sensors comprises a T-shaped structure comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET
   amplifier and a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to said latitudinal nanowire FET
   amplifier, wherein said sensing nanowire, and optionally the node connecting the said
   sensing nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier, comprises a receptor immobilized
   thereon, and wherein said nanowire FET amplifier is passivated; and (c) a microfluidic
   component disposed on said substrate and adapted to communicate fluidically with said
   nwFET sensors, said microfluidic component comprising: (i) at least one buffer reservoir
   comprising at least one buffer; (ii) at least one sensing arm connected to said at least one
   buffer reservoir, said sensing arm comprising a sample reservoir, an inertial sample
   filtration module comprising at least one channel having a dimension larger than a cell to
   be filtered, and a sample sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least
                                             -24-

   one of said nwFET sensors; (iii) at least one control arm connected to said at least one
   buffer reservoir, said control arm comprising an inertial control filtration module, a
   control sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said
   nwFET sensors, and optionally a control reservoir; and (iv) at least one waste reservoir
   connected to said sensing arm and said control arm, and wherein said microfluidic
   component defines a flow direction from (i) to (iv).
[00103]    Embodiment 13 - A method for detecting the presence of a biomarker,
   comprising: (A) providing a device comprising (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of
   electrodes, (b) a plurality of electronic sensors integrated or assembled on said substrate
   and connected to said electrodes, and (c) a microfluidic component disposed on said
   substrate and adapted to communicate fluidically with said electronic sensors; and (B)
   introducing a biological sample to said microfluidic component, wherein said
   microfluidic component directs the flow of said biological sample to contact at least one
   of said electronic sensors, and wherein the presence of said biomarker results in a signal
   change at said at least one of said electronic sensors.
[00104]    Embodiment 14 - The method of Embodiment 13, wherein said microfluidic
   component comprises at least one sensing arm connected to at least one buffer reservoir
   comprising at least one buffer; wherein said sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir, a
   sample filtration module, and a sample sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically
   with at least one of said electronic sensors; and wherein said biological sample is
   introduced into said sample reservoir to contact a stream of said buffer flowing from said
   buffer reservoir.
[00105]    Embodiment 15 - The method of Embodiment 14, further comprising releasing
   said buffer from said buffer reservoir before introducing said biological sample.
[00106]    Embodiment 16 - The method of any of Embodiments 14 to 15, wherein said
   sample filtration module is adapted for inertial filtration, and wherein said biological
   sample mixed with said buffer is filtered by said filtration module before entering said
   sample sensing region.
                                             -25-

[00107]    Embodiment 17 - The method of any of Embodiments 14 to 16, wherein said
   microfluidic component further comprises at least one control arm connected to said at
   least one buffer reservoir; wherein said control arm comprises a control filtration module,
   a control sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said
   electronic sensors, and optionally a control reservoir; and wherein said biological sample
   is not introduced into said control reservoir.
[00108]    Embodiment 18 - The method of any of Embodiments 13 to 17, wherein at least
   one of said electronic sensors is an nwFET sensor that comprises a T-shaped structure
   comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a longitudinal sensing nanowire
   connected to said latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier, and wherein said sensing nanowire
   comprises a receptor immobilized thereon adapted to bind to said biomarker.
[00109]    Embodiment 19 - A method, comprising: (A) providing a device, comprising (a)
   a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes; (b) a plurality of nanowire field-effect
   transistor (nwFET) sensors embedded or disposed on said substrate and connected to said
   electrodes, wherein each of said nwFET sensors comprises a T-shaped structure
   comprising a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to a latitudinal nanowire FET
   amplifier, wherein said sensing nanowire and optionally the node connecting the said
   sensing nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier, comprises a receptor immobilized thereon
   adapted to bind to said biomarker, and wherein said nanowire FET amplifier is
   passivated; and (c) a microfluidic component disposed on said substrate and adapted to
   communicate fluidically with said nwFET sensors, said microfluidic component
   comprising:(i) at least one buffer reservoir comprising at least one buffer; (ii) at least one
   sensing arm connected to said at least one buffer reservoir, said sensing arm comprising a
   sample reservoir, an inertial sample filtration module comprising at least one channel
   having a dimension larger than a cell to be filtered, and a sample sensing region adapted
   to communicate fluidically with at least one of said nwFET sensors; (iii) at least one
   control arm connected to said at least one buffer reservoir, said control arm comprising a
   control reservoir, an inertial control filtration module, and a control sensing region
                                              -26-

   adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said nwFET sensors; and (iv) one
   or more waste reservoirs connected to said sensing arm and said control arm, and wherein
   said microfluidic component defines a flow direction from (i) to (iv); (B) releasing said
   buffer from said buffer reservoir; and (C) introducing a biological sample to said sample
   reservoir to contact a stream of said buffer flowing from said buffer reservoir; wherein
   said biological sample mixed with said buffer is filtered by said sample filtration module
   before entering said sensing region; and wherein said biological sample mixed with said
   buffer contacts said sensing nanowire of said nwFET sensor at said sensing region, and
   wherein a binding between said biomarker and said receptor immobilized on said sensing
   nanowire results in a signal change at said at least one of said nwFET sensors.
[00110]    Embodiment 20 - A method for immobilizing a receptor, comprising disposing a
   microfluidic layer on a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes and a plurality of
   nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors connected to said electrodes, wherein
   said microfluidic layer comprises a plurality of channels adapted to communicate
   fluidically with said nwFET sensors; and adding a solution of said receptor into at least
   one of said channels, wherein said receptor contacts and binds to at least one of said
   nwFET sensors.
[00111]    Embodiment 21 - The device of any of Embodiments I to 12, further comprising
   an interface for connecting to an electronic device, such as a laptop or a smart phone.
[00112]    Embodiment 22 - The method of any of Embodiments 13 to 19, further
   comprising connecting the test device with an electronic device, such as a laptop or a
   smart phone, via an interface to access test results.
[00113]    WORKING EXAMPLES
[00114]    EXAMPLE 1
[00115]    A T-nwFET sensor as shown in FIG. 3 was fabricated on silicon-on-insulator
   (SOI) wafer substrates using standard integrated circuit fabrication processes. First, the
    SOI layer was thinned to 50 nm and patterned into T-shape nanowire structures with
                                            -27-

   width ranging from 50 nm to 3 pm using electron beam lithography. Next, the source,
   drain, and base metal electrodes were formed by photoresist lift-off of a sputtered
   platinum-on-titanium dual layer. Finally, all the fabricated sensors were covered with a
   layer of silicon nitride, except above the sensing nanowire surface, to passivate them
   from any interaction with the analyte solution during the detection measurements.
   Generic FET sensors with just an I-shape sensing nanowire channel (denoted as I
   nwFET) of the same width and length were co-fabricated for control purposes.
[00116]     First validated were the acceptable baseline electrical characteristics of the
   fabricated T-nwFET sensors. After immobilization of respective specific monoclonal
   antibody receptors on the sensing nanowire surface, preliminary label-free and real-time
   immunodetection of prostate-specific antigens (PSA) and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) were
   performed in low-salt buffer.
[00117]     The pre-optimized T-nwFET LOC sensors exhibited a lower LOD of few pM
   (with practically high current levels) and -32-75x sensitivity boost over the generic I
   nwFET sensor, as shown in FIGs. 5A and 5B. The sensitivity and DR of the T-nwFET
   sensor can be adjusted via structural design and/or voltage biasing at runtime if needed
   for tailored multiplexing applications.
[00118]     In addition, a side-by-side comparison between the novel T-nwFET LOC sensor
   and commercial ELISA kit was conducted for cytokine detection. For specific detection
   of interleukin- 1 beta (IL-1I3), human anti-IL-I P monoclonal   antibody was immobilized
   onto the sensing nanowire followed by the introduction of analyte with increasing
   concentrations. As shown in FIG. 6, the commercial ELISA kit demonstrated an LOD of
   around 0.9 pM extracted via optical density. On the contrary, the T-nwFET sensor
   delivered an LOD of around 7 fM (denoted as C15) which is roughly 2 orders of
   magnitude better than ELISA. It is also noted the T-nwFET sensor's LOD is about 10x
   lower than the I-nwFET control, as shown in FIG. 6.
[00119]     EXAMPLE 2
                                            -28-

[00120]    Besides the sensitive and robust sensing platform hardware, a runtime calibration
   scheme was developed for reliable assay operation in the presence of intrinsic device
   variability. The scheme used is a curve-fitting based approach that involves multiple
   input reference solutions with known concentration together with the blind sample - the
   reference solutions and the sample were sequentially introduced, in an ascending
   concentration order, to the same biosensor for interpolating the blind sample's true
   concentration.
[00121]    The concentrations of reference solutions were somewhat below (and above) the
   expected concentration of the sample; these solutions were introduced to the same
   biosensor in an ascending concentration order and before (and after) the sample
   introduction given the much stronger equilibrium binding than dissociation in such highly
   specific antigen-antibody immunoreactions. In this regard, the 100x lower detection limit
   of the T-nwFET biosensors uniquely permits detection of the lower references. Also,
   such multiple solution introductions and bindings onto the same sensing surface are likely
   impractical in most labeling-based assays.
[00122]    The procedure for implementing the proposed runtime self-calibration scheme is
   shown in FIG. 11. On each receptor pre-immobilized T-nwFET biosensor, a PBS buffer
   solution was first introduced to establish the baseline output signal level. Then the lower
   known concentration target analyte reference solutions were sequentially introduced,
   followed by the actual sample introduction. Since these reference concentrations are
   somewhat lower than the expected sample concentration, there should not be any binding
   competition to interfere with the quantitation process. As an option, additional reference
   solutions with higher known target analyte concentration than the expected sample
   concentration were introduced to establish the upper references. The true sample
   concentration was quantified via interpolation based on the reversible binding reaction
   models at equilibrium state. The fitting parameters are there to handle all practical
   variations mentioned above, which values were deduced from the lower and higher
   known concentration references. An exemplary fitting result validating the original
                                            -29-

   runtime self-calibration scheme on the label-free optics-free T-nwFET biosensors is
   shown in FIG. 12.
[00123]     Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
    "comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
   interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
   components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps
   or components.
[00124]     A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art,
   is not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that
   the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority
   date of any of the claims.
                                            -30-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.     A method for detecting the presence of a biomarker, comprising:
providing a device comprising (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes, (b) a plurality
of electronic sensors integrated or assembled on said substrate and connected to said electrodes,
and (c) a microfluidic component disposed on said substrate and adapted to communicate
fluidically with said electronic sensors; and
introducing a biological sample to said microfluidic component, wherein said microfluidic
component directs the flow of said biological sample to contact at least one of said electronic
sensors, and wherein the presence of said biomarker results in a signal change at said at least one
of said electronic sensors; and
further comprising establishing a first reference point for the quantification of said biomarker in
said biological sample, said first reference point being a first signal change resulting from
contacting said at least one of said electronic sensors with a first reference solution comprising a
first lower concentration of said biomarker than said biological sample; and establishing a
second reference point for the quantification of said biomarker in said biological sample, said
second reference point being a second signal change resulting from contacting said at least one
of said electronic sensors with a second reference solution comprising a second lower
concentration of said biomarker than said biological sample.
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein said microfluidic component comprises at least
one sensing arm connected to at least one buffer reservoir comprising at least one buffer;
wherein said sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir, a sample filtration module, and a sample
sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said electronic sensors;
and
wherein said biological sample is introduced into said sample reservoir to contact a stream of
said buffer flowing from said buffer reservoir.
        3.      The method of claim 2, further comprising releasing said buffer from said buffer
reservoir before introducing said biological sample.
                                                 -31-

         4.       The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein said sample filtration module is adapted for
inertial filtration, and wherein said biological sample mixed with said buffer is filtered by said
filtration module before entering said sample sensing region.
         5.       The method of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein said microfluidic component
further comprises at least one control arm connected to said at least one buffer reservoir; wherein
said control arm comprises a control filtration module, a control sensing region adapted to
communicate fluidically with at least one of said electronic sensors, and optionally a control
reservoir; and
                  wherein said biological sample is not introduced into said control arm.
         6.       The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein at least one of said
sensors is a nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensor comprising a T-shaped structure
comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected
to said latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier, and wherein said sensing nanowire, and optionally a
node connecting the said sensing nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier, comprises a receptor
immobilized thereon adapted to bind to said biomarker.
         7.       The method of claim 6, further comprising:
                  adding a solution of said receptor into said microfluidic component, wherein said
receptor contacts and binds to said nwFET sensor.
         8.       The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising introducing
said first reference solution to said microfluidic component which directs the flow of said first
reference solution to contact said at least one of said electronic sensors; and introducing said
second reference solution to said microfluidic component which directs the flow of said second
reference solution to contact said at least one of said electronic sensors, wherein said first
reference solution and said second reference solution are introduced in an ascending
concentration order of said biomarker.
                                                   -32-

        9.      The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising quantifying a
concentration of said biomarker in said biological sample via interpolation based on said first
reference point and said second reference point.
         10.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising establishing a
third reference point for the quantification of said biomarker in said biological sample, said third
reference point being a third signal change resulting from contacting said at least one of said
electronic sensors with a third reference solution comprising a higher concentration of said
biomarker than said biological sample, and quantifying a concentration of said biomarker in said
biological sample via interpolation based on said first reference point, said second reference
point, and said third reference point, wherein said third reference solution is introduced to said
microfluidic component subsequent to introducing said biological sample to said microfluidic
component.
         11.    A device, comprising:
                (a) a substrate comprising a plurality of electrodes;
                (b) a plurality of electronic sensors integrated or assembled on said substrate and
connected to said electrodes; and
                (c) a microfluidic component disposed on said substrate and adapted to
communicate fluidically with said electronic sensors, wherein said microfluidic component
comprises (i) at least one buffer reservoir, (ii) at least one sensing arm connected to said at least
one buffer reservoir, and (iii) at least one control arm connected to said at least one buffer
reservoir, said sensing arm comprises a sample reservoir and a sample sensing region adapted to
communicate fluidically with at least one of said electronic sensors, said control arm comprises a
control sensing region adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said electronic
sensors, wherein said microfluidic component is adapted to direct a flow of a biological sample
introduced into said sample reservoir to the sample sensing region, and said biological sample is
not introduced into said control arm.
                                                   -33-

         12.      The device of claim 11, wherein said sensing arm comprises a sample filtration
module.
         13.      The device of claim 12, wherein said buffer reservoir comprises at least one
buffer having an ionic strength of less than 200 mM.
         14.      The device of claim 12 or 13, wherein said sample filtration module is adapted for
inertial filtration.
         15.      The device of any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein said control arm comprises a
control filtration module, and optionally a control reservoir.
         16.      The device of claim 15, wherein said microfluidic component further comprises at
least one waste reservoir connected to said sensing arm and said control arm.
         17.      The device of any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein said substrate comprises at
least one material selected from the group consisting of a polymer and a semiconductor.
         18.      The device of any one of claims 11 to 17, wherein at least one of said electronic
sensors is integrated on said substrate.
         19.      The device of any one of claims 11 to 18, wherein at least one of said electronic
sensors is part of a chip assembled on said substrate.
         20.      The device of any one of claims 11 to 19, wherein at least one of said sensors is a
nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensor comprising a T-shaped structure comprising a
latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier and a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to said
latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier.
         21.      The device of claim 20, wherein said sensing nanowire, and optionally a node
connecting the said sensing nanowire and nanowire FET amplifier, comprises a receptor
immobilized thereon adapted to bind to a biomarker.
                                                 -34-

        22.     The device of claim 11, wherein:
                said sensors are a plurality of nanowire field-effect transistor (nwFET) sensors
embedded or disposed on said substrate and connected to said electrodes, wherein each of said
nwFET sensors comprises a T-shaped structure comprising a latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier
and a longitudinal sensing nanowire connected to said latitudinal nanowire FET amplifier,
wherein said sensing nanowire, and optionally a node connecting the said sensing nanowire and
nanowire FET amplifier, comprises a receptor immobilized thereon, and wherein said nanowire
FET amplifier is passivated; and
                said sensing arm comprising a sample reservoir, and an inertial sample filtration
module comprising at least one channel having a dimension larger than a cell to be filtered, and
said sample sensing region is adapted to communicate fluidically with at least one of said
nwFET sensors;
                said control arm comprising an inertial control filtration module, and optionally a
control reservoir, and said control sensing region is adapted to communicate fluidically with at
least one of said nwFET sensors; and
                said microfluidic component further comprising:
                (iv) at least one waste reservoir connected to said sensing arm and said control
arm, and wherein said microfluidic component defines a flow direction from (i) to (iv).
                                                  -35-

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2013296563, is current as of 2018-05-22 21:00 AEST

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
