ABSTRACT
A system comprising an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) (100) configured to transition (520)
from a terminal homing mode (510) to a target search mode (530), responsive to an uplink
signal (451) and/or an autonomous determination of scene change.
FIG. 4

                  4/9
                        400
                  480
                    481
460
                              470
                             410
 420       610
       610
                            44041
     450
               FIG. 4

                         MULTIMODE UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLE
            This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/149,304, filed February 2, 2009, U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/241,017, filed November 9, 2009, U.S. Provisional Patent
 5 Application Serial No. 61/240,985 filed November 9, 2009, U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/240,987 filed November 9, 2009, U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/240,996 filed November 9, 2009, U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application Serial No. 61/241,001 filed November 9, 2009, all of which are hereby
   incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
10 TECHNICAL FIELD
            The invention, in its several embodiments, pertains to unmanned aerial vehicles
   (UAVs) and particularly to small and/or man-portable UAVs.
   BACKGROUND ART
            Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
15 considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
   general knowledge in the field.
            The effectiveness of munitions, such as guided bombs, and strike missiles having
   forward-directed explosives, and/or configured to impart kinetic energy of the vehicle to a
   target, may be characterized as a shrinking conic effectiveness volume that defines the limits
20 to its ability to maneuvering, and desirably contains the target during closed-loop terminal
   homing about the target. Such munitions and missiles satisfy the traditional battlefield where
   the target could be more readily defined, at least to some degrees, relative to non-targets, such
   as elements of the civilians population. Reconnaissance aircraft, including reconnaissance
   UAVs, typically coordinate via communication channels to facilitate a strike mission, such as
25 an artillery strike, on an identified target. A UAV carrying missiles or munitions, may have
   the ability for a quicker response via launching or releasing a missile or munitions from the
   UAV. However, the release of a missile or munitions from a UAV will also suffer from the
   aforementioned shrinking effectiveness cone. Non-traditional engagements exacerbate the
   need for minimal collateral damage, however, with the use of missiles, or munitions with
30 defined effectiveness (i.e., maneuverability) cones, makes it increasingly impossible, due to
                                                    1

   shrinking maneuver time and limited maneuverability of the homing vehicle, to change the
   target or move off-target as the missile or guided bomb closes on the target. FIG. 1A is a
   planar depiction of a maneuver cone of a maneuverable guided device that may be launched
   from a carrier such as by an aircraft 5. The depicted guided device has a ground speed to the
 5 right in the illustration and experiences the effects of both drag and gravity. The nominal
   expected trajectory of the guided device 10 may bring it close to a nominal target 20 disposed
   on the ground 30. Depending on the adjustments of its aerodynamic effectors and/or shift in
   either its center of pressure or center of mass, the guided device 10 may cause its actual
   trajectory to fall within volume of the maneuver cone, depicted in the planar illustration of
10 FIG. 1A as a maneuver region 40. With maximal turning downward, the guided device will
   follow the trajectory illustrated as the most uprange of trajectories from the nominal target,
   i.e., the uprange maneuver-limited boundary 42 of the maneuver cone 40. With maximal
   turning upward - exploiting optima glide slope characteristics of the guided device, the guided
   device will follow illustrated as the most downrange of trajectories from the nominal target,
15 i.e., the downrange maneuver-limited boundary 41 of the maneuver cone 40. The downrange
   footprint 45 of the base of the maneuver cone 40 may be defined as the distance along the
   ground 30 from the uprange maneuver-limited boundary 42 intersection 43 with ground 30 to
   the downrange maneuver-limited boundary 41 intersection 44 with the ground 30. FIG. 1B is
   a planar depiction of a maneuver cone 50 of the guided device 10 of FIG. 1A, but later in the
20 time of flight. The downrange footprint 55 of the base of the maneuver cone 50 may be
   defined as the distance along the ground 30 from the uprange maneuver-limited boundary 52
   intersection 53 with ground 30 to the downrange maneuver-limited boundary 51 intersection
   54 with the ground 30. One may note that the downrange footprint 55 of FIG. 1B is smaller
   than the downrange footprint 45 of FIG. 1A. That is, in comparing FIG. 1A with FIG. IB, the
25 region of ground available to the guided device for target intercept shrinks as the maneuvering
   strike vehicle nears the nominal target.
   DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
            Embodiments of the present invention includes unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)
   embodiments and other apparatus embodiments where the UAV may include a processing
30 unit configured to transition the UAV from a first mode to a second mode, wherein the first
   mode is a terminal homing mode. The terminal homing mode of the processing unit of the
   UAV may further comprise homing on the target volume. In some embodiments, the
   processing unit is further configured to transition the UAV,

   responsive to an uplink signal, from the terminal homing mode to the second mode. In
   some embodiments the processing unit is further configured to transition the UAV,
   from the terminal homing mode to the second mode, responsive to an indicator
   generated by at least one of: onboard processing of the processing unit; an operator;
 5 and an indicator transmitting device. In some embodiments, the payload is integral to
   the UAV. In some embodiments, the payload is configured to be ejected from the
   UAV proximate to the target volume. In some embodiments, the processing unit
   comprises at least one of: a central processor configured to execute computer
   executable instructions; electrical circuitry; electronic circuitry; and a logical gate
10 array. In some embodiments, the second mode is a target search mode. UAV
   embodiments may further include a target sensor. UAV embodiments may further
   include a target sensor suite wherein the target sensor suite of the UAV comprises at
   least one of: an electro-optical camera, a long-wave infrared camera, a short-wave
   infrared camera, a radio frequency receiver, and a radio frequency transceiver. In
15 some embodiments, the UAV may be characterized by a value of weight, and wherein
   the UAV is further configured to sustain a magnitude of lift, when in the second
   mode, of at least the value of the UAV weight. In some embodiments, the UAV may
   be further configured to sustain at least level flight when in the second mode.
   Embodiments of the UAV are powered in flight, via a chemical battery store, storing
20 energy in a range of ten to 1,000 watt-hours, and wherein the UAV is capable of
   transitioning from a terminal homing mode trajectory to a target search mode
   trajectory and then to a terminal homing mode trajectory. Some embodiments of the
   UAV are powered in flight, via a chemical battery store, storing less than 44 watt
   hours of energy, and wherein the UAV is capable of transitioning from a terminal
25 homing mode trajectory to a target search mode trajectory and then to a terminal
   homing mode trajectory. Embodiments of the UAV may be characterized by a value
   of mass of less than 23 kilograms. Embodiments of the UAV are characterized by a
   value of mass of at least 0.5 kilograms and are powered in flight, via a chemical
   battery store and an electrical motor-driven propeller, and where the UAV is capable
30 of transitioning from a terminal homing mode trajectory to a reconnaissance mode
   trajectory and then to a terminal homing mode trajectory. Embodiments of the UAV
   may be characterized by a value of mass of at least 1.3 kilograms and are powered in
   flight, via a chemical battery store and an electrical motor-driven propeller, and
   wherein the UAV is capable of transitioning from a terminal homing mode trajectory

   to a reconnaissance mode trajectory and then to a terminal homing mode trajectory.
   Embodiments of the UAV may be configured to transition from a terminal homing
   mode trajectory to a target search mode trajectory and then to a terminal homing
   mode trajectory, where the UAV may be characterized by a value of launch mass of
 5 less than 23 kilograms, and where the UAV may be configured to generate thrust in
   flight via a propeller powered by least one: (a) a chemical battery store; and/or (b) a
   combustion engine. Embodiments of the UAV may be configured to transition from a
   terminal homing mode trajectory to a target search mode trajectory and then to a
   terminal homing mode trajectory, wherein the UAV is characterized by a value of
10 mass of less than 23 kilograms, and wherein the UAV may be configured to generate
   thrust in flight via a turbine engine. Embodiments of the UAV may be configured for
   powered flight to maneuver to a target search mode trajectory, if the processing unit
   determines an uplink signal indicates a mode transition from a terminal homing mode
   comprising homing toward a target volume, to the target search mode, and if the
15 indicative uplink signal is received at the UAV at least two seconds before the UAV
   achieves its closest approach to the target volume.
           Embodiments of the present invention may include an apparatus comprising
   an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) airframe configured to deliver a payload into a
20 target volume; and a processing unit onboard the UAV airframe, wherein the
   processing unit comprises at least one of: a central processing unit configured to
   execute computer-executable instructions; electrical circuitry; electronic circuitry; and
   a logical gate array; and wherein the processing unit is configured to transition the
   apparatus from a first mode to a second mode, wherein the first mode is a terminal
25 homing mode wherein the terminal homing mode comprises the UAV homing on the
   target volume; and wherein the processing unit is further configured to transition the
   apparatus from the terminal homing mode to the second mode, responsive to an
   indicator generated by at least one of: onboard processing of the processing unit; an
   operator; and an indicator transmitting device. The second mode of some
30 embodiments of the apparatus second mode is a target search mode, and wherein the
   apparatus further comprises a target sensor configured to receive electromagnetic
   emissions from a target search volume during at least the target search mode.
   Embodiments of the apparatus may be further configured to sustain at least level
   flight when in the target search mode.

            Embodiments of the present invention includes methods and systems enabling an
   unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) to transition from a terminal homing mode to a separate
   mode which may be any of a reconnaissance mode, a surveillance, a loiter mode, an
   observation mode, a stand-off mode, and/or a target search mode, responsive to a signal or
 5 value that the processing onboard the UAV recognizes as a mode transition initiation indicator
   that may be provided to the UAV uplink as a signal from an indicator transmitting device
   onboard the third party vehicle or at a third party transmission station, and/or as a signal from
   an operator, e.g., a hand-held user interface, and/or generated as an autonomous determination
   of scene change. An exemplary system may include a UAV comprising at least one sensor
10 which may be a reconnaissance, observation and/or targeting sensor and a processing unit,
   wherein the processing unit is configured to transition the UAV from a terminal homing mode
   to a separate mode, such as a target search mode, responsive to an uplink signal. The at least
   one sensor, such as a targeting sensor, of the UAV may comprise an imaging device and the
   processing unit may be configured to transition the UAV from a terminal homing mode to a
15 separate mode, such as a target search mode based on one or more image change conditions.
   In addition, the UAV may be powered to transition from a terminal homing mode trajectory to
   a separate mode trajectory, such as a target search mode trajectory and then to a terminal
   homing mode trajectory.
            Some embodiments of the UAV may be powered in flight via a chemical battery store,
20 storing less than 100 watt-hours of energy, and powering a UAV propeller motor to transition
   the UAV from a terminal homing mode trajectory to a separate mode trajectory, such as a
   target search mode trajectory and then to a terminal homing mode trajectory. Some
   embodiments of the UAV may have a mass of 1.0 to 1.4 kilograms, and may be powered in
   flight, via a chemical battery store, and an electrical motor-driven propeller to transition the
25 UAV from a terminal homing mode trajectory to a separate mode trajectory, such as a target
   search mode trajectory and then to a terminal homing mode trajectory. Some embodiments of
   the UAV are less than 1.4 kilograms mass having at least one propeller that is electrically
   powered. Some embodiments of the UAV having masses approximately four to 25 kilograms,
   may have at least one propeller that is powered by an electric motor, or a combustion engine,
30 and/or electrical-combustion hybrid engine. Some embodiments
                                                   S

   of the UAV may have a mass of approximately 25 kilograms or less, and may be
   powered by a combustion or turbine engine.
             Some embodiments of the UAV are configured, during a transition from a
 5 terminal homing mode trajectory to a separate mode trajectory, such as a target search
   mode trajectory, to generate a magnitude of lift (aerodynamic lifting force), greater
   than the product of the local acceleration of gravity and the vehicle mass, or greater
   than the weight of the vehicle. Some embodiments of the UAV may be configured to
   power a thrust-generating propeller during a transition from a terminal homing mode
10 trajectory to and during a separate mode, such as a target search mode trajectory. A
   UAV's in-flight acceleration in a direction substantially orthogonal to its centerline
   may be termed "lateral acceleration," and its acceleration or deceleration along its
   centerline may be termed "longitudinal acceleration." Accordingly, embodiments of
   the UAV are configured to laterally accelerate more than is required for level flight,
15 i.e., to overcome gravity, and do so for a duration covering multiple mode transitions.
   That is, the UAV requires a first magnitude of acceleration due to lift greater than a
   local acceleration of gravity in order to hold level flight, and in the present invention
   the UAV is capable of generating a magnitude of acceleration due to lift greater than
   the local acceleration of gravity to transition from a terminal homing mode trajectory
20 to a separate mode, such as a target search mode, trajectory and then to a terminal
   homing mode trajectory. As part of the transition, the vehicle may initiate propeller or
   increase propeller rotation rate. Embodiments of the UAV may be powered in flight to
   achieve such a separate mode, such as a target search mode trajectory-       if the
   processing unit determines an uplink signal indicates a mode transition from a
25 terminal homing mode towards a separate mode, such as a target search mode, and if
   the uplink signal is received at the UAV in time for the UAV to maneuver away from
   the target, such as, in some embodiments, at least two seconds before the UAV's
   closest approach to the target. Such maneuvering away can be to prevent a collision
   with the target or maneuvering to maintain the UAV a minimum distance from the
30 target.
             Being configured to transition between modes of flight, embodiments of the
   UAV are capable of converting stored chemical energy, e.g., battery and/or
   combustible fuel, into vehicle potential energy, e.g., an increased flight altitude,

   and/or kinetic energy, e.g., air speed, during the transition from target homing mode
   to a separate mode, such as a target search or reconnaissance mode, and optionally
   back to a target homing mode.
 5          Machine-enabled process embodiments of the present invention include a
   method of transitioning flight modes of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)
   comprising: (a) testing, by a UAV processor, for a mode change while in an automatic
   terminal homing mode; (b) receiving a mode change command signal from an
   external source and/or an autonomously generated signal based on scene changes; and
10 (c) transitioning to a separate mode, such as a target search mode and altering flight
   commands based on the mode change command signal. Accordingly, for some
   embodiments, the at least one sensor, such as a targeting sensor, of the UAV may
   comprise an imaging device and wherein the processing unit is configured to
   transition the UAV from a terminal homing mode to a separate mode, such as a target
15 search mode based on one or more image change conditions, e.g., a change in quantity
   and/or magnitude of pixel states above a threshold or a change in the information
   content of an image or portion of an image - such as time-differenced discrete time
   Fourier transforms of images. An exemplary method of transitioning flight modes of
   an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) may comprise: (a) testing, by a UAV processor,
20 for a mode change while in an automatic terminal homing mode; (b) receiving a mode
   change command signal; and (c) transitioning to a pre-terminal homing mode, such as
   a separate mode of target detection and/or target acquisition; and (d) altering flight
   commands based on the mode change command signal. For some embodiments, the
   step of receiving a mode change command signal may be based on one or more image
25 change conditions. For some embodiments, the step of receiving a mode change
   command signal may be based on an external source, e.g., a ground operator station or
   an airborne transmitter. For some embodiments, the pre-terminal homing mode may
   be a target search mode, and the target search mode may further comprise a pre
   terminal commit volume. Embodiments of the UAV may downlink images and flight
30 status data, but the flight data from the determined tracking angles of the image
   sensor, the angle rate gyroscopes, the linear accelerometers, and the GPS receiver
   may all be taken into an onboard processing unit to effect flight control changes -via
   control surface actuators and/or propeller spin rate.

            Terminal homing typically includes a descent that is steep enough that the propulsion
   system may reduce its power output, or may not be required at all, for the UAV to maintain
   adequate, or a minimum, closing flight speed. Such a minimum flight speed may be the stall
   and/or a minimum maneuver speed of the UAV. Such a reduction of power results in a reduced
 5 acoustic signature.
            The various UAV embodiments of the invention may be launched via several systems,
   e.g., (a) tube launched from ground; (b) launched or dropped from some other aerial platform;
   (c) launched from a stationary or moving ground or marine vehicle.
            According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a unmanned aerial
 0 vehicle (UAV) comprising:
            a processing unit configured to transition the UAV from a trajectory approaching the
   target volume to a trajectory away from the target volume;
            wherein the UAV is configured to maintain sufficient energy and maneuverability to
   transition from a trajectory approaching the target volume to a trajectory away from the target
 5 volume.
            According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a method
   comprising:
            maintaining, by a processing unit of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), sufficient
   energy and maneuverability of the UAV during a trajectory approaching a target volume to
 0 maneuver the UAV away from the target volume; and
            maneuvering, by the processing unit of the UAV, the UAV away from the target
   volume;
            wherein the maneuvered UAV avoids impact with the target volume.
            According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a apparatus
25 comprising:
            an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) airframe configured to deliver a payload into a
   target volume via homing on the target volume; and
            a processing unit onboard the UAV airframe, wherein the processing unit comprises at
   least one of: a central processing unit configured to execute computer-executable instructions;
30 electrical circuitry; electronic circuitry; and a logical gate array; wherein the processing unit is
   configured to engage in two or more terminal homing approaches to the target volume; wherein

   the two or more terminal homing approaches comprise one or more instructions for the UAV
   homing on the target volume; and wherein the processing unit is further configured to
   transition the UAV away from the target volume in at least one of the two or more terminal
   homing approaches.
 5          It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
   disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
           Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
   claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
   sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
10 "including, but not limited to".
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example and not
   limitation in the figures of the accompanying drawings, and in which:
           FIG. 1A is a depiction of maneuver limits of a maneuverable strike vehicle;
15         FIG. 1B is a planar depiction of the shrinking maneuver cone of a maneuverable
   strike vehicle;
           FIG. 2A is a plan view of an air vehicle embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 2B is a side elevational view of the air vehicle embodiment of the present
   invention;
20         FIG. 3 is a top level functional block diagram of a system architecture embodiment of
   the present invention;
           FIG. 4 is an exemplary depiction of operational deployments of an embodiment of
   the present invention;
           FIG. 5 is a top level flowchart of an exemplary mode logic of an embodiment of the
25 present invention;
           FIG. 6 is another exemplary depiction of operational deployments of an embodiment
   of the present invention;
           FIG. 7 is another exemplary depiction of operational deployments of an embodiment
   of the present invention;
30         FIG. 8 is another top level flowchart of an exemplary mode logic of an embodiment
   of the present invention;

           FIG. 9 is an exemplary depiction of a UAV in a racetrack pattern transitioning
   to homing on a ground target, breaking from terminal homing, and returning to a
   racetrack pattern;
           FIG. 10 depicts an exemplary volume of space denied to a UAV due to the
 5 vehicle's maneuver limits;
           FIG. 11 depicts an exemplary UAV having maneuver and range limits in an
   early terminal homing phase; and
           FIG. 12 depicts a UAV having maneuver and range limits in a later terminal
   homing phase.
10
   BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
           Reference is made to the drawings that illustrate exemplary embodiments of
   the present invention. FIG. 2A illustrates a top view of an exemplary embodiment of
   the UAV portion 100 of the present invention. The exemplary UAV comprises a front
15 end 110 having a homing sensor 111, e.g., a pixel array for sensing visible and/or
   infrared light, and deployable payload 112, e.g., a warhead or other payload for
   precision delivery that may be lethal or non-lethal in nature, i.e. a deployable
   electronic subassembly, a pigmenting capsule. The front end may be configured to
   support various warheads such as those that may be high explosive (HE), armor
20 piercing, a shaped-charge, anti-personnel, anti-radiation, electro-magnetic pulse
   (EMP) and/or a directed blast. These warheads may be removable and/or
   interchangeable. The front end may be configured to support an additional battery
   pack in lieu of or in partial place of a warhead unit, which may extend the range of the
   UAV.     Embodiments of the UAV may have a sensor suite, including sensors 111 and
25 115, that comprises one or more of the following passive and/or active receivers such
   as: radar imaging sensor, such as a millimeter wave system, a laser receiver and/or
   transmitter, a laser imagining system such as a light detection and ranging (LiDAR)
   device, and other electromagnetic detectors such as radio wave receivers.
   Commercial sources for these exemplary front end sensors include the Micron
30 MT9P031, 5Mp CMOS Digital Image Sensor by Micron Technology, Inc. of Boise,
   ID 83707-0006. The front end 110 may also include an electronics assembly (EA)
   113, or avionics, that may include a guidance processor comprising guidance
   instructions that, when executed, take in information pertaining to the UAV position,
   linear and/or rotational velocities, linear accelerations and/or attitude, and generate

   commands for either or both autopilot processing and/or engine control processing or
   remote human pilot processing. The front end 110 or EA 113 may also include a side
   viewing sensor or camera 115 (shown in FIG. 2A and 2B) positioned to allow
   viewing of an object or target while the UAV is turning about the object or target. For
 5 example, by banking the UAV such that the side viewing sensor 115 is aimed towards
   the ground, the sensor 115 could observe a target while the UAV rotates about it. The
   sensor 115 could be any of the example sensors set forth herein for the sensor 111.
           The UAV may comprise one or more power sources 114, such as battery units,
10 combustion engines including internal combustions engines, turbines, or fuel cells,
   and power conditioning circuits. Additional, propulsive power sources may augment
   or replace a propeller system such as, a turbine engine, or a solid or liquid rocket
   motor. Embodiments of the UAV may include a chemical battery store, e.g., storing
   approximately 44 watt-hours of energy that may be used to power onboard electrical
15 devices including a propeller motor for a flight of ten to 30 minutes for a UAV in the
   range of one to 1.5 kilograms mass. Embodiments of the UAV may be smaller and/or
   have shorter flight durations and/or have less mass, and/or a different lift-to drag ratio,
   and accordingly may require less than 44-watt hours. Embodiments of the UAV may
   be larger and/or have longer flight durations, and accordingly may require more than
20 44-watt hours. As the vehicle mass may grow over approximately 1.3 kilograms,
   thrust and lift requirements for an efficient terminal homing cone may drive the
   vehicle to include a combustion engine augmenting a battery-electrical system having
   greater than 44-watt hours, such a hybrid system, or replacing the battery-electric
   system with an internal combustion engine and/or a turbine engine. The UAV may
25 include vehicle-specific sensors, e.g., a GPS antenna and GPS receiver, e.g., as part of
   the EA and/or attitude and/or rate gyroscopes and/or linear accelerometers that may
   be proximate to the EA and/or vehicle center of gravity. The UAV may include a
   mode of thrust generation, such as a propeller 130 and a propeller motor 131, and
   other embodiments may use, separately or in combination, turbine motors and/or
30 rocket motors.
           The UAV may have lifting surfaces such as starboard wing 141, a port wing
   142, a port tail 144, a starboard tail 143 and rudders 145,146. The wing elements 141,
   142 may have actuated control surfaces 147, 148, operating as elevons, or may be

   embodied as wings with surfaces operated as elevators. Embodiments of the UAV
   may have a minimum for level flight with a maneuver margin of about 1.2 to 2.0
   times the acceleration of gravity, sustainable for a major portion of the duration of a
   sortie. In terminal homing mode and at the last possible point of abort, embodiments
 5 of the UAV have a maneuver margin of about 2.0 to 2.5 times the acceleration of
   gravity. Higher accelerations characterizing maneuverability may be desired, but one
   recognizes these higher levels are achievable with a bigger wing, and/or higher lift,
   airfoils that both require additional weight and volume. Embodiments of the UAV
   have a wing area of 0.049 square meters (about 76 square inches) and can be in the
10 range of 0.016 square meters (about 15 square inches) to 1.0 square meters (about
   1550 square inches).
            Reference is made to U.S. provisional patent application no. 61/240,985, filed
   September 9, 2009, titled "Elevon Control System," which is incorporated herein by
15 reference. The tail elements 143, 144 may have actuated control surfaces, operated as
   ailerons or elevators. The rudders 145, 146 of the UAV may be body-fixed, i.e., the
   rudders 145, 146 function as vertical stabilizers, and accordingly, the UAV may be
   statically stable in yaw, i.e., the yaw center of pressure aft of the vehicle center of
   gravity. The UAV yaw stability may be augmented by articulated, controlled trailing
20 sections or surfaces of the one or more rudder surfaces. Some embodiments of the
   UAV may have a two-rudder assembly mounted on a rotatable platform conformal to
   the UAV fuselage to effect an augmentation in yaw control. In some embodiments,
   the UAV is packaged in a UAV launcher-container and is man-portable. Reference is
   made to U.S. provisional patent application no. 61/240,987, filed September 9, 2009,
25 titled "Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Portable Launch Tube," which is incorporated
   herein by reference. The UAV may have a mass of 0.5 to 25 kilograms. Accordingly,
   some embodiments of the UAV may be configured to transition from a terminal
   homing mode trajectory to a target search mode trajectory and then to a terminal
   homing mode trajectory, where the UAV has a launch weight mass of less than 25
30 kilograms mass, and is powered in flight via a propeller driven by a chemical battery
   store, a combustion engine, or both. In some embodiments, the UAV may be powered
   by a turbine engine. Embodiments of the UAV may be configured to transition from a
   terminal homing mode trajectory to a target search mode trajectory and then to a
   terminal homing mode trajectory while having airspeeds in the range of 50 to 120

   knots, and a flight duration of about 20 minutes, where the UAV has a launch weight
   mass of 1.0 to 2.0 kilograms mass, and is powered in flight via a propeller driven by a
   chemical battery store, a combustion engine, or both.
 5          FIG. 2B shows in side view the exemplary UAV where the port wing 142 is
   shown with the trailing control surface 148 in motion and with two antenna wires
   210, 220 (not to scale) extending from the fuselage 201. One antenna element may be
   used as an uplink 210, particularly for receiving a mode control signal that effects a
   transition from a terminal homing mode to a target search mode, or loiter mode, or a
10 transition from target search mode to a homing mode, e.g., a terminal homing mode.
   Another antennal element may be used as a downlink 220 for transmitting data such
   as live video, automatic video tracking status, flight parameters, and/or UAV states.
   A single antenna may be used for both functions when equipped with transceiver
   capability. While video data and flight status data may be downlinked, the UAV
15 processes output from various onboard flight sensors, e.g., gyros, accelerometers,
   GPS receiver outputs, and target data from the image sensor, or other front end target
   seeker/tracker sensor, via an onboard processor to generate control surface actuation
   commands and accordingly guide the UAV for both target search and terminal
   homing phases and the transition therebetween. A GPS antenna 230 may be mounted
20 conformably or within the fuselage, i.e., behind the skin of the fuselage when made of
   material largely transparent (low loss) in the GPS frequency bands. Generally, the
   GPS antenna may be mounted or otherwise disposed on or along the UAV fuselage so
   as to be capable of receiving signals from a GPS satellite constellation.
25          FIG. 3 shows an exemplary functional block diagram of the UAV processing
   and guidance and control subsystem 300 where the guidance sensor 310 provides
   information about the external environment pertaining to seeking or tracking
   processing of a seeker or tracker processor 320. A guidance sensor, and more
   generally, a guidance sensor suite, may include a passive and/or active radar
30 subsystem, an infrared detection subsystem, an infrared imaging subsytem, a visible
   light imaging subsystem such as a video camera-based subsystem, an ultraviolet light
   detection subsystem, and combinations thereof. The seeker processor 320 may include
   both image processing and target tracking processing, and target designation or re
   designation input 321 that may be received from an uplink receiver 335 and/or as an

   output of a guidance processor 330. The image processing and/or target tracking
   information 322 may be transmitted via a downlink transmitter 323, which may be a
   part of an uplink/downlink transceiver. The guidance processor 330, in executing
   instructions for guidance processing, may take in the target information 324 from the
 5 seeker processing 320, and UAV flight status information such as position, velocity,
   and/or attitude from the GPS receiver 331, and/or gyroscopes and accelerometers 332,
   if any. The guidance processor 330, to receive navigation waypoints and/or target
   search optimizing trajectories, may reference a memory store 333. For system
   embodiments, the guidance process 330 may receive and/or upload navigation
10 waypoints and/or target search optimizing trajectories, by way of an external data port
   334, e.g., during a pre-launch phase, or by way of an uplink receiver 335, e.g., during
   a post-launch phase. The guidance processor 330, as part of executing instructions for
   determining flight path, a trajectory, or a course steering angle and direction, may
   reference the waypoint and/or surveillance optimizing trajectory information,
15 particularly when not in a terminal homing mode. Reference is made to U.S.
   provisional patent application no. 61/241,001, filed September 9, 2009, titled
   "Unmanned Aerial Vehicle System with Remotely Operated UAV in an RF
   Transparent Launch Tube," which is incorporated herein by reference. The guidance
   processor 330 may receive a command via an uplink receiver 335 to switch or
20 otherwise transition from a terminal homing mode to a target search mode, i.e., non
   terminal homing mode, and switch from a target search mode to a terminal homing
   mode. The UAV may autonomously, or responsive to an uplink, process images from
   a side-mounted camera, i.e. sensor 115, or other scene-sensing sensor, and switch to a
   front-mounted camera or other scene-sensing sensor. For example, a visual target lock
25 by the seeker processing 320 may be tracked with reference to GPS coordinates and
   integrated into a terminal homing solution that may be iteratively determined by the
   guidance processor 330 executing instructions pertaining to determining a revisable
   terminal solution. The guidance processing 330 may include a strap-down navigation
   solution aided by the GPS receiver, and may accordingly support the storage of pre
30 terminal commit points or return waypoints following a break from terminal homing
   that may be initiated by an external uplink or initiated autonomously based on scene
   changes during the terminal homing phase. Thereafter, the UAV may return to a
   volume of space within, proximate to, or substantially the same volume of space from
   which it initiated the preceding terminal phase. Embodiments of the avionic sensors

   may include exemplary devices such as a digital camera having five megapixel
   resolution, an image rate of 60 Hz, digital zoom, e.g., 1X-3X, regional subframing,
   and automatic brightness control, and/or a long wavelength infrared camera having a
   640x480 FPA format, a STMicroelectronics of Geneva, Switzerland ARMTM 9
 5 microcontroller, a STMicroelectronics LIS3LO2DQ MEMS 3-axis linear
   accelerometer, Analog Devices, Inc. of Norwood, Massachusetts ADXRS612
   gyroscopes, a Silicon Microstructures, Inc. of Milpitas, California SM5872 air speed
   sensor, a VTI Technologies, Inc. of China SCPI000-DO1/D 11 Pressure Sensor as
   Barometer and Altimeter, a Honeywell, Inc. of Plymouth, Minnesota HMC 1043
10 magnetometer, and a uBlox of Thalwil, Switzerland NEO-5Q GPS (LI, C/A code)
   receiver and a patch LI GPS antenna. Other GPS receivers and antennas may be used
   depending on mission and expected environmental conditions.
            Embodiments of the flight air speed of the UAV may be in the range of 57 to
15 130 miles per hour (50-112 knots), however other air speeds are possible. An example
   of a terminal homing mode may utilize a combination of pursuit and proportional
   navigation guidance with a gravity bias that may be applied for strike sub-modes of
   the terminal homing mode, and an acceleration bias that may be applied for aerial
   intercept sub-modes of the terminal homing mode. The guidance processing 330 and
20 autopilot processing 340 may execute instructions to effect a bank-to-turn guidance,
   for example in an elevon embodiment, to redirect the air vehicle by reorienting its
   velocity vector principally via roll angle and lift, and additional via propeller
   throttling. For example, one or more control surfaces may be reoriented via one or
   more control surface actuators 350 causing forces and torques to reorient the air
25 vehicle and the portion of its linear acceleration that is orthogonal to its velocity
   vector. The portion of the linear acceleration of the air vehicle that is along the
   velocity vector is greatly affected by aerodynamic drag, and the linear acceleration
   may be increased via a motor processor 360 and a propeller motor 370. For
   embodiments with full three-axis control, additional control topologies may be
30 implemented including skid-to-turn and other proportion-integral-differential
   guidance and control architectures as well. The seeker processing, guidance
   processing, motor processing, and/or autopilot processing may be executed by a
   single microprocessor having addressable memory and/or the processing may be

   distributed to two or more microprocessors in distributed communication, e.g., via a
   data bus.
           FIG. 4 is a simplified illustration 400 of a mode transition of the present
 5 invention. The UAV 410 may be in a racetrack, circular (i.e. rotation about a ground
   point or potential target) or other pattern of flight 420 as part of a target search mode,
   loiter mode, surveillance mode, reconnaissance mode and/or other observation mode.
   The seeker processing together with the guidance processing and/or an uplink from a
   command node, e.g. a ground command node 450, may place the UAV 410 into a
10 terminal homing strike mode 430. The UAV 410 then may home on the ground target
   440, e.g., a ground vehicle, in an effort to get close enough to effectively deploy a
   payload, such as detonating a warhead, dropping a beacon, or dispensing a pigment,
   and/or effect a collision with the target. Prior to deploying the payload, the UAV 410
   may receive a mode transition signal 451 from the command node 450, and the UAV
15 410, responsive to the mode transition signal 451, returns to the previous target
   search, loiter, surveillance, reconnaissance or observation mode 420 (or at least
   substantially the same), or a new target search, loiter, surveillance, reconnaissance or
   observation mode 460.
20         In embodiments, in either of the previous mode 420 or the new mode 460,
   with the UAV 410 in a banked turn a side positioned or facing sensor, such as the side
   sensor 115 set forth herein, that is positioned on the UAV 410 towards the inside of
   the banked turn may be capable of viewing a ground target 490 positioned generally
   at the center of the turn. Then when the UAV transitioned into the terminal homing
25 mode 430, the UAV may switch to a front positioned or facing sensor, such as sensor
   111 (FIG. 2A) set forth herein. In other embodiments while in mode 420 and/ or
   mode 460, the UAV 410 could switch between different sensors, such as side and
   front cameras, to maintain observation of a target.
30         The UAV may engage in terminal homing air-to-air mode with an air vehicle
   such as a helicopter 470 and the command node may be airborne 480. Responsive to
   signal to go into the terminal homing air-to-air mode, the UAV may employ or switch
   to a guidance sensor better suited for terminal homing air-to-air mode target tracking.
   The UAV 410 may then home on the air target 470 in an effort to get close enough to

   effectively deploy a payload, such as detonating a warhead, and/or to effect a collision
   with the air target 470. Prior to deploying the payload, the UAV 410 may receive a
   mode transition signal 481 from a command node such as the airborne command node
   480. The UAV 410, responsive to the mode transition signal 481, returns to the
 5 previous surveillance mode 420, or a new or alternate target search mode, or loiter
   mode 460. A mission may be defined as a series of events, modes, and/or objectives
   executed, performed, and achieved, in the course of a sortie, or while the UAV is in
   flight and operative. During a mission, the UAV, in some embodiments, may receive
   multiple mode transmission signals and perform multiple mode transitions. In some
10 embodiments the terminal homing mode may be terminated upon warhead detonation
   or contact with the target, contact with the ground, or an air-to-air miss.
            The ability of the UAV 410 to switch between modes of operation, whether
   once or repeatedly, allows the operator of the UAV to perform a relatively broad
15 field-of-view surveillance from a stand-off distance for a period of time, and also to
   perform close approaches, on one or more occasions, to obtain more detailed
   information. With the UAV in the surveillance position, the broad or wide field view
   that the operator is provided allows the operator to form a comprehensive or strategic
   understanding of the area under surveillance and events occurring therein. That is, the
20 operator can view not only the particular potential target, but also the surrounding
   area, i.e., an area that may include a number of other possible targets and the
   proximity of non-combatants. This gives the operator flexibility as the options of
   UAV use, and accompanying available actions. For example, with the UAV in the
   surveillance mode and at a relatively high altitude, the operator can watch a building
25 and the area around it to observe the arrival or departures of vehicles and personnel,
   and do so prior to making a decision as to whether to engage the UAV, and if so,
   which object is to be targeted.
            However, given the inherent limitations of a relatively small fixed camera
30 (with no or limited pan-tilt-zoom capabilities), such as that which is usable on small
   and/or man-portable UAVs, as that described herein, the amount of detail provided
   while the UAV is in a surveillance position may be insufficient to meet the operators
   needs for decisions to initiate engagement and targeting. That is, while the detail may

   be enough to select a particular building or area, it may not be sufficient to allow for
   selection or differentiation of a particular vehicle or animate object.
            In such a case, embodiments of the present invention allow the operator to
 5 initiate a terminal homing mode to direct the UAV 410 toward a selected/designated
   target in order to obtain greater detailed information as the UAV approaches the
   target. During this approach, the operator may use this detailed information in many
   different ways including confirming selection or de-selection of the initial target,
   selecting another target, evaluating the chosen approach, and/or other potential target
10 approaches, obtaining a better understanding of the target or target area, identifying a
   specific person, vehicle, building, or other item, or other such action. As noted
   herein, during this terminal homing phase the operator and/or the UAV's processor
   can command a mode change to have the UAV 410 transition from terminal homing
   back to a surveillance or target search mode. During the course of a mission the
15 operator may engage in several terminal homing approaches, knowing that it will be
   transitioned out of prior to reaching the potential target or payload deployment, in
   order to gain the desired information on the potential target or targets and/or the
   surrounding area.
20          FIG. 5 is a top level flowchart 500 illustrating an example of the logic of the
   mode transition. The UAV may be in an automatic terminal homing mode 510 and
   continually checking for a mode change input 520. In this example, if a mode change
   command signal from an external source is received prior to payload deployment, the
   UAV may transition to the target search / surveillance mode 530, or loiter mode,
25 without deploying the payload. The UAV mode logic processing may continue in this
   mode 530 until, for example, one or more targeting criteria are met 540 to initiate
   automatic terminal homing, or the UAV may be placed into terminal homing via an
   up-linked command 550. The terminal mode may include strike, i.e., ground target
   intercept, and/or air-to-air intercept or payload deployment sub-modes, and payload
30 deployment sub-modes modes may include sub-sub-modes e.g., sub-sub-modes may
   include beacon deployment followed by pigment dispersal.
            Some embodiments as illustrated in FIG. 4 further include processing
   configured to store the three-space, e.g., xyz, north-east-down (NED), coordinates of

   a return point, e.g., a post-homing waypoint, and/or a commit point. For example,
   FIG. 6 illustrates a UAV 410 that may be in a racetrack, circular or other pattern of
   flight 420 as part of a target search, surveillance/reconnaissance mode, a loiter mode
   and/or observation mode. The seeker, or seekers processing together with the
 5 guidance processing and/or an uplink from a command node, e.g. a ground command
   node 450, may place the UAV 410 into a terminal homing strike mode 430 at a
   commit point 610 or commit volume in space. The commit point 610 or space may
   include an orientation of the UAV to place on target or at least to position the UAV
   such that the UAV homing and/or targeting sensor may be capable of acquiring or
10 imaging the target for tracking. The UAV 410 then homes with respect to the ground
   target 440, e.g., a ground vehicle. Prior to deploying the payload, the UAV 410 may
   receive a mode transition signal 451 from the command node 450, and the UAV 410,
   responsive to the mode transition signal 451, would then return to the previous target
   search or reconnaissance /surveillance or loiter mode 420 or to a new target search or
15 reconnaissance/surveillance mode (not shown), or loiter mode 460, as illustrated in
   Fig. 4, and particularly may return to a commit volume or commit point 610, or at
   least substantially to this volume or point. Another option for processing, for example,
   is for the UAV to head to a new location for the loiter and/or commit point, e.g., a
   new commit point that most closely and/or most quickly puts the UAV back on target,
20 or at least sufficiently repositioned so that the homing and/or targeting sensor may be
   capable of acquiring or imaging the target. For example the UAV may be directed to
   a new position that allows the operator view, via a display of a down-linked feed
   originating from the camera onboard the UAV, the target and initiate an attack on the
   target. The orientation of the UAV at the commit point 610 aids the homing/targeting
25 sensor and/or pilot of the UAV to re-engage the target. In embodiments when the
   UAV reaches or nears the loiter and/or commit point 610, the UAV can inform the
   user via a downlink, for example. Accordingly, an operator may receive increased
   views of the region of interest via the down-linked feed, that may enhance the
   situational awareness of the operator and thereby reduce the time required by the
30 operator to discern a viable target on which to engage terminal homing.
            Some embodiments as previously illustrated in FIG. 4 further include
   processing configured to store the three-space, e.g., xyz, NED, coordinates of a return
   point, e.g., a post-homing waypoint, and/or a commit point. For example, FIG. 7

   illustrates a UAV 410 that may be in a racetrack, circular or other pattern of flight 420
   as part of a surveillance/reconnaissance, target search mode, or a loiter mode. The
   target sensor processing together with the guidance processing and/or an uplink from
   a command node, e.g. a ground command node 450, may place the UAV 410 into a
 5 terminal homing strike mode 430 at a commit point 610 or at a commit volume in
   space. The UAV 410 then homes with respect to the ground target 440, e.g., a ground
   vehicle. Prior to deploying the payload, the UAV 410 may autonomously place itself
   into mode transition and return to the previous surveillance mode 420 or a new target
   search, reconnaissance /surveillance, or loiter mode 460, as illustrated in Fig. 4, and
10 particularly may return to a commit volume or commit point 610. For example, a
   helicopter 470 may fly between the target vehicle 440 and the UAV 410. The image
   processing onboard the UAV may detect an abrupt change in target seeker image
   content and autonomously change flight mode to return to the commit volume 610 or
   mode 420. For example, the image processing may include a threshold test where
15 frame-to-frame changes, or changes across several frames, in pixel states, or portions
   of frame-to-frame changes in pixel states are determined, and if above a threshold
   level representative of clear sky (VFR) navigation plus minor weather condition
   effects, then the threshold may represent object obscuration of the target, e.g., an air
   vehicle interposing itself between the target and the homing UAV, and/or the
20 threshold may represent the target area masking itself, e.g., via a smoke screen or the
   target moving into defilade. Other tests may include thresholding and testing based on
   changes in the image via frame-to-frame changes, or changes across several frames, in
   discrete Fourier transforms (DFTs) of a portion of an image, e.g., in the region of an
   image containing the target, abrupt changes in the DFTs between frames or across
25 several frames may indicate obscurations necessitating a transition from terminal
   homing to a reconnaissance mode.
            FIG. 8 is a top level flowchart 800 illustrating an example of the logic of the
   mode transition. The UAV may be in an automatic terminal homing mode 810 and
30 continually checking for conditions to set a mode change 820. In this example, the
   UAV may process all or a portion of the images received via an onboard camera, and
   may test whether scene content has changed significantly in a set period of time prior
   to payload deployment. If not, the image processing may set a mode change flag that
   may transition the flight mode to a terminal homing commit volume 830 that may

   have been saved, or a target search reconnaissance/surveillance or loiter mode,
   without deploying the payload. The UAV mode logic processing may continue in this
   mode 830 until, for example, one or more targeting criteria are met 840 to initiate
   automatic terminal homing, or the UAV may be placed into terminal homing via an
 5 up-linked command 850. An example of a scene change test may include a minimum
   percentage of pixels swinging through a percentage of sensed intensity range over a
   set of frames. Abrupt intensity changes in a field of the image, particularly proximate
   to the region covered by an image tracker may indicate an object disposed between
   the target and the UAV or a false positive tracking solution. Another example of a
10 scene change test may be comparisons of two-dimensional frequency transforms of
   portions of an image at selected intervals to determine whether significant scene
   composition changes have occurred. Abrupt changes in the frequency content of a
   portion of an image, i.e., changes in image complexity, particularly proximate to a
   region covered by an image tracker may indicate an object disposed between the
15 target and the UAV or a false positive tracking solution. Embodiments of the UAV
   have onboard processing that allows the UAV to continue the mission and possibly
   change the mode back to surveillance in the event of a loss of signal contact with the
   operator. For example, a ground-based operator, via user interface and uplink, may
   designate a target, and, responsive to the designation, the UAV may then initiate the
20 terminal homing phase. As the UAV gets closer to the ground, the line-of-site
   between the operator and the UAV may become lost, e.g., due to mountains and/or
   trees. The loss of line-of-sight communication may trigger the UAV, via the onboard
   processing, to change the mode out of terminal phase, and bring the UAV back to a
   surveillance mode at an altitude sufficient to regain a line-of-sight signal connection.
25 The UAV may record onboard one or more image frame at or after the point or
   detecting a break in the line-of-sight communication, and once line-of-sight
   communication is restored, the UAV may transmit via downlink the one or more
   stored frames.
30          Because the processing necessary to control and direct or navigate the UAV is
   entirely located on-board the UAV, the UAV can operate independently from a
   remote user, operator or off-board processor. That is, the operation of the UAV is not
   dependant on maintaining a communication link with a separate off-board processor
   and/or operator. In embodiments the on-board processor is programmed so that after

   loss of communication with an operator the UAV maintains its current mode or
   automatically transitions to a pre-defined separate or alternate mode, and/or defined
   series of actions or modes. For example, a UAV in a terminal homing mode on a
   target can be programmed to maintain the terminal homing if the communication
 5 signal is interrupted. In this manner the UAV's on-board processing and systems can
   direct the UAV so that it continues and completes the terminal homing and delivers a
   payload autonomously without any additional input or direction from the operator,
   user and/or an off-board processor.
10          The UAV embodiments may include an onboard power source, such as a
   battery, to power the processing, via for example, a power supply, and may have one
   or more batteries as a collective power source for the circuitry of one or more
   electromechanical actuators and the propeller drive circuitry. The airspeed of
   embodiments of the UAV may be in the range of 50-120 knots. Accordingly, the
15 UAV may be sized to have a magnitude lateral acceleration, with reference to its
   velocity vector, of greater than a ground vehicle and may be additionally sized to have
   a lateral acceleration, i.e., acceleration normal to the vehicle centerline, greater than
   that of a slowly maneuvering target. For example, a ground vehicle may accelerate or
   decelerate at 0.1 Gs and higher if braking, where G is the nominal acceleration of
20 gravity, and a helicopter may accelerate or decelerate at 0.3 Gs and higher if climbing
   or diving. The aerodynamic responsiveness, or maneuver responsiveness, of the UAV
   may be characterized by a maneuver time constant defined by the time it takes the
   UAV to achieve 63% of a commanded lateral acceleration. For UAV applications
   against maneuvering targets, i.e., those targets during the terminal homing phase that
25 are changing the orientation and/or magnitude of their velocity vector that may be
   characterized by an evasion time constant, the UAV maneuver time constant may be
   smaller than the target evasion time constant. For example, a ground vehicle having a
   human operator may decelerate with an evasion time constant of three seconds, and
   accordingly, a successful terminal homing UAV may have a maneuver time constant
30 smaller than the three seconds in order to realign the direction of the velocity of the
   UAV to effect a collision and/or to approach sufficiently close to the target as the
   payload and/or warhead may require for mission effectiveness.

            Terminal homing trajectories may be initiated with a time-to-intercept or time
   to-impact of greater than ten times the maneuver time constant of the UAV. The UAV
   may be placed into a terminal homing mode toward an aim point at two to 30 seconds
   until the closest approach to the aim point is achieved. A human operator may add 0.5
 5 to 1.5 seconds to the timeline for generating a break from the terminal homing mode.
   So, an input from the user, or the tripping of an automated tracker threshold at three
   seconds until the closest approach to the target, may be sufficient time for the UAV to
   maneuver, optionally under powered flight, away from the target and toward a
   waypoint. The onboard UAV energy is sufficient such that the execution of an almost
10 completed terminal homing phase, i.e., a homing trajectory phase lasting several
   maneuver time constants, leaves enough energy onboard that may be drawn by the
   UAV to place itself into a target search, reconnaissance, surveillance and/or loiter
   trajectory or flight path. Some embodiments of the UAV may execute the terminal
   phase of flight in a mode that provides less than or no power to the propeller motor.
15 The UAV may power the propeller motor to execute a maneuver discontinuing the
   terminal phase. The propulsive power available to the exemplary UAV is greater than
   the level required for level flight, facilitating the option of the UAV returning to a
   waypoint or flight pattern, such as a target search, reconnaissance, surveillance and/or
   loiter trajectory or mode, after discontinuing the terminal phase. That is, during the
20 transition from target homing back to a target search, reconnaissance, surveillance
   and/or loiter mode, embodiments of the UAV are capable of converting stored
   chemical energy, e.g., a battery store and/or a fuel reservoir, into vehicle potential
   energy via increased altitude, and kinetic energy via increased speed.
25          FIG. 9 depicts an UAV 905 in a racetrack pattern 910 that transitions to
   homing 911 on a ground target 920, and either autonomously or via a third party,
   breaks from terminal homing and returns 912 to a racetrack pattern 910. The flyable
   airspace 930 is depicted as a dome-like volume limited by the on-board power of the
   UAV 905, and the maximum altitude capability 931 of the UAV 905. Due to its
30 maneuverability, on-board power, and ability to convert between potential and kinetic
   energy, the UAV 905 depicted in this example has the capacity and capability to
   utilize the flyable airspace 930 in a variety of ways to facilitate the needs and/or
   requirements of its mission and/or its operator. For example, the UAV 905 may move
   within the flyable airspace 930 to perform target search, reconnaissance, surveillance,

   loiter, and/or otherwise to observe the target 920 at a distance, or wait to begin the
   homing engagement 911 of the target 920, the UAV 905 may enter one or more
   homing phases 911 to engage or evaluate the target, or the UAV may reposition itself
   through via any path, such as path 912 to achieve a desired attitude/altitude and/or
 5 approach angle and/or direction to a target 920 in a target volume 921. One may note
   that each of such examples or other similar actions may be achieved at any of a
   practicably or effectively unlimited number of differing altitudes, attitudes, specs and
   locations, albeit within the flyable airspace 930. As the UAV 905 continues to fly in
   the flyable airspace 930, and as the onboard power is drained, the radius of the ground
10 footprint (lineally expressed as range 940 in the depiction of FIG. 9) of the flyable air
   space 930 of the UAV 905 will monotonically diminish. For example, an exemplary
   UAV embodiment in a range of 1.0 to 2.0 kilograms mass, having a lithium battery
   storing 40- 50 watt-hour battery may be tube-launched using one or more gas
   generating elements within the tube to effect a tube exit velocity of 60 - 120 mph, and
15 the UAV, using an electrically powered propeller may maintain a shrinking flyable
   space 930 in the face of repeated terminal engagements and homing aborts to
   reconnaissance altitudes for about ten to 30 minutes.
            It should be noted, as shown in FIG. 10, that while the a UAV 905 may utilize
20 all the flyable airspace, it is limited in its ability to maneuver as defined and may be
   depicted by a toroidal volume, shown here in FIG. 10 in cross-section as ellipses
   1021, 1022. Powered flight and the energy monitoring and management practiced by
   the UAV enables the UAV to avoid a conic or otherwise limited maneuver envelope
   depicted in a plane as approximately as a skewed triangular region 1030 - during
25 almost all of its flight time, except very late in the terminal homing phase or very late
   in its available flight time - as limited by battery life and potential and kinetic energy.
            Unlike guided bombs and missiles where due to their inherent lack of
   maneuvering and/or lack of sufficient available and/or applicable energy, which
30 defines a fixed and/or closed maneuver cone that projects from the bomb or missile,
   that is bounded by the limits of its maneuverability and terminates at the ground, a
   structure, or other impassable object, the UAV of the embodiments of the present
   invention has sufficient maneuverability and available and/or applicable energy to
   allow it to move freely anywhere within a given area or volume, such as that shown in

   FIGS. 9 and 10. That is, in embodiments of the present invention the UAV can enter
   into a terminal homing mode, which directs the UAV towards the ground, or other
   impassable object, i.e. via the homing to a target on the ground, in a manner generally
   similar to the operation of a guided bomb or a missile, but unlike a guided bomb or
 5 missile, the UAV does possess sufficient maneuverability and applicable energy to
   avoid impact with the ground or other impassable object that it is targeting. That is
   the UAV of embodiments of the present invention is not initially and/or always
   limited in its movement to a closed maneuver limit cone that requires it to intersect or
   impact the ground or the impassable object, such as the case with a guide bomb or
10 missile. In contrast the UAV has the maneuvering and can apply sufficient energy to
   allow it to be lifted via a divert or escape trajectory, e.g., when the UAV is
   transitioning from a terminal homing mode to a target search, reconnaissance,
   surveillance and/or loiter mode, to avoid, at least once and potentially many times,
   from impacting the ground, target or other impassable object.
15
            That is, guided bombs, or missiles homing on a ground target, will necessarily
   impact either the target or a nearby point within the ground footprint of the maneuver
   cone, which is characteristic of the maneuver limitations of the particular guided
   bomb or missile. In contrast, UAV embodiments of the present invention which are in
20 a terminal homing mode may disengage and maneuver up and away from the ground
   target. Thereafter, the UAV embodiments may conduct reconnaissance, re-engage the
   original target, or engage a second target by transitioning into a separate or new
   terminal homing mode to that second target.
25          For example, FIG. 11 depicts a UAV 905 in a terminal homing phase where
   the target 920 in the target volume 921 is within both the range limit 1110 of the UAV
   and the maneuver capability of the UAV. Accordingly, the UAV may timely
   discontinue the terminal homing phase and fly - via an exemplary divert trajectory
   1120 - to a higher altitude, thereby potentially converting some of its kinetic energy
30 to potential energy, and potentially adding energy from an application of thrust, such
   as from operation of a propeller, which may be generated from an on-board power
   source, such as a chemical battery.. UAV embodiments comprise onboard power
   sources, e.g., a chemical battery such as a lithium battery, sufficient for the UAV to
   return to a surveillance altitude, or higher, as needed. That is, if during the dive and

   recovery there was just a potential to kinetic to potential energy conversation, e.g.
   there was no addition of thrust from a propeller added, then the energy losses, e.g., air
   drag, would reduce the overall energy that the UAV had and prevent the UAV from
   returning to the same altitude and speed the UAV had at the beginning of the terminal
 5 homing phase or dive. In contrast to guided bombs and strike missiles, UAV
   embodiments of the present invention are configured to transfer power from the
   battery to the flight energy of the UAV, and as such the UAV can achieve the same,
   or greater altitude and speed as the UAV had at the start of the terminal homing phase
   or mode or dive.
10
            FIG. 12 depicts the circumstances where even with powered flight and energy
   monitoring and management, the UAV 905 during the last few maneuver time
   constants will be limited by a maneuver limit cone 1210. Accordingly, FIG. 12
   depicts a UAV 905 having maneuver limitations due to the constraints of the vehicle
15 target geometry and the lateral acceleration of the UAV 905 itself. In this depiction of
   FIG. 12, the exemplary UAV 905 may be expected to be unable to return to a target
   search, reconnaissance, surveillance, or loiter mode and may either impact the target
   920 in the target volume 921or the ground 1230. That is, the lateral maneuverability
   of the exemplary UAV 905 as depicted, both in terms of responsiveness and maximal
20 lateral acceleration, is insufficient for the closing speed and range to the target to
   effect a successful divert maneuver.
            In embodiments of the present invention a closed maneuver cone bounded by
   the UAV's maneuver limits and a impassable object such as the ground and/or the
25 target, such as that shown by the maneuver limit cone 1210, will be formed and the
   UAV will be unable to achieve an escape trajectory, such as that shown the divert
   trajectory 1120, when the time to the UAV's impact to the target, ground or
   impassable object is about two to three seconds. In embodiments of the present
   invention a closed maneuver cone bounded by the UAV's maneuver limits and an
30 impassable object such as the ground and/or the target, such as that shown by the
   maneuver limit cone 1210, will be formed and the UAV will be unable to achieve an
   escape trajectory, such as that shown in the divert trajectory 1120, when the UAV is
   at a distance from the target, ground or impassable object of about the UAV's velocity
   times about two to three seconds.

          It is contemplated that various combinations and/or sub-combinations of the
  specific features and aspects of the above embodiments may be made and still fall
  within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, it should be understood that various
5 features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments may be combined with or
  substituted for one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed invention.
  Further it is intended that the scope of the present invention herein disclosed by way
  of examples should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described
  above.

CLAIMS:
1.         An unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) comprising:
            a processing unit configured to transition the UAV from a trajectory approaching the
target volume to a trajectory away from the target volume;
            wherein the UAV is configured to maintain sufficient energy and maneuverability to
transition from a trajectory approaching the target volume to a trajectory away from the target
volume.
2.         The UAV of claim 1 wherein the transition to a trajectory away from the target
volume avoids impact of the UAV with the target volume.
3.         The UAV of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the processing unit is configured to transition
the UAV to a trajectory away from the target volume responsive to a signal.
4.         The UAV of claim 3 wherein the signal is an uplink signal from an operator.
5.         The UAV of claim 3 wherein the signal is autonomously provided by the processing
unit based on a scene change of an image detected by a sensor.
6.         The UAV of claim 5 wherein the scene change is at least one of: an object
obscuration of the target volume in the image that exceeds a threshold, an abrupt intensity
change in a field of the image, and an abrupt change in the image complexity.
7.         The UAV of claim 3 wherein the processing unit continually checks for the signal
while in a trajectory approaching the target volume.
8.         The UAV of any one of the preceding claims wherein the processing unit maintains a
minimum flight speed of the UAV during the trajectory approaching the target volume.
9.         The UAV of claim 8 wherein the minimum flight speed of the UAV is at least one of:
a stall speed of the UAV and a minimum maneuver speed of the UAV.
10.        The UAV of any one of the preceding claims wherein the processing unit maintains a
maneuver margin of 2.0 to 2.5 times the acceleration of gravity while in the trajectory

approaching the target volume at the last possible point to transition the UAV away from the
target volume.
11.        The UAV of any one of the preceding claims further comprising:
           one or more sensors, wherein the one or more sensors detect at least one of: a UAV
position, a UAV linear velocity, a UAV rotational velocity, a UAV linear acceleration, and a
UAV attitude.
12.        The UAV of any one of the preceding claims wherein the target volume is stationary.
13.        The UAV of any one of the preceding claims 1 to 11 wherein the target volume is in
motion.
14.        A method comprising:
           maintaining, by a processing unit of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), sufficient
energy and maneuverability of the UAV during a trajectory approaching a target volume to
maneuver the UAV away from the target volume; and
           maneuvering, by the processing unit of the UAV, the UAV away from the target
volume;
           wherein the maneuvered UAV avoids impact with the target volume.
15.        The method of claim 14 wherein maneuvering the UAV away from the target volume
is responsive to a signal.
16.        The method of claim 15 wherein the signal is at least one of: an uplink signal from an
operator, a signal autonomously provided by the UAV processing unit based on a scene change
of an image detected by a sensor, and a signal autonomously provided by the UAV processing
unit based on a location of the UAV.
17.        The method of claim 14 wherein maneuvering the UAV away from the target volume
is responsive to the UAV processing unit losing a signal with an operator.
18.        The method of claim 15 or claim 16 further comprising:
           checking, by the processing unit of the UAV, continually for the signal during the
trajectory approaching the target volume.

19.         The method of claim 15, claim 16 or claim 18 wherein maintaining sufficient energy
and maneuverability of the UAV during trajectory approaching the target volume comprises
maintaining a minimum flight speed of the UAV.
20.         The method of claim 19 wherein the minimum flight speed of the UAV is at least one
of: a stall speed of the UAV and a minimum maneuver speed of the UAV.
21.         The method of any one of the preceding claims 14 to 20 further comprising:
            maneuvering, by the processing unit of the UAV, the UAV toward a waypoint.
22.         The method of claim 21 further comprising:
            maneuvering, by the processing unit of the UAV, the UAV toward the target volume.
23.         An apparatus comprising:
            an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) airframe configured to deliver a payload into a
target volume via homing on the target volume; and
            a processing unit onboard the UAV airframe, wherein the processing unit comprises
at least one of: a central processing unit configured to execute computer-executable
instructions; electrical circuitry; electronic circuitry; and a logical gate array; wherein the
processing unit is configured to engage in two or more terminal homing approaches to the
target volume; wherein the two or more terminal homing approaches comprise one or more
instructions for the UAV homing on the target volume; and wherein the processing unit is
further configured to transition the UAV away from the target volume in at least one of the two
or more terminal homing approaches.
24.         The apparatus of claim 23 wherein at least one of the two or more terminal homing
approaches to the target volume is to accomplish at least one of: confirm a selection of a target
in the target volume, confirm a de-selection of the target in the target volume, select a new
target volume, evaluate a chosen approach of the UAV to the target volume, evaluate one or
more alternate approaches of the UAV to the target volume, identify a specific person in the
target volume, identify a specific vehicle in the target volume, identify a specific building in the
target volume, and identify a specific object in the target volume.
                                              30

25.       The apparatus of claim 23 or claim 24 wherein the processor is configured to deliver
the payload into the target volume in at least one of the two or more terminal homing
approaches.
26.       The apparatus of any one of the preceding claims 23 to 25 wherein the transition
away from the target volume avoids impact of the UAV with the target volume.
                                             31

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
33

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
34

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
35

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
36

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
37

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
38

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
39

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
40

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
41

