                                       ABSTRACT
       This invention provides compounds of the formula I:
    R2' N       (CH2)n  /       0
          1j                             ArNH                O
                                   N '4N                            Cl
                                R3
                                                       HR
                                                        H:I               1
                                                           H2N N    NH2
and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, useful as sodium channel blockers,
compositions containing the same, therapeutic methods and uses for the same and
processes for preparing the same.

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
       CHLORO-PYRAZINE CARBOXAMIDE DERIVATIVES USEFUL
            FOR THE TREATMENT OF DISEASES FAVOURED BY
                       INSUFFICIENT MUCOSAL HYDRATION
                                       Field of the Invention
        The present invention relates to novel compounds, including 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4
((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)
phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2
carboxamide and related compounds and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, useful as
sodium channel blockers, compositions containing the same, therapeutic methods and uses for
the same and processes for preparing the same.
                                   Background of the Invention
        The mucosal surfaces at the interface between the environment and the body have
evolved a number of "innate defense", i.e., protective mechanisms. A principal form of such
innate defense is to cleanse these surfaces with liquid. Typically, the quantity of the liquid layer
on a mucosal surface reflects the balance between epithelial liquid secretion, often reflecting
anion (Cl- and/or HCO3) secretion coupled with water (and a cation counter-ion), and epithelial
liquid absorption, often reflecting Na* absorption, coupled with water and counter anion (Cl
and/or HCO 3 -). Many diseases of mucosal surfaces are caused by too little protective liquid on
those mucosal surfaces created by an imbalance between secretion (too little) and absorption
(relatively too much). The defective salt transport processes that characterize these mucosal
dysfunctions reside in the epithelial layer of the mucosal surface.
         One approach to replenish the protective liquid layer on mucosal surfaces is to "re
balance" the system by blocking Na* channel and liquid absorption. The epithelial protein that
mediates the rate-limiting step of Na* and liquid absorption is the epithelial Na* channel
("ENaC"). ENaC is positioned on the apical surface of the epithelium, i.e. the mucosal surface
environmental interface. Ideally, to inhibit ENaC mediated Na* and liquid absorption, an ENaC
blocker of the amiloride class will be delivered to the mucosal surface and maintained at this site
to achieve maximum therapeutic benefit.
        The use of ENaC blockers has been reported for a variety of diseases which are
ameliorated by increased mucosal hydration. In particular, the use of ENaC blockers in the
treatment of respiratory diseases such as chronic bronchitis (CB), cystic fibrosis (CF), and
                                                   1

      WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
COPD, which reflect the body's failure to clear mucus normally from the lungs and ultimately
result in chronic airway infection has been reported.           See, Evidence for airway surface
dehydration as the initiating event in CF airway disease, R. C. Boucher, Journal of Internal
Medicine, Vol. 261, Issue 1, January 2007, pages 5-16; and Cystic fibrosis: a disease of
vulnerability to airway surface dehydration, R.C. Boucher, Trends in Molecular Medicine, Vol.
 13, Issue 6, June 2007, pages 231-240.
         Data indicate that the initiating problem in both chronic bronchitis and cystic fibrosis is
the failure to clear mucus from airway surfaces. The failure to clear mucus reflects an imbalance
in the quantities of mucus as airway surface liquid (ASL) on airway surfaces. This imbalance
results in a relative reduction in ASL which leads to mucus concentration, reduction in the
lubricant activity of the periciliary liquid (PCL), mucus adherence to the airway surface, and
failure to clear mucus via ciliary activity to the mouth. The reduction in mucus clearance leads to
chronic bacterial colonization of mucus adherent to airway surfaces.        The chronic retention of
bacteria, inability of local antimicrobial substances to kill mucus-entrapped bacteria on a chronic
basis, and the consequent chronic inflammatory response to this type of surface infection, are
manifest in chronic bronchitis and cystic fibrosis.
         There is currently a large, unmet medical need for products that specifically treat the
variety of diseases which are ameliorated by increased mucosal hydration, including chronic
bronchitis, COPD and cystic fibrosis, among others.              The current therapies for chronic
bronchitis, COPD and cystic fibrosis focus on treating the symptoms and/or the late effects of
these diseases. However, none of these therapies treat effectively the fundamental problem of the
failure to clear mucus from the lung.
         R.C. Boucher, in U.S. 6,264,975, describes the use of pyrazinoylguanidine sodium
channel blockers for hydrating mucosal surfaces typified by the well-known diuretics amiloride,
benzamil, and phenamil.       However, these compounds are relatively impotent, considering the
limited mass of drug that can be inhaled to the lung; (2) rapidly absorbed, and thereby exhibiting
undesirably short half-life on the mucosal surface; and (3) are freely dissociable from ENaC.
More potent drugs with longer half-lives on the mucosal surface are needed.
         Too    little protective  surface   liquid on   other   mucosal   surfaces  is a common
pathophysiology of a number of diseases.          For example, in xerostomia (dry mouth) the oral
cavity is depleted of liquid due to a failure of the parotid sublingual and submandibular glands to
secrete liquid despite continued Na* (ENaC) transport mediated liquid absorption from the oral
cavity. Keratoconjunctivitis sira (dry eye) is caused by failure of lacrimal glands to secrete liquid
in the face of continued Na* dependent liquid absorption on conjunctional surfaces.                In
                                                    2

    WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
rhinosinusitis, there is an imbalance between mucin secretion and relative ASL depletion.
Failure to secrete Cl- (and liquid) in the proximal small intestine, combined with increased Na'
(and liquid) absorption in the terminal ileum leads to the distal intestinal obstruction syndrome
(DIOS).    In older patients excessive Na* (and volume) absorption in the descending colon
produces constipation and diverticulitis.
        The published literature includes number of patent applications and granted patents to
Parion Sciences Inc., directed toward pyrazinoylguanidine analogs as sodium channel blockers.
Examples      of   such     publications   include   PCT  Publication      Nos.  W02003/070182,
W02003/070184,        W02004/073629,       W02005/025496, W02005/016879,         W02005/018644,
W02006/022935,        W02006/023573,       W02006/023617,   W02007/018640, W02007/146869,
W02008/031028, W02008/031048, and US Patent Nos. 6858614, 6858615, 6903105, 7064129,
7186833, 7189719, 7192958, 7192959, 7192960, 7241766, 7247636, 7247637, 7317013,
7332496, 7368447, 7368450,           7368451, 7375102, 7388013, 7399766, 7410968, 7807834,
7842697, and 7868010.
        There remains a need for novel sodium channel blocking compounds with enhanced
potency and effectiveness on mucosal tissues. There also remains the need for novel sodium
channel blocking compounds that provide therapeutic effect, but minimize or eliminate the onset
or progression of hyperkalemia in recipients.
                                      Summary of the Invention
This invention provides compounds of the formula I:
       R21 N-,,      (CH2)n             O
           R                                     Ar               NH    O
                                       RH
                                         3( 'R44               H     H
                                                                              N   C1
                                                                      H2 N    N   NH 2
wherein:
        Ar is selected from the group of:
                                                   3

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
                                                                    and
         n is an integer selected from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
         R 1 is selected from hydrogen, C1 -C8 alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
         R 2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
         R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C 1-C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
This invention also provides solvates and hydrates, individual stereoisomers, including optical
isomers (enantiomers and diastereomers) and geometric isomers (cis-/trans-isomerism), mixtures
of stereoisomers, and tautomers of compounds of the formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, as well as pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compounds, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, their use in methods of treatment, and methods for
their preparation.
This invention also provides the compound 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)
naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide,         or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, as well as optical isomers (enantiomers and diastereomers) and geometric
isomers (cis-/trans-isomerism), mixtures of stereoisomers, and tautomers thereof, as well as
pharmaceutical compositions comprising the compound, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, its use in methods of treatment, and methods for its preparation.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of the advantages thereof may
be readily obtained by reference to the information herein in conjunction with the following
figures:
         FIG. 1 is a plot of the effect of Compound 33 on Sheep MCC at 4 hours post-dose.
                                                     4

    WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
        FIG. 2 is a plot of the effect of Compound 123 on Sheep MCC at 4 hours post-dose.
        FIG. 3 is a plot of the effect of Compound 48 on Sheep MCC at 4 hours post-dose.
        FIG. 4 is a plot of the effect of Compound 33 on Sheep MCC at 8 hours post-dose.
        FIG. 5 is a plot of the effect of Compound 152 on Sheep MCC at 8 hours post-dose.
        FIG. 6 is a plot of the enhancement of Compound 33 on Sheep MCC at 8 hours post-dose
by hypertonic saline.
        FIG. 7 is a plot of the effect of Comparative Example I on sheep MCC at 4 hrs post-dose.
        FIG. 8 is a plot of the effect of Comparative Example 1 on sheep plasma potassium
levels.
        FIG. 9 is a plot comparing the activity of Comparative Example 1 and Compound 33 on
sheep MCC at 4h Post-dose.
        FIG. 10 is a plot comparing the effect on sheep Plasma K' levels of Comparative
Example 1 and Compound 33.
        FIG. 11 is a plot comparing the activity of Comparative Example 1 and Compound 123
on sheep MCC at 4h Post-dose.
        FIG. 12 is a plot comparing the effect on sheep Plasma K+ levels of Comparative
Example 1 and Compound 123.
        FIG. 13 is a plot comparing the activity of Comparative Example 1 and Compound 48 on
sheep MCC at 4h Post-dose.
        FIG. 14 is a plot comparing the effect on sheep Plasma K+ levels of Comparative
Example 1 and Compound 48.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
                                                  5

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
         As used herein, the following terms are defined as indicated.
         "A compound of the invention" means a compound of Formula I or a salt, particularly a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         "A compound of Formula I" means a compound having the structural formula designated
herein as Formula I. Compounds of Formula I include solvates and hydrates (i.e., adducts of a
compound of Formula I with a solvent). In those embodiments wherein a compound of Formula
I includes one or more chiral centers, the phrase is intended to encompass each individual
stereoisomer including optical isomers (enantiomers and diastereomers) and geometric isomers
(cis-/trans-isomerism) and mixtures of stereoisomers. In addition, compounds of Formula I also
include tautomers of the depicted formula(s).
         Throughout the description and examples, compounds are named using standard IUPAC
naming principles, where possible, including the use of the ChemDraw Ultra 11.0 software
program for naming compounds, sold by CambridgeSoft Corp./PerkinElmer.
         In some chemical structure representations where carbon atoms do not have a sufficient
number of attached variables depicted to produce a valence of four, the remaining carbon
substituents needed to provide a valence of four should be assumed to be hydrogen. Similarly, in
some chemical structures where a bond is drawn without specifying the terminal group, such
bond is indicative of a methyl (Me, -CH 3) group, as is conventional in the art.
         In one embodiment, the compound of Formula (I) is 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3
(4-(3-(bis(2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-       1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide, having the structure:
                 HO
               HO
                       OH
                       OH
             HO
                   N   OH               O
                          OH         N    NH                         NH   O    N    C
                 HO        OH
                           OH        N
                                     H    NH 2                    N    NH
                                                                        N      N   CI
                                                                  H     H
                              OH
                    HO                                                  H2N    N    NH 2.
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         In another embodiment, the compound of Formula (I) is 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2
amino-3-(4-(3-(bis(2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)
5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide,
having the structure:
                                                  6

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
   OH    OH
                   N                        0ON
OH    OH    OH             OH             NH
                              _O         N                       NHO0
                HO             OH              NH 2           N     N        N     C1
                                                              H     H
                                  OH
                    HO                                               H2N     N     NH 2 .
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        In a further embodiment the compound of Formula (I) is 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-(2
amino-3-(4-(3-(bis(2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide,          having the
structure:
      HO
   HO
             OH
HO
           OH
       NH
                                   0
                                                        N
               OH                    NH2N                                      C
                                                            H   H       I
         HO                                                     H2 N      N   NH 2 .
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        In another embodiment, the compound of Formula (I) is 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2
amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S ,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide,            having  the
formula:
                   HO
               HO,, (R)
                      (R)     OH
               H,,(R)
                        'OH
                     N( S)    ON
                              0 1         I i             I        NHO
                            (R)0H          H      H2            N    N
                   HO'     ()                       2IN               N     i
                               (R) OH             (Ia)          H     H
                      HO                                               H2 N    N     NH 2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Three independent embodiments comprise compounds of Formula (II), Formula (III), and
Formula (IV), respectively:
                                                        7

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
    R2        (CH2)              O
    R                         N                                 NH O
                              H     NN                            N      N   Cl
                                R                             H    H
                                         (II)                      H2 N  N   NH2
R2,
              (CH2)n
                              N O0~
    R1                        N
                                       H
                                                                      HN   N    NH2
R N           (CH2)              O
    R1                aN                                        NH    O
                                      H~ HN                        H         Cl
                                                                             C
                                R3   'R 4                       NN
                                         (IV)                      H2N   N   NH2 ;
wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, C1 -C8 alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
        R 2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
        R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C 1-C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there is a further embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        R1 is selected from hydrogen, C1 -C8 alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
        R 2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
        R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C1 -C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                    8

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there is a further embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        R 1 is selected from hydrogen and C1 -C8 alkyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
        R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C1 -C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there is another embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        R 1 is selected from hydrogen and C1 -C8 alkyl;
        R 2 is hydrogen;
        R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C1 -C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there is still another embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        RI and R2 are each, independently, a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8
carbon atoms;
        R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C1 -C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there exists another embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        RI and R2 are each, independently, a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8
carbon atoms;
        R 3 and R 4 are hydrogen;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                    9

     WO 2014/099676                                                                PCT/US2013/075108
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there is another embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        RI and R2 are each, independently, a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8
carbon atoms;
        R 3 and R 4 are each, independently, C1 -C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Within each group of compounds independently represented by Formulas (I), (II), (III),
and (IV), there is an additional embodiment wherein:
        n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
        R 1 and R 2 are each, independently, a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8
carbon atoms;
        R 3 is hydrogen; and
        R 4 is CI-C 3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        Polyhydroxylated alkyl groups of this invention are those in which an alkyl chain of from
3 to 8 carbon atoms substituted by two or more hydroxyl groups.        Examples of polyhydroxylated
alkyl groups are butane-1,4-diol; butane-1,2,2-triol; butane-1,1,2,3,-tetraol; pentane-1,2,3,4
tetraol; hexane-1,2,3,4,5-pentaol; heptane-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexaol; and octane-1,2,3,4,5,6,7-heptaol.
         One embodiment within each group of compounds described herein are those compounds
in which the polyhydroxylated alkyl group has the formula -CH 2-(CHR 5)-H, wherein n is an
integer selected from 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7, and R 5 is independently in each instance H or OH, with
the proviso that at least two of the R 5 groups are OH.
        Another embodiment within each group of compounds described herein are those
compounds in which the polyhydroxylated alkyl group has the formula -CH 2-CHOH-(CHR 6)m
H, wherein m is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6, and R6 is independently in each
instance H or OH, with the proviso that at least one of the R6 groups is OH.
        A further embodiment within each group of compounds described herein comprises
compounds in which the polyhydroxylated alkyl group has the formula -CH 2-(CHOH)n-CH 2OH,
wherein n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. Another embodiment within each group
of compounds described herein comprises compounds in which n is an integer selected from 2, 3,
                                                     10

    WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
4, or 5. Another embodiment within each group comprises compounds in which n is an integer
selected from 3, 4, or 5.
        In another embodiment within each group of compounds described herein, the chain
represented by the formula -CH 2-(CHOH).-CH 2OH is 2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexane, having the
formula:
                                       OH              OH
                                                                     OH
                                              OH             OH.
        In a further embodiment within each group of compounds described herein, the chain
represented by the formula -CH 2-(CHOH),-CH 2OH is of the formula:
                                           OH               OH
                                                     (        (S)OH
                                                      OH         OH.
        Three further independent embodiments include compounds of Formula (V), Formula
(VI), and Formula (VII), respectively:
       OH   OH
 HO                 N        (CH2)n           O
          OH   OH        OH              N            -NH
                                         HH       N,                               NNC
                   HO       OH                   RN                    N   N       NCl
                                            HH                              H
                      HO       OH                       (V)                 H2N    N   NH 2
       OH   OH
 HO                 N       (CH2)n         O
          OH   OH        OH             N
                                        H      1
                   HO                     R 3
                                                   R4                     NH   O
                              OH                                        NN         NC1
                     HO                                                 N   H
                                                        (VT)H                H2N   N   NH 2
                                                   11

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
        OH    OH
HO                    N       (CH2)n            O
           OH    OH        OH                 N                           NH    O
                                              HNH
                         HO  OH                    N,                                N
                                                                                    Nt   C1
                    HO       OHH                RN R4                     H         N    CH
                                           OH
                       HO                               (VII)                H2 N   N    NH 2
wherein:
         n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; and
         R 3 and R4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C1-C3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         Within each embodiment represented by Formulas (V), (VI), and (VII) there is a further
embodiment wherein n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; and R 3 and R4 are each
hydrogen; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Within each embodiment represented
by Formulas (V), (VI), and (VII) there is another embodiment wherein n is an integer selected
from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6; and R3 and R4 are each C1 -C3 alkyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
         Within each of the embodiments described herein, there is a further embodiment wherein
n is an integer selected from 1, 2, or 3. Within each of the embodiments described herein, there
is a further embodiment wherein n is an integer selected from 4, 5, or 6. Within each of the
embodiments described herein, there are six further independent embodiments wherein n is an
integer of, respectively, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
         The compounds herein, including those of of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI),
and (VII), may be in the form of a free base or a salt, particularly a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt. For a review of pharmaceutically acceptable salts see Berge et al., J. Pharma Sci. (1977)
66:1-19.
         Pharmaceutically acceptable salts formed from inorganic or organic acids include for
example, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, hydroiodide, sulfate, bisulfate, nitrate, sulfamate,
phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, acetate, trifluoroacetate, maleate, malate, fumarate, lactate,
tartrate, citrate, formate, gluconate, succinate, pyruvate, tannate, ascorbate, palmitate, salicylate,
stearate, phthalate, alginate, polyglutamate, oxalate, oxaloacetate, saccharate, benzoate, alkyl or
aryl sulfonates (e.g., methanesulfonate, ethanesulfonate, benzenesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate or
naphthalenesulfonate) and isothionate; complexes formed with amino acids such as lysine,
arginine, glutamic acid, glycine, serine, threonine, alanine, isoleucine, leucine and the like. The
                                                     12

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
compounds of the invention may also be in the form of salts formed from elemental anions such
as chlorine, bromine or iodine.
        For therapeutic use, salts of active ingredients of the compounds of Formula I will be
pharmaceutically acceptable, i.e. they will be salts derived from a pharmaceutically acceptable
acid. However, salts of acids which are not pharmaceutically acceptable may also find use, for
example, in the preparation or purification of a pharmaceutically acceptable compound.
Trifluoroacetate salts, for example, may find such use. All salts, whether or not derived from a
pharmaceutically acceptable acid, are within the scope of the present invention.
        The term "chiral" refers to molecules which have the property of non-superimposability
of the mirror image partner, while the term "achiral" refers to molecules which are
superimposable on their mirror image partner.
        The   term   "stereoisomers"   refers  to compounds      which have     identical chemical
constitution, but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.
"Diastereomer" refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose
molecules are not mirror images of one another.            Diastereomers have different physical
properties, e.g. melting points, boiling points, spectral properties, and reactivities. Mixtures of
diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis
and chromatography.      "Enantiomers" refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non
superimposable mirror images of one another.
        Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker,
Ed., MCGRAW-HiLL DICTIONARY OF CHEMICAL TERMS (1984) McGraw-Hill Book Company,
New York; and Eliel, E. and Wilen, S., STEREOCHEMISTRY OF ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (1994) John
Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.
        Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms, i.e., they have the ability to
rotate the plane of plane-polarized light. In describing an optically active compound, the prefixes
D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral
center(s). A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer, and a mixture of
such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50:50 mixture of enantiomers is referred
to as a racemic mixture or a racemate, which may occur where there has been no stereoselection
or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms "racemic mixture" and
?racemate" refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species.
        The term "tautomers" refers to a type of stereoisomer in which migration of a hydrogen
atom results in two or more structures.      The compounds of Formula I may exist in different
tautomeric forms. One skilled in the art will recognize that amidines, amides, guanidines, ureas,
                                                  13

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
thioureas, heterocycles and the like can exist in tautomeric forms. By way of example and not by
way of limitation, compounds of Formula I can exist in various tautomeric forms as shown
below:
                         o      NH                              0      NH2
           CI      N         N      N            CI      N         N      N
                             H      H                                     H
         H2 N      N     NH2                    H2 N     N      NH2
                         o      NH2                               OH     NH
           CI      N                               CI      N
                            H                                               H
         H2 N      N     NH2                     H2 N      N      NH2
                         OH     NH2
           CI      N
                             N      NA
         H2 N      N      NH2
        All possible tautomeric forms of the amidines, amides, guanidines, ureas, thioureas,
heterocycles and the like of all of the embodiments of Formula I are within the scope of the
instant invention. Tautomers exist in equilibrium and thus the depiction of a single tautomer in
the formulas provided will be understood by those skilled in the art to refer equally to all possible
tautomers.
        It is to be noted that all enantiomers, diastereomers, and racemic mixtures, tautomers,
polymorphs,     pseudopolymorphs     of compounds       within the scope      of Formula      I and
pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof are embraced by the present invention. All mixtures of
such enantiomers and diastereomers, including enantiomerically enriched mixtures                 and
diastereomerically   enriched mixtures     are within    the   scope of the present invention.
Enantiomerically enriched mixtures are mixtures of enantiomers wherein the ratio of the
specified enantiomer to the alternative enantiomer is greater than 50:50. More particularly, an
enantiomerically enriched mixture comprises at least about 75% of the specified enantiomer, and
preferably at least about 85%        of the specified enantiomer.       In one embodiment, the
enantiomerically enriched mixture is substantially free of the other enantiomer.          Similarly,
diastereomerically enriched mixtures are mixtures of diastereomers wherein amount of the
specified diastereomer is greater than the amount of each alternative diastereomer.            More
                                                  14

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
particularly, a diastereomerically enriched mixture comprises at least about 75% of the specified
diastereomer, and preferably at least about 85% of the specified diastereomer.             In one
embodiment, the       diastereomerically enriched   mixture is substantially    free of all other
diastereomers. The term "substantially free of' will be understood by those skilled in the art to
indicate less than a 5% presence of other diastereomers, preferably less than 1%, more preferably
less than 0.1%.    In other embodiments no other diastereomers will be present or the amount of
any other diastereomers present will be below the level of detection.       Stereoisomers may be
separated by techniques known in the art, including high performance liquid chromatography
(HPLC) and crystallization of chiral salts.
        A single stereoisomer, e.g. an enantiomer, substantially free of its stereoisomer may be
obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers
using optically active resolving agents ("Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds," (1962) by E.
L. Eliel, McGraw Hill; Lochmuller, C. H., (1975) J. Chromatogr., 113:(3) 283-302). Racemic
mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable
method, including: (1) formation of ionic, diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and
separation by fractional crystallization or other methods, (2) formation of diastereomeric
compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents, separation of the diastereomers, and conversion to
the pure stereoisomers, and (3) separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers
directly under chiral conditions.
        In one embodiment, the present invention provides an enantiomerically enriched mixture
or composition comprising 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide,      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, as the predominant isomer.
        Other embodiments comprise the enantiomerically enriched mixtures or compositions
comprising, respectively, the compounds of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and
(VII), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as the predominant isomer in each of their
respective mixtures.
        In another embodiment, the present invention provides an enantiomerically enriched
mixture     or   composition     3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide,      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, substantially free of other isomers.
                                                 15

     WO 2014/099676                                                                  PCT/US2013/075108
         Four   other   embodiments    comprise      the    enantiomerically    enriched   mixtures   or
compositions comprising, respectively, the compounds of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V),
(VI), and (VII) ,or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, substantially free of other isomers
in each of their respective mixtures.
         Also provided herein is each of the compounds and groups of compounds described
herein, including those of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use as a medicament.
         A compound of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may exist as
different polymorphs or pseudopolymorphs.         As used herein, crystalline polymorphism means
the ability of a crystalline compound to exist in different crystal structures.          The crystalline
polymorphism may result from differences in crystal packing (packing polymorphism) or
differences in packing between different conformers of the same molecule (conformational
polymorphism).     As used herein, crystalline pseudopolymorphism also includes the ability of a
hydrate or solvate of a compound to exist in different crystal structures. The pseudopolymorphs
of   the   instant  invention  may    exist  due    to differences      in crystal    packing  (packing
pseudopolymorphism) or due to differences in packing between different conformers of the same
molecule     (conformational  pseudopolymorphism).            The   instant invention     comprises   all
polymorphs and pseudopolymorphs of the compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutically
acceptable salts thereof.
         A compound of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may also exist as
an amorphous solid. As used herein, an amorphous solid is a solid in which there is no long
range order of the positions of the atoms in the solid. This definition applies as well when the
crystal size is two nanometers or less. Additives, including solvents, may be used to create the
amorphous forms of the instant invention. The instant invention, including all pharmaceutical
compositions, methods of treatment, combination products, and uses thereof described herein,
comprises all amorphous forms of the compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable
salts thereof.
USES
         The compounds of the invention exhibit activity as sodium channel blockers.            Without
being bound by any particular theory, it is believed that the compounds of the invention may
function in vivo by blocking epithelial sodium channels present in mucosal surfaces and thereby
                                                   16

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
reduce the absorption of water by the mucosal surfaces.         This effect increases the volume of
protective liquids on mucosal surfaces, and rebalances the system.
        As a consequence,      the compounds of the invention are useful as medicaments,
particularly for the treatment of clinical conditions for which a sodium channel blocker may be
indicated.    Such conditions include pulmonary conditions such as diseases associated with
reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
including acute exacerbations of COPD, asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to
conditions other than cystic fibrosis), acute bronchitis, chronic bronchitis, post-viral cough, cystic
fibrosis, emphysema, pneumonia, panbronchiolitis, and transplant-associated              bronchiolitis,
including lung- and bone marrow-transplant associated bronchiolitis, in a human in need thereof.
The compounds of the invention may also be useful for treating ventilator-associated
tracheobronchitis and/or preventing ventilator-associated pneumonia in ventilated patients. The
present invention comprises methods for treating each of the conditions described herein in a
mammal in need thereof, preferably in a human in need thereof, each method comprising
administering to said mammal a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of the present
invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Also provided are (a) a method for
reducing exacerbations of COPD in a mammal in need thereof;              (b) a method for reducing
exacerbations of CF in a mammal in need thereof;          (c) a method of improving lung function
(FEV1) in a mammal in need thereof, (d) a method of improving lung function (FEV1) in a
mammal experiencing COPD, (e) a method of improving lung function (FEV1) in a mammal
experiencing CF, (f) a method of reducing airway infections in a mammal in need thereof.
        Also provided is a method of stimulating, enhancing or improving mucociliary clearance
in a mammal, the method comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a
pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.     Mucociliary clearance will be understood to include the natural
mucociliary actions involved in the transfer or clearance of mucus in the airways, including the
self-clearing mechanisms of the bronchi.       Therefore, also provided is a method of improving
mucus clearance in the airways of a mammal in need thereof.
        Additionally, sodium channel blockers may be indicated for the treatment of conditions
which are ameliorated by increased mucosal hydration in mucosal surfaces other than pulmonary
mucosal surfaces.     Examples of such conditions include dry mouth (xerostomia), dry skin,
vaginal dryness, sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, nasal dehydration, including nasal dehydration brought
on by administering dry oxygen, dry eye, Sjogren's disease, otitis media, primary ciliary
dyskinesia, distal intestinal obstruction syndrome,         esophagitis, constipation,   and chronic
                                                  17

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
diverticulitis. The compounds of the invention can also be used for promoting ocular or corneal
hydration.
        The compounds of the present invention may also be useful in methods for obtaining a
sputum sample from a human. The method may be carried out by administering an effective
amount of a compound of the invention to at least one lung of the patient, and then inducing and
collecting a sputum sample from that human.
        Accordingly, in one aspect, the present invention provides a method for the treatment of a
condition in a mammal, such as a human, for which a sodium channel blocker is indicated.
        In other embodiments, the present invention provides each of the methods described
herein with the additional benefit of minimizing or eliminating hyperkalemia in the recipient of
the method. Also provided are embodiments comprising each of the methods described herein
wherein an improved therapeutic index is achieved.
        The terms "treat", "treating" and "treatment", as used herein refers to reversing,
alleviating, inhibiting the progress of, or preventing the disorder or condition or one or more
symptoms of such disorder or condition.
        All therapeutic methods described herein are carried out by administering an effective
amount of a compound of the invention, a compound of Formula I or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, to a subject (typically mammal and preferably human) in need of
treatment.
        In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of a condition
which is ameliorated by increased mucosal hydration in a mammal, particularly a human in need
thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of a disease
associated with reversible or irreversible airway obstruction in a mammal, particularly a human,
in need thereof. In one particular embodiment the present invention provides a method for the
treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in a mammal, particularly a human
in need thereof.     In one particular embodiment the present invention provides a method for
reducing the frequency, severity or duration of acute exacerbation of COPD or for the treatment
of one or more symptoms of acute exacerbation of COPD in a mammal, particularly a human in
need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of asthma in
a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a
method for the treatment of bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to conditions other than
cystic fibrosis) in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof.     In one embodiment the
invention provides a method for the treatment of bronchitis, including acute and chronic
bronchitis in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention
                                                 18

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
provides a method for the treatment of post-viral cough in a mammal, particularly a human, in
need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of cystic
fibrosis in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention
provides a method for the treatment of emphysema in a mammal, particularly a human in need
thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of pneumonia in a
mammal, particularly a human in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a
method for the treatment of panbronchiolitis in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof.
In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of transplant-associated
bronchiolitis, including lung- and bone marrow-transplant associated bronchiolitis in a mammal,
particularly a human in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for
treating    ventilator-associated  tracheobronchitis    and/or    preventing   ventilator-associated
pneumonia in a ventilated human in need thereof.
         This invention provides specific methods for treating a disease selected from the group of
reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to conditions other than cystic fibrosis),
acute bronchitis, chronic bronchitis, post-viral cough, cystic fibrosis, emphysema, pneumonia,
panbronchiolitis, transplant-associate bronchiolitis, and ventilator-associated tracheobronchitis or
preventing ventilator-associated pneumonia in a human in need thereof, each method comprising
administering to said human an effective amount of a compound of formula 1(a), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In further embodiments for each method of treatment,
the pharmaceutically acceptable salt form is a hydrochloride salt or a hydroxynaphthoate salt of
the compound of formula (la).      In another embodiment within each method of treatment, the
freebase of the compound of formula (Ta) is used.
         In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of dry mouth
(xerostomia) in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof. In one embodiment the
invention provides a method for the treatment of dry skin in a mammal, particularly a human in
need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of vaginal
dryness in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention
provides a method for the treatment of sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration, including
nasal dehydration brought on by administering dry oxygen, in a mammal, particularly a human in
need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of dry eye,
or Sjogren's disease, or promoting ocular or corneal hydration in a mammal, particularly a
human in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the treatment of
otitis media in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof.            In one embodiment the
                                                 19

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
invention provides a method for the treatment of primary ciliary dyskinesia, in a mammal,
particularly a human in need thereof. In one embodiment the invention provides a method for the
treatment of distal intestinal     obstruction syndrome, esophagitis,    constipation, or chronic
diverticulitis in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof.
        There is also provided a compound of the invention for use in medical therapy,
particularly for use in the treatment of condition in a mammal, such as a human, for which a
sodium channel blocker is indicated.      All therapeutic uses described herein are carried out by
administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention to the subject in need of
treatment.    In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the
treatment of a pulmonary condition such as a disease associated with reversible or irreversible
airway obstruction in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof.            In one particular
embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment of chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof.           In
one embodiment, there is provided a compound of the invention for use in reducing the
frequency, severity or duration of acute exacerbation of COPD or for the treatment of one or
more symptoms of acute exacerbation of COPD, in a mammal, particularly a human, in need
thereof.   In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the
treatment of asthma in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof.         In one embodiment
there is provided a compound for use in the treatment of bronchiectasis, including bronchiectasis
due to conditions other than cystic fibrosis, or bronchitis, including acute bronchitis and chronic
bronchitis, in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment there is
provided a compound for use in the treatment of post-viral cough, in a mammal, particularly a
human, in need thereof.     In one embodiment there is provided a compound for use in the
treatment of cystic fibrosis in a mammal, particularly a human in need thereof.             In one
embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment of
emphysema in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment there is
provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment of pneumonia in a mammal,
particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the
invention for use in the treatment of panbronchiolitis or transplant-associated bronchiolitis,
including lung- and bone marrow-transplant associated bronchiolitis in a mammal, particularly a
human, in need thereof. In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for
use in the treatment of ventilator-associated tracheobronchitis or preventing ventilator-associated
pneumonia in a ventilated human in need thereof.
                                                  20

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
        In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment
of a condition ameliorated by increased mucosal hydration in mucosal surfaces of a mammal,
particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment there is provided a compound for use
in the treatment of dry mouth (xerostomia) in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof.
In one embodiment there is provided a compound for use in the treatment of dry skin in a
mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof.          In one embodiment there is provided a
compound for use in the treatment of vaginal dryness in a mammal, particularly a human in need
thereof.   In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the
treatment of sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration, including nasal dehydration brought
on by administering dry oxygen in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one
embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment of dry eye, or
Sjogren's disease or promoting ocular or corneal hydration in a mammal, particularly a human, in
need thereof. In one embodiment there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the
treatment of otitis media in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment
there is provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment of primary ciliary
dyskinesia in a mammal, particularly a human, in need thereof. In one embodiment there is
provided a compound of the invention for use in the treatment of distal intestinal obstruction
syndrome, esophagitis, constipation, or chronic diverticulitis in a mammal, particularly a human,
in need thereof.
        The present invention also provides the use of a compound of the invention in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition in a mammal, such as a human, for
which a sodium channel blocker is indicated.        In one embodiment is provided the use of a
compound of the invention in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of diseases
associated with reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), acute exacerbations of COPD, asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis
due to conditions other than cystic fibrosis), bronchitis (including acute bronchitis and chronic
bronchitis),   post-viral cough, cystic fibrosis,     emphysema, pneumonia, panbronchiolitis,
transplant-associated bronchiolitis, (including lung- and bone marrow-transplant associated
bronchiolitis),   ventilator-associated  tracheobronchitis   or preventing    ventilator-associated
pneumonia.
        In one particular embodiment is provided the use of a compound of the invention in the
manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a condition ameliorated by increased mucosal
hydration in mucosal surfaces, treatment of dry mouth (xerostomia), dry skin, vaginal dryness,
sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, nasal dehydration, including nasal dehydration brought on by
                                                 21

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
administering dry oxygen, treatment of dry eye, Sjogren's disease, promoting ocular or corneal
hydration, treatment of otitis media, primary ciliary dyskinesia, distal intestinal obstruction
syndrome, esophagitis, constipation, or chronic diverticulitis
        The terms "effective amount", "pharmaceutically effective amount", "effective dose", and
"pharmaceutically effective dose" as used herein, refer to an amount of compound of the
invention which is sufficient in the subject to which it is administered, to elicit the biological or
medical response of a cell culture, tissue, system, or mammal (including human) that is being
sought, for instance by a researcher or clinician.        The term also includes within its scope,
amounts effective to enhance normal physiological function. In one embodiment, the effective
amount is the amount needed to provide a desired level of drug in the secretions and tissues of
the airways and lungs, or alternatively, in the bloodstream of a subject to be treated to give an
anticipated physiological response or desired biological effect when such a composition is
administered by inhalation. For example an effective amount of a compound of the invention for
the treatment of a condition for which a sodium channel blocker is indicated is sufficient in the
subject to which it is administered to treat the particular condition.       In one embodiment an
effective amount is an amount of a compound of the invention which is sufficient for the
treatment of COPD or cystic fibrosis in a human.
        The precise effective amount of the compounds of the invention will depend on a number
of factors including but not limited to the species, age and weight of the subject being treated, the
precise condition requiring treatment and its severity, the bioavailability, potency, and other
properties of the specific compound being administered, the nature of the formulation, the route
of administration, and the delivery device, and will ultimately be at the discretion of the attendant
physician or veterinarian. Further guidance with respect to appropriate dose may be found in
considering conventional dosing of other sodium channel blockers, such as amiloride, with due
consideration also being given to any differences in potency between amiloride and the
compounds of the present invention.
        A pharmaceutically effective dose administered topically to the airway surfaces of a
subject (e.g., by inhalation) of a compound of the invention for treatment of a 70 kg human may
be in the range of from about 10 ng to about 10 mg. In another embodiment, the
pharmaceutically effective dose may be from about 0.1 to about 1000 pg. Typically, the daily
dose administered topically to the airway surfaces will be an amount sufficient to achieve
dissolved concentration of active agent on the airway surfaces of from about 10-', 10-, or 10-7 to
about 10-4, 10-1, 10-2, or 10-1 Moles/liter, more preferably from about 10-9 to about 104
Moles/liter. The selection of the specific dose for a patient will be determined by the attendant
                                                   22

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
physician, clinician or veterinarian of ordinary skill in the art based upon a number of factors
including those noted above. In one particular embodiment the dose of a compound of the
invention for the treatment of a 70 kg human will be in the range of from about 10 nanograms
(ng) to about 10 mg. In another embodiment, the effective dose would be from about 0.1 pg to
about 1,000 pg. In one embodiment, the dose of a compound of the invention for the treatment
of a 70 kg human will be in the range of from about 0.5 pg to about 0.5 mg. In a further
embodiment the dose will be from about 0.5 pg to about 60 pg. In another embodiment, the
pharmaceutically effective dose will be from about 1 to about 10 pg. In another embodiment, the
pharmaceutically effective dose will be from about 5 pg to about 50 pg. Another embodiment
will have an effective dose of from about 10 pg to about 40 pg. In two further embodiments, the
pharmaceutically effective dose will be from about 15 pg to about 50 pg from about 15 pg to
about 30 pg, respectively. It will be understood that in each of these dose ranges, all incremental
doses in the range are included. For instance, the 0.5-50 pg range includes individual doses of:
0.5 pg, 0.6 pg, 0.7 pg, 0.8 pg, 0.9 pg, 1.0 pg, 1.1 pg, 1.2 pg, 1.3 pg, 1.4 pg, 1.5 pg, 1.6 pg, 1.7
pg, 1.8 pg, 1.9 pg, 2.0 pg, 2.1 pg, 2.2 pg, 2.3 pg, 2.4 pg, 2.5 pg, 2.6 pg, 2.7 pg, 2.8 pg, 2.9 pg,
3.0 pg, 3.1 pg, 3.2 pg, 3.3 pg, 3.4 pg, 3.5 pg, 3.6 pg, 3.7 pg, 3.8 pg, 3.9 pg, 4.0 pg, 4.1 pg, 4.2
pg, 4.3 pg, 4.4 pg, 4.5 pg, 4.6 pg, 4.7 pg, 4.8 pg, 4.9 pg, 5.0 pg, 5.1 pg, 5.2 pg, 5.3 pg, 5.4 pg,
5.5 pg, 5.6 pg, 5.7 pg, 5.8 pg, 5.9 pg, 6.0 pg, 6.1 pg, 6.2 pg, 6.3 pg, 6.4 pg, 6.5 pg, 6.6 pg, 6.7
pg, 6.8 pg, 6.9 pg, 7.0 pg, 7.1 pg, 7.2 pg, 7.3 pg, 7.4 pg, 7.5 pg, 7.6 pg, 7.7 pg, 7.8 pg, 7.9 pg,
8.0 pg, 8.1 pg, 8.2 pg, 8.3 pg, 8.4 pg, 8.5 pg, 8.6 pg, 8.7 pg, 8.8 pg, 8.9 pg, 9.0 pg, 9.1 pg, 9.2
pg, 9.3 pg, 9.4 pg, 9.5 pg, 9.6 pg, 9.7 pg, 9.8 pg, 9.9 pg,
10.0 pg, 10.1 pg, 10.2 pg, 10.3 pg, 10.4 pg, 10.5 pg, 10.6 pg, 10.7 pg, 10.8 pg, 10.9 pg,
11.0 pg, 11.1 pg, 11.2 pg, 11.3 pg, 11.4 pg, 11.5 pg, 11.6 pg, 11.7 pg, 11.8 pg, 11.9 pg,
12.0 pg, 12.1 pg, 12.2 pg, 12.3 pg, 12.4 pg, 12.5 pg, 12.6 pg, 12.7 pg, 12.8 pg, 12.9 pg,
13.0 pg, 13.1 pg, 13.2 pg, 13.3 pg, 13.4 pg, 13.5 pg, 13.6 pg, 13.7 pg, 13.8 pg, 13.9 pg, 14.0 pg,
14.1 pg, 14.2 pg, 14.3 pg, 14.4 pg, 14.5 pg, 14.6 pg, 14.7 pg, 14.8 pg, 14.9 pg,
15.0 pg, 15.1 pg, 15.2 pg, 15.3 pg, 15.4 pg, 15.5 pg, 15.6 pg, 15.7 pg, 15.8 pg, 15.9 pg, 16.0 pg,
16.1 pg, 16.2 pg, 16.3 pg, 16.4 pg, 16.5 pg, 16.6 pg, 16.7 pg, 16.8 pg, 16.9 pg, 17.0 pg, 17.1 pg,
17.2 pg, 17.3 pg, 17.4 pg, 17.5 pg, 17.6 pg, 17.7 pg, 17.8 pg, 17.9 pg, 18.0 pg, 18.1 pg, 18.2 pg,
18.3 pg, 18.4 pg, 18.5 pg, 18.6 pg, 18.7 pg, 18.8 pg, 18.9 pg, 19.0 pg, 19.1 pg, 19.2 pg, 19.3 pg,
19.4 pg, 19.5 pg, 19.6 pg, 19.7 pg, 19.8 pg, 19.9 pg, 20.0 pg, 20.1 pg, 20.2 pg, 20.3 pg, 20.4 pg,
20.5 pg, 20.6 pg, 20.7 pg, 20.8 pg, 20.9 pg, 21.0 pg, 21.1 pg, 21.2 pg, 21.3 pg, 21.4 pg, 21.5 pg,
21.6 pg, 21.7 pg, 21.8 pg, 21.9 pg, 22.0 pg, 22.1 pg, 22.2 pg, 22.3 pg, 22.4 pg, 22.5 pg, 22.6 pg,
22.7 pg, 22.8 pg, 22.9 pg, 23.0 pg, 23.1 pg, 23.2 pg, 23.3 pg, 23.4 pg, 23.5 pg, 23.6 pg, 23.7 pg,
                                                  23

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
23.8 pg, 23.9 pg, 24.0 pg, 24.1 pg, 24.2 pg, 24.3 pg, 24.4 pg, 24.5 pg, 24.6 pg, 24.7 pg, 24.8 pg,
24.9 pg, 25.0 pg, 25.1 pg, 25.2 pg, 25.3 pg, 25.4 pg, 25.5 pg, 25.6 pg, 25.7 pg, 25.8 pg, 25.9 pg,
26.0 pg, 26.1 pg, 26.2 pg, 26.3 pg, 26.4 pg, 26.5 pg, 26.6 pg, 26.7 pg, 26.8 pg, 26.9 pg, 27.0 pg,
27.1 pg, 27.2 pg, 27.3 pg, 27.4 pg, 27.5 pg, 27.6 pg, 27.7 pg, 27.8 pg, 27.9 pg, 28.0 pg, 28.1 pg,
28.2 pg, 28.3 pg, 28.4 pg, 28.5 pg, 28.6 pg, 28.7 pg, 28.8 pg, 28.9 pg, 29.0 pg, 29.1 pg, 29.2 pg,
29.3 pg, 29.4 pg, 29.5 pg, 29.6 pg, 29.7 pg, 29.8 pg, 29.9 pg, 30.0 pg, 30.1 pg, 30.2 pg, 30.3 pg,
30.4 pg, 30.5 pg, 30.6 pg, 30.7 pg, 30.8 pg, 30.9 pg, 31.0 pg, 31.1 pg, 31.2 pg, 31.3 pg, 31.4 pg,
31.5 pg, 31.6 pg, 31.7 pg, 31.8 pg, 31.9 pg, 32.0 pg, 32.1 pg, 32.2 pg, 32.3 pg, 32.4 pg, 32.5 pg,
32.6 pg, 32.7 pg, 32.8 pg, 32.9 pg, 33.0 pg, 33.1 pg, 33.2 pg, 33.3 pg, 33.4 pg, 33.5 pg, 33.6 pg,
33.7 pg, 33.8 pg, 33.9 pg, 34.0 pg, 34.1 pg, 34.2 pg, 34.3 pg, 34.4 pg, 34.5 pg, 34.6 pg, 34.7 pg,
34.8 pg, 34.9 pg, 35.0 pg, 35.1 pg, 35.2 pg, 35.3 pg, 35.4 pg, 35.5 pg, 35.6 pg, 35.7 pg, 35.8 pg,
35.9 pg, 36.0 pg, 36.1 pg, 36.2 pg, 36.3 pg, 36.4 pg, 36.5 pg, 36.6 pg, 36.7 pg, 36.8 pg, 36.9 pg,
37.0 pg, 37.1 pg, 37.2 pg, 37.3 pg, 37.4 pg, 37.5 pg, 37.6 pg, 37.7 pg, 37.8 pg, 37.9 pg, 38.0 pg,
38.1 pg, 38.2 pg, 38.3 pg, 38.4 pg, 38.5 pg, 38.6 pg, 38.7 pg, 38.8 pg, 38.9 pg, 39.0 pg, 39.1 pg,
39.2 pg, 39.3 pg, 39.4 pg, 39.5 pg, 39.6 pg, 39.7 pg, 39.8 pg, 39.9 pg, 40.0 pg, 40.1 pg, 40.2 pg,
40.3 pg, 40.4 pg, 40.5 pg, 40.6 pg, 40.7 pg, 40.8 pg, 40.9 pg, 41.0 pg, 41.1 pg, 41.2 pg, 41.3 pg,
41.4 pg, 41.5 pg, 41.6 pg, 41.7 pg, 41.8 pg, 41.9 pg, 42.0 pg, 42.1 pg, 42.2 pg, 42.3 pg, 42.4 pg,
42.5 pg, 42.6 pg, 42.7 pg, 42.8 pg, 42.9 pg, 43.0 pg, 43.1 pg, 43.2 pg, 43.3 pg, 43.4 pg, 43.5 pg,
43.6 pg, 43.7 pg, 43.8 pg, 43.9 pg, 44.0 pg, 44.1 pg, 44.2 pg, 44.3 pg, 44.4 pg, 44.5 pg, 44.6 pg,
44.7 pg, 44.8 pg, 44.9 pg, 45.0 pg, 45.1 pg, 45.2 pg, 45.3 pg, 45.4 pg, 45.5 pg, 45.6 pg, 45.7 pg,
45.8 pg, 45.9 pg, 46.0 pg, 46.1 pg, 46.2 pg, 46.3 pg, 46.4 pg, 46.5 pg, 46.6 pg, 46.7 pg, 46.8 pg,
46.9 pg, 47.0 pg, 47.1 pg, 47.2 pg, 47.3 pg, 47.4 pg, 47.5 pg, 47.6 pg, 47.7 pg, 47.8 pg, 47.9 pg,
48.0 pg, 48.1 pg, 48.2 pg, 48.3 pg, 48.4 pg, 48.5 pg, 48.6 pg, 48.7 pg, 48.8 pg, 38.9 pg, 49.0 pg,
49.1 pg, 49.2 pg, 49.3 pg, 49.4 pg, 49.5 pg, 49.6 pg, 49.7 pg, 49.8 pg, 39.9 pg, and 50 pg.
        The foregoing suggested doses may be adjusted using conventional dose calculations if
the compound is administered via a different route. Determination of an appropriate dose for
administration by other routes is within the skill of those in the art in light of the foregoing
description and the general knowledge in the art.
        Delivery of an effective amount of a compound of the invention may entail delivery of a
single dosage form or multiple unit doses which may be delivered contemporaneously or separate
in time over a designated period, such as 24 hours. A dose of a compound of the invention
(alone or in the form of a composition comprising the same) may be administered from one to ten
times per day. Typically, a compound of the invention (alone or in the form of a composition
comprising the same) will be administered four, three, two, or once per day (24 hours).
                                                24

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
         The compounds of formula (I) of the present invention are also useful for treating
airborne infections.     Examples of airborne infections include, for example, RSV.              The
compounds of formula (I) of the present invention are also useful for treating an anthrax
infection. The present invention relates to the use of the compounds of formula (I) of the present
invention for prophylactic, post-exposure prophylactic, preventive or therapeutic treatment
against diseases or conditions caused by pathogens.       In a preferred embodiment, the present
invention relates to the use of the compounds of formula (I) for prophylactic, post-exposure
prophylactic, preventive or therapeutic treatment against diseases or conditions caused by
pathogens which may be used in bioterrorism.
         In recent years, a variety of research programs and biodefense measures have been put
into place to deal with concerns about the use of biological agents in acts of terrorism. These
measures are intended to address concerns regarding bioterrorism or the use of microorganisms
or biological toxins to kill people, spread fear, and disrupt society. For example, the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) has developed a Strategic Plan for
Biodefense Research which outlines plans for addressing research needs in the broad area of
bioterrorism and emerging and reemerging infectious diseases.           According to the plan, the
deliberate exposure of the civilian population of the United States to Bacillus anthracis spores
revealed a gap in the nation's overall preparedness against bioterrorism. Moreover, the report
details that these attacks uncovered an unmet need for tests to rapidly diagnose, vaccines and
immunotherapies to prevent, and drugs and biologics to cure disease caused by agents of
bioterrorism.
         Much of the focus of the various research efforts has been directed to studying the
biology of the pathogens identified as potentially dangerous as bioterrorism agents, studying the
host response against such agents, developing vaccines against infectious diseases, evaluating the
therapeutics currently available and under investigation against such agents, and developing
diagnostics to identify signs and symptoms of threatening agents. Such efforts are laudable but,
given the large number of pathogens which have been identified as potentially available for
bioterrorism, these efforts have not yet been able to provide satisfactory responses for all possible
bioterrorism threats. Additionally, many of the pathogens identified as potentially dangerous as
agents of bioterrorism do not provide adequate economic incentives for the development of
therapeutic or preventive measures by industry. Moreover, even if preventive measures such as
vaccines were available for each pathogen which may be used in bioterrorism, the cost of
administering all such vaccines to the general population is prohibitive.
         Until convenient and effective treatments are available against every bioterrorism threat,
                                                 25

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
there exists a strong need for preventative, prophylactic or therapeutic treatments which can
prevent or reduce the risk of infection from pathogenic agents.
        The present invention provides such methods of prophylactic treatment. In one aspect, a
prophylactic treatment method is provided comprising administering a prophylactically effective
amount of the compounds of formula (I) to an individual in need of prophylactic treatment
against infection from one or more airborne pathogens.       A particular example of an airborne
pathogen is anthrax.
        In another aspect, a prophylactic treatment method is provided for reducing the risk of
infection from an airborne pathogen which can cause a disease in a human, said method
comprising administering an effective amount of the compounds of formula (I) to the lungs of the
human who may be at risk of infection from the airborne pathogen but is asymptomatic for the
disease, wherein the effective amount of a sodium channel blocker and osmolye are sufficient to
reduce the risk of infection in the human.      A particular example of an airborne pathogen is
anthrax.
        In another aspect, a post-exposure prophylactic treatment or therapeutic treatment method
is provided for treating infection from an airborne pathogen comprising administering an
effective amount of the compounds of formula (I) to the lungs of an individual in need of such
treatment against infection from an airborne pathogen. The pathogens which may be protected
against by the prophylactic post exposure, rescue and therapeutic treatment methods of the
invention include any pathogens which may enter the body through the mouth, nose or nasal
airways, thus proceeding into the lungs.     Typically, the pathogens will be airborne pathogens,
either naturally occurring or by aerosolization. The pathogens may be naturally occurring or may
have been introduced into the environment intentionally after aerosolization or other method of
introducing the pathogens into the environment.         Many pathogens which are not naturally
transmitted in the air have been or may be aerosolized for use in bioterrorism. The pathogens for
which the treatment of the invention may be useful includes, but is not limited to, category A, B
and C priority pathogens as set forth by the NIAID. These categories correspond generally to the
lists compiled by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). As set up by the CDC,
Category A agents are those that can be easily disseminated or transmitted person-to-person,
cause high mortality, with potential for major public health impact. Category B agents are next
in priority and include those that are moderately easy to disseminate and cause moderate
morbidity and low mortality.        Category C consists of emerging pathogens that could be
engineered for mass dissemination in the future because of their availability, ease of production
and dissemination and potential for high morbidity and mortality. Particular examples of these
                                                 26

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
pathogens are anthrax and plague. Additional pathogens which may be protected against or the
infection risk therefrom reduced include influenza viruses, rhinoviruses, adenoviruses and
respiratory syncytial viruses, and the like. A further pathogen which may be protected against is
the coronavirus which is believed to cause severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS).
        The present invention also relates to the use of sodium channel blockers of Formula I, or
a pharmaceutically       acceptable   salt  thereof, for preventing,   mitigating,  and/or  treating
deterministic health effects to the respiratory tract caused by exposure to radiological materials,
particularly respirable aerosols containing radionuclides from nuclear attacks, such as detonation
of radiological dispersal devices (RDD), or accidents, such as nuclear power plant disasters.     As
such, provided herein is a method for preventing, mitigating, and/or treating deterministic health
effects to the respiratory tract and/or other bodily organs caused by respirable aerosols containing
radionuclides in a recipient in need thereof, including in a human in need thereof , said method
comprising administering to said human an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
        A major concern associated with consequence management planning for exposures of
members of the public to respirable aerosols containing radionuclides from nuclear attacks, such
as detonation of radiological dispersal devices (RDD), or accidents, such as nuclear power plant
disasters is how to prevent, mitigate or treat potential deterministic health effects to the
respiratory tract, primarily the lung. It is necessary to have drugs, techniques and procedures,
and trained personnel prepared to manage and treat such highly internally contaminated
individuals.
        Research has been conducted to determine ways in which to prevent, mitigate or treat
potential damage to the respiratory tract and various organs in the body that is caused by
internally deposited radionuclides.       To date, most of the research attention has focused on
strategies designed to mitigate health effects from internally deposited radionuclides by
accelerating their excretion or removal. These strategies have focused on soluble chemical forms
that are capable of reaching the blood stream and are deposited at remote systemic sites specific
to a given radioelement.        Such approaches will not work in cases where the deposited
radionuclide is in relatively insoluble form. Studies have shown that many, if not most of the
physicochemical forms of dispersed radionuclides from RDDs, will be in relatively insoluble
form.
        The only method known to effectively reduce the radiation dose to the lungs from inhaled
insoluble radioactive aerosols is bronchoalveolar lavage or BAL.        This technique, which was
adapted from that already in use for the treatment of patients with alveolar proteinosis, has been
                                                   27

     WO 2014/099676                                                                PCT/US2013/075108
shown to be a safe, repeatable procedure, even when performed over an extended period of time.
Although there are variations in procedure, the basic method for BAL is to anaesthetize the
subject, followed by the slow introduction of isotonic saline into a single lobe of the lung until
the function residual capacity is reached. Additional volumes are then added and drained by
gravity.
The results of studies using BAL on animals indicate that about 40% of the deep lung content can
be removed by a reasonable sequence of BALs.              In some studies, there was considerable
variability among animals in the amount of radionuclide recovered.               The reasons for the
variability are currently not understood.
         Further, based on a study on animals, it is believed that a significant dose reduction from
BAL therapy results in mitigation of health effects due to inhalation of insoluble radionuclides.
In the study, adult dogs inhaled insoluble    14 4Ce-FAP  particles. Two groups of dogs were given
lung contents of 14Ce known to cause radiation pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis (about 2
MBq/kg body mass), with one group being treated with 10 unilateral lavages between 2 and 56
days after exposure, the other untreated.         A third group was exposed at a level of 1"Ce
comparable to that seen in the BAL-treated group after treatment (about 1 MBq/kg), but these
animals were untreated. All animals were allowed to live their lifespans, which extended to 16
years. Because there is variability in initial lung content of 14Ce among the dogs in each group,
the dose rates and cumulative doses for each group overlap. Nevertheless, the effect of BAL in
reducing the risk from pneumonitis/fibrosis was evident from the survival curves . In the
untreated dogs with lung contents of 1.5-2.5 MBq/kg, the mean survival time was 370  65 d.
For the treated dogs, the mean survival was 1270  240 d, which was statistically significantly
different. The third group, which received lung contents of        14Ce  of 0.6-1.4 MBq had a mean
survival time of 1800  230, which was not statistically different from the treated group. Equally
important to the increased survival, the dogs in the high-dose untreated group died from
deterministic effects to lung (pneumonitis/fibrosis) while the treated dogs did not. Instead, the
treated dogs, like the dogs in the low-dose untreated group, mostly had lung tumors
(hemangiosarcoma or carcinoma).            Therefore, the reduction in dose resulting from BAL
treatment appears to have produced biological effects in lung that were predictable based on the
radiation doses that the lungs received.
         Based on these results, it is believed that decreasing the residual radiological dose further
by any method or combination of methods for enhancing the clearance of particles from the lung
would further decrease the probability of health effects to lung. However, BAL is a procedure
that has many drawbacks.        BAL is a highly invasive procedure that must be performed at
                                                    28

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
specialized medical centers by trained pulmonologists. As such, a BAL procedure is expensive.
Given the drawbacks of BAL, it is not a treatment option that would be readily and immediately
available to persons in need of accelerated removal of radioactive particles, for example, in the
event of a nuclear attack. In the event of a nuclear attack or a nuclear accident, immediate and
relatively easily administered treatment for persons who have been exposed or who are at risk of
being exposed is needed. Sodium channel blockers administered as an inhalation aerosol have
been shown to restore hydration of airway surfaces. Such hydration of airway surfaces aids in
clearing accumulated mucus secretions and associated particulate matter from the lung. As such,
without being bound by any particular theory, it is believed that sodium channel blockers can be
used to accelerate the removal of radioactive particles from airway passages.
        As discussed above, the greatest risk to the lungs following a radiological attack, such as
a dirty bomb, results from the inhalation and retention of insoluble radioactive particles. As a
result of radioactive particle retention, the cumulative exposure to the lung is significantly
increased, ultimately resulting     in pulmonary     fibrosis/pneumonitis   and potentially death.
Insoluble particles cannot be systemically cleared by chelating agents because these particles are
not in solution.   To date, the physical removal of particulate matter through BAL is the only
therapeutic regimen shown to be effective at mitigating radiation-induced lung disease.          As
discussed above, BAL is not a realistic treatment solution for reducing the effects of radioactive
particles that have been inhaled into the body. As such, it is desirable to provide a therapeutic
regimen that effectively aids in clearing radioactive particles from airway passages and that,
unlike BAL, is relatively simple to administer and scalable in a large-scale radiation exposure
scenario. In addition, it is also desirable that the therapeutic regimen be readily available to a
number of people in a relatively short period of time.
        In an aspect of the present invention, a method for preventing, mitigating, and/or treating
deterministic health effects to the respiratory tract and/or other bodily organs caused by
respirable aerosols containing radionuclides comprises administering an effective amount of a
sodium channel blocker of Formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to an
individual in need. In a feature of this aspect, the sodium channel blocker is administered in
conjunction with an osmolyte. With further regard to this feature, the osmolyte is hypertonic
saline (HS). In a further feature, the sodium channel blocker and the osmolyte are administered
in conjunction with an ion transport modulator.       With further regard to this feature, the ion
transport modulator may be selected from the group consisting of P-agonists, CFTR potentiators,
purinergic receptor agonists, lubiprostones, and protease inhibitors.     In another feature of this
aspect, the radionuclides are selected from the group consisting of Colbalt-60, Cesium-137,
                                                 29

     WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
Iridium-192, Radium-226, Phospohrus-32, Strontium-89 and 90, Iodine-125, Thallium-201,
Lead-210, Thorium-234, Uranium-238, Plutonium, Cobalt-58, Chromium-51, Americium, and
Curium. In a further feature, the radionuclides are from a radioactive disposal device. In yet
another feature, the sodium channel blocker or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered in an aerosol suspension of respirable particles which the individual inhales. In an
additional feature, the sodium channel blocker or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is
administered post-exposure to the radionuclides.
COMPOSITIONS
        While it is possible for a compound of the invention to be administered alone, in some
embodiments it is preferable to present it in the form of a composition, particularly a
pharmaceutical composition (formulation).            Thus, in another aspect, the invention provides
compositions, and particularly pharmaceutical compositions (such as an inhalable pharmaceutical
composition) comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound of the invention as
an active ingredient, and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent or carrier. The term
"active ingredient" as employed herein refers to any compound of the invention or combination
of two or more compounds of the invention in a pharmaceutical composition. Also provided are
specific embodiments in which a pharmaceutical composition comprises a pharmaceutically
effective amount of a compound of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), or a
pharmaceutically     acceptable      salt  thereof.,   independently    or  in   combination,   and   a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent or carrier.
        In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a pharmaceutically
effective amount of a compound of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof., independently or in combination, in a diluent.            In
separate embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises a pharmaceutically effective
amount of a compound of Formulas (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in hypertonic saline, sterile water, and hypertonic
saline, respectively, wherein the saline concentration can be as described herein.              In one
embodiment the saline concentration is 0.17% w/v and in another it is 2.8% w/v.
        Also provided is a kit comprising i) a pharmaceutically effective amount of a compound
of Formula (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof; ii) one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, carriers, or diluents; iii)
instructions for administering the compound of group i) and the excipients, carriers, or diluents of
group ii) to a subject in need thereof; and; iv) a container. A subject in need thereof includes any
                                                      30

     WO 2014/099676                                                                PCT/US2013/075108
subject in need of the methods of treatment described herein, particularly including a human
subject in need thereof. Further embodiments also comprise an aerosolization device selected
from the group of a nebulizer, including vibrating mesh nebulizers and jet nebulizers, a dry
powder inhaler, including active and passive dry powder inhalers, and a metered dose inhaler,
including pressurized, dry powder, and soft mist metered dose inhalers.
        In one embodiment a kit comprises i) from about 10 ng to about 10 mg of a compound of
Formula (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII),or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, per dose; ii) from about 1 to about 5 mL of diluent per dose; iii) instructions for
administering the compound of group i) and the diluent of group ii) to a subject in need thereof;
and; iv) a container. In a further embodiment, the diluent is from about 1 to about 5 mL of a
saline solution, as described herein, per dose. In a further embodiment, the diluent is from about
1 to about 5 mL of a hypotonic saline solution per dose. In another embodiment, the diluent is
from about 1 to about 5 mL of a hypertonic saline solution per dose. In a still further
embodiment, the diluent is from about 1 to about 5 mL of sterile water per dose.
        Also provided is a kit comprising i) a solution comprising a pharmaceutically effective
amount of a compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII),or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent; iii)
instructions for administering the solution of group i) to a subject in need thereof; and iii) a
container.
        Also provided is a kit comprising i) a solution comprising from about 10 ng to about 10
mg of a compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), ,or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof; dissolved in a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent; iii)
instructions for administering the solution of group i) to a subject in need thereof; and iii) a
container. In a further embodiment, the diluent is from about 1 to about 5 mL of a saline
solution, as described herein, per dose.
        Another embodiment comprises a kit comprising i) a pharmaceutically effective amount
of a compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof; in a dry powder formulation suitable for inhalation ii) optionally, one or
more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients or carriers suitable for inhalation; iii) instructions
for administering the compound of group i) and the excipients or carriers of group ii) to a subject
in need thereof; and; iv) a container. In a further embodiment, the kit also comprises a dry
powder inhaler suitable for delivering the dry powder formulation to a recipient. The dry powder
inhaler may be, in additional embodiments, a single-dose inhaler or a multi-dose inhaler.
                                                     31

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
         Further embodiments of each of the kits described herein includes those in which the
concentration of the compound of Formula (I), (Ia), (II), (III), (IV), (V), (VI), and (VII),or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, per dose, is one of the effective dose ranges described
herein, including a) from about 0.1 pg to about 1,000 pg; b) from about 0.5 pg to about 0.5 mg;
and c) from about 0.5 pg to about 50 pg.
         For each of the kits described above there is an additional embodiment in which the
diluent is hypertonic saline of the concentrations described herein. In another embodiment for
each kit the diluent is hypotonic saline of the concentrations described herein. In a further
embodiment for each kit, the diluent is sterile water suitable for inhalation.
         The pharmaceutically acceptable excipient(s), diluent(s) or carrier(s) must be acceptable
in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious
to the recipient thereof. Generally, the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient(s), diluent(s) or
carrier(s) employed in the pharmaceutical formulation are "non-toxic" meaning that it/they is/are
deemed safe for consumption in the amount delivered in the formulation and "inert" meaning that
it/they does/do not appreciable react with or result in an undesired effect on the therapeutic
activity of the active ingredient(s).        Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, diluents and
carriers are conventional in the art and may be selected using conventional techniques, based
upon the desired route of administration.        See, REMINGTON'S, PHARMACEUTICAL SCIENCES,
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 21"t Ed (May 1, 2005).              Preferably, the pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient(s), diluent(s) or carrier(s) are Generally Regarded As Safe (GRAS)
according to the FDA.
         Pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention include those suitable for oral
administration; parenteral administration, including subcutaneous, intradermal, intramuscular,
intravenous and intraarticular; topical administration, including topical administration to the skin,
eyes, ears, etc; vaginal or rectal administration; and administration to the respiratory tract,
including the nasal cavities and sinuses, oral and extrathoracic airways, and the lungs, including
by use of aerosols which may be delivered by means of various types of dry powder inhalers,
pressurized metered dose inhalers, softmist inhalers, nebulizers, or insufflators.          The most
suitable route of administration may depend upon, several factors including the patient and the
condition or disorder being treated.
         The formulations may be presented in unit dosage form or in bulk form as for example in
the case of formulations to be metered by an inhaler and may be prepared by any of the methods
well known in the art of pharmacy. Generally, the methods include the step of bringing the active
ingredient into association with the carrier, diluent or excipient and optionally one or more
                                                  32

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
accessory ingredients.    In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately
bringing into association the active ingredient with one or more liquid carriers, diluents or
excipients or finely divided solid carriers, diluents or excipients, or both, and then, if necessary,
shaping the product into the desired formulation.
        In one preferred embodiment, the composition is an inhalable pharmaceutical composition
which is suitable for inhalation and delivery to the endobronchial space.              Typically, such
composition is in the form of an aerosol comprising particles for delivery using a nebulizer,
pressurized metered dose inhaler (MDI), softmist inhaler, or dry powder inhaler (DPI).             The
aerosol formulation used in the methods of the present invention may be a liquid (e.g., solution)
suitable for administration by a nebulizer, softmist inhaler, or MDI, or a dry powder suitable for
administration by an MDI or DPI.
        Aerosols    used to administer     medicaments    to the respiratory      tract are typically
polydisperse; that is they are comprised of particles of many different sizes. The particle size
distribution is typically described by the Mass Median Aerodynamic Diameter (MMAD) and the
Geometric Standard Deviation (GSD). For optimum drug delivery to the endobronchial space the
MMAD is in the range from about 1 to about 10 pm and preferably from about 1 to about 5 pm,
and the GSD is less than 3, and preferably less than about 2. Aerosols having a MMAD above 10
pm are generally too large when inhaled to reach the lungs. Aerosols with a GSD greater than
about 3 are not preferred for lung delivery as they deliver a high percentage of the medicament to
the oral cavity. To achieve these particle sizes in powder formulation, the particles of the active
ingredient may be size reduced using conventional techniques such as micronisation or spray
drying.   Non-limiting examples of other processes or techniques that can be used to produce
respirable particles include spray drying, precipitation, supercritical fluid, and freeze drying. The
desired fraction may be separated out by air classification or sieving. In one embodiment, the
particles will be crystalline.   For liquid formulations, the particle size is determined by the
selection of a particular model of nebulizer, softmist inhaler, or MDI.
        Aerosol particle size distributions are determined using devices well known in the art. For
example a multi-stage Anderson cascade impactor or other suitable method such as those
specifically cited within the US Pharmacopoeia Chapter 601 as characterizing devices for
aerosols emitted from metered-dose and dry powder inhalers.
        Dry powder compositions for topical delivery to the lung by inhalation may be formulated
without excipient or carrier and instead including only the active ingredients in a dry powder
form having a suitable particle size for inhalation. Dry powder compositions may also contain a
mix of the active ingredient and a suitable powder base (carrier/diluent/excipient substance) such
                                                  33

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
as mono-, di- or poly-saccharides (e.g., lactose or starch).       Lactose is typically the preferred
excipient for dry powder formulations.       When a solid excipient such as lactose is employed,
generally the particle size of the excipient will be much greater than the active ingredient to aid
the dispersion of the formulation in the inhaler.
        Non-limiting examples of dry powder inhalers include reservoir multi-dose inhalers, pre
metered multi-dose inhalers, capsule-based inhalers and single-dose disposable inhalers.            A
reservoir inhaler contains a large number of doses (e.g. 60) in one container. Prior to inhalation,
the patient actuates the inhaler which causes the inhaler to meter one dose of medicament from
the reservoir and prepare it for inhalation. Examples of reservoir DPIs include but are not limited
to the Turbohaler@ by AstraZeneca and the ClickHaler@ by Vectura.
        In a pre-metered multi-dose inhaler, each individual dose has been manufactured in a
separate container, and actuation of the inhaler prior to inhalation causes a new dose of drug to be
released from its container and prepared for inhalation.       Examples of multidose DPI inhalers
include but are not limited to Diskus@ by GSK, Gyrohaler@ by Vectura, and Prohaler@ by
Valois. During inhalation, the inspiratory flow of the patient accelerates the powder out of the
device and into the oral cavity. For a capsule inhaler, the formulation is in a capsule and stored
outside the inhaler. The patient puts a capsule in the inhaler, actuates the inhaler (punctures the
capsule), then inhales.    Examples include the RotohalerTm (GlaxoSmithKline), Spinhaler Tm
(Novartis), HandiHalerTm (IB), TurboSpin Tm (PH&T). With single-dose disposable inhalers, the
patient actuates the inhaler to prepare it for inhalation, inhales, then disposes of the inhaler and
packaging.    Examples include the Twincer t m (U Groningen), OneDose Tm (GFE), and Manta
Inhalertm (Manta Devices).
        Generally, dry powder inhalers utilize turbulent flow characteristics of the powder path to
cause the excipient-drug aggregates to disperse, and the particles of active ingredient are
deposited in the lungs.     However, certain dry powder inhalers utilize a cyclone dispersion
chamber to produce particles of the desired respirable size. In a cyclone dispersion chamber, the
drug enters a coin shaped dispersion chamber tangentially so that the air path and drug move
along the outer circular wall. As the drug formulation moves along this circular wall it bounces
around and agglomerates are broken apart by impact forces.          The air path spirals towards the
center of the chamber exiting vertically. Particles that have small enough aerodynamic sizes can
follow the air path and exit the chamber. In effect, the dispersion chamber works like a small jet
mill. Depending on the specifics of the formulation, large lactose particles may be added to the
formulation to aid in the dispersion through impact with the API particles.
        The Twincer tm single-dose disposable inhaler appears to operate using a coin-shaped
                                                  34

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
cyclone dispersion chamber referred to as an "air classifier." See, U.S. Published Patent
Application No. 2006/0237010 to Rijksuniversiteit Groningen.              Papers published by the
University of Groningen, have stated that a 60 mg dose of pure micronized colistin sulfomethate
could be effectively delivered as an inhalable dry powder utilizing this technology.
         In preferred embodiments, the aerosol formulation is delivered as a dry powder using a
dry powder inhaler wherein the particles emitted from the inhaler have an MMAD in the range of
about 1 pm       to about 5 pm and a GSD about less than 2.
         Examples of suitable dry powder inhalers and dry powder dispersion devices for use in
the delivery of compounds and compositions according to the present invention include but are
not limited to those disclosed           in US7520278;     US7322354;    US7246617;     US7231920;
US7219665; US7207330; US6880555; US5,522,385; US6845772; US6637431; US6329034;
US5,458,135; US4,805,811; and U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2006/0237010.
         In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical formulation according to the invention is a dry
powder for inhalation which is formulated for delivery by a Diskus@-type device. The Diskus@
device comprises an elongate strip formed from a base sheet having a plurality of recesses spaced
along its length and a lid sheet hermetically but peelably sealed thereto to define a plurality of
containers, each container having therein an inhalable formulation containing a predetermined
amount of active ingredient either alone or in admixture with one or more carriers or excipients
(e.g., lactose) and/or other therapeutically active agents.     Preferably, the strip is sufficiently
flexible to be wound into a roll. The lid sheet and base sheet will preferably have leading end
portions which are not sealed to one another and at least one of the leading end portions is
constructed to be attached to a winding means. Also, preferably the hermetic seal between the
base and lid sheets extends over their whole width. To prepare the dose for inhalation, the lid
sheet may preferably be peeled from the base sheet in a longitudinal direction from a first end of
the base sheet.
         In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical formulation according to the invention is a dry
powder for inhalation which is formulated for delivery using a single-dose disposable inhaler, and
particularly the TwincerTm inhaler. The TwincerTm inhaler comprises a foil laminate blister with
one or more recesses and a lid sheet hermetically but peelably sealed thereto to define a plurality
of containers. Each container has therein an inhalable formulation containing a predetermined
amount of active ingredient(s) either alone or in admixture with one or more carriers or excipients
(e.g., lactose).    The lid sheet will preferably have a leading end portion which is constructed to
project from the body of the inhaler. The patient would operate the device and thereby administer
                                                   35

     WO 2014/099676                                                                PCT/US2013/075108
the aerosol formulation by 1) removing the outer packaging overwrap, 2) pulling the foil tab to
uncover the drug in the blister and 3) inhaling the drug from the blister.
        In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical formulation according to the invention is a
dry powder for inhalation wherein the dry powder is formulated into microparticles as described
in PCT Publication No. W02009/015286               or W02007/114881,       both to NexBio.        Such
microparticles are generally formed by adding a counter ion to a solution containing a compound
of the invention in a solvent, adding an antisolvent to the solution; and gradually cooling the
solution to a temperature below about 25'C, to form a composition containing microparticles
comprising the compound. The microparticles comprising the compound may then be separated
from the solution by any suitable means such as sedimentation, filtration or lyophillization.
Suitable counterions, solvents and antisolvents for preparing microparticles of the compounds of
the invention are described in W02009/015286.
        In another embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition according to the invention is
delivered as a dry powder using a metered dose inhaler. Non-limiting examples of metered dose
inhalers and devices include those disclosed in US5,261,538; US5,544,647; US5,622,163;
US4,955,371; US3,565,070; US3,361306 and US6,116,234 and US7,108,159.                   In a preferred
embodiment, a compound of the invention is delivered as a dry powder using a metered dose
inhaler wherein the emitted particles have an MMAD that is in the range of about 1 pm to about 5
pm and a GSD that is less than about 2.
        Liquid aerosol formulations for delivery to the endobronchial space or lung by inhalation
may for example be formulated as aqueous solutions or suspensions or as aerosols delivered from
pressurized packs, such as metered dose inhalers, with the use of suitable liquefied propellants,
softmist inhalers, or nebulizers. Such aerosol compositions suitable for inhalation can be either a
suspension or a solution and generally contain the active ingredient(s) together with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent (e.g., water (distilled or sterile), saline, hypertonic
saline, or ethanol) and optionally one or more other therapeutically active agents.
        Aerosol compositions for delivery by pressurized metered dose inhalers typically further
comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable propellant.          Examples of such propellants include
fluorocarbon    or hydrogen-containing     chlorofluorocarbon    or mixtures     thereof, particularly
hydrofluoroalkanes,          e.g.,        dichlorodifluoromethane,           trichlorofluoromethane,
dichlorotetrafluoroethane,    especially   1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane,   1,1,1,2,3,3,3,-heptafluoro-n
propane or a mixture thereof. The aerosol composition may be excipient free or may optionally
contain additional formulation excipients well known in the art such as surfactants e.g., oleic acid
or lecithin and cosolvents e.g., ethanol.   Pressurized formulations will generally be retained in a
                                                  36

     WO 2014/099676                                                                  PCT/US2013/075108
canister (e.g., an aluminum canister) closed with a valve (e.g., a metering valve) and fitted into an
actuator provided with a mouthpiece.
         In another embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition according to the invention is
delivered as a liquid using a metered dose inhaler. Non-limiting examples of metered dose
inhalers and devices include those disclosed in US Patent Nos. 6,253,762, 6,413,497, 7,601,336,
7,481,995, 6,743,413, and 7,105,152. In a preferred embodiment, a compound of the invention is
delivered as a dry powder using a metered dose inhaler wherein the emitted particles have an
MMAD that is in the range of about Ipm to about 5 pm and a GSD that is less than about 2.
         In one embodiment the aerosol formulation is suitable for aerosolization by a jet
nebulizer, or ultrasonic nebulizer including static and vibrating porous plate nebulizers. Liquid
aerosol formulations for nebulization may be generated by solubilizing or reconstituting a solid
particle formulation or may be formulated with an aqueous vehicle with the addition of agents
such as acid or alkali, buffer salts, and isotonicity adjusting agents. They may be sterilized by in
process techniques such as filtration, or terminal processes such as heating in an autoclave or
gamma irradiation. They may also be presented in non-sterile form.
         Patients can be sensitive to the pH, osmolality, and ionic content of a nebulized solution.
Therefore these parameters should be adjusted to be compatible with the active ingredient and
tolerable to patients. The most preferred solution or suspension of active ingredient will contain
a chloride concentration >30 mM at pH 4.5-7.4, preferably 5.0-5.5, and an osmolality of from
about 800-1600mOsm/kg.         The pH of the solution can be controlled by either titration with
common acids (hydrochloric acid or sulfuric acid, for example) or bases (sodium hydroxide, for
example) or via the use of buffers. Commonly used buffers include citrate buffers, such as citric
acid/sodium citrate buffers, acetate buffers, such as acetic acid/sodium acetate buffers, and
phosphate buffers. Buffer strengths can range from 2mM to 50mM.
         Useful acetate, phosphate, and citrate buffers include sodium acetate, sodium acetate
trihydrate, ammonium acetate, potassium acetate, sodium phosphate, sodium phosphate dibasic,
disodium hydrogen phosphate, potassium dihydrogen phosphate, potassium hydrogen phosphate,
potassium phosphate, sodium citrate, and potassium citrate. Other buffers which may be utilized
include sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, aminomethylpropanol,
tromethamine, tetrahydroxypropyl ethylenediamine, citric acid, acetic acid, hydroxytricarboxylic
acid or a salt thereof, such as a citrate or sodium citrate salt thereof, lactic acid, and salts of lactic
acid including sodium lactate, potassium lactate, lithium lactate, calcium lactate, magnesium
lactate, barium lactate, aluminum lactate, zinc lactate, silver lactate, copper lactate, iron lactate,
                                                   37

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
manganese lactate, ammonium lactate, monoethanolamine, diethanolamine, triethanolamine,
diisopropanolamine, as well as combinations thereof, and the like.
        Such formulations may be administered using commercially available nebulizers or other
atomizer that can break the formulation into particles or droplets suitable for deposition in the
respiratory tract. Non-limiting examples of nebulizers which may be employed for the aerosol
delivery of a composition of the invention include pneumatic jet nebulizers, vented or breath
enhanced jet nebulizers, or ultrasonic nebulizers including static or vibrating porous plate
nebulizers.   Commercially available nebulizers include the Aeroneb@ Go nebulizer (Aerogen)
and the eFlow nebulizer (Pari Pharma).
        A jet nebulizer utilizes a high velocity stream of air blasting up through a column of water
to generate droplets. Particles unsuitable for inhalation impact on walls or aerodynamic baffles.
A vented or breath enhanced nebulizer works in essentially the same way as a jet nebulizer
except that inhaled air passes through the primary droplet generation area to increase the output
rate of the nebulizer while the patient inhales.
        In an ultrasonic nebulizer, vibration of a piezoelectric crystal creates surface instabilities
in the drug reservoir that cause droplets to be formed. In porous plate nebulizers pressure fields
generated by sonic energy force liquid through the mesh pores where it breaks into droplets by
Rayleigh breakup. The sonic energy may be supplied by a vibrating horn or plate driven by a
piezoelectric crystal, or by the mesh itself vibrating. Non-limiting examples of atomizers include
any single or twin fluid atomizer or nozzle that produces droplets of an appropriate size. A single
fluid atomizer works by forcing a liquid through one or more holes, where the jet of liquid breaks
up into droplets. Twin fluid atomizers work by either forcing both a gas and liquid through one
or more holes, or by impinging a jet of liquid against another jet of either liquid or gas.
        The choice of nebulizer which aerosolizes the aerosol formulation is important in the
administration of the active ingredient(s). Different nebulizers have differing efficiencies based
their design and operation principle and are sensitive to the physical and chemical properties of
the formulation.     For example, two formulations with different surface tensions may have
different particle size distributions. Additionally, formulation properties such as pH, osmolality,
and permeant ion content can affect tolerability of the medication, so preferred embodiments
conform to certain ranges of these properties.
        In a preferred embodiment, the formulation for nebulization is delivered to the
endobronchial space as an aerosol having an MMAD between about 1 pm                 and about 5 pm
and a GSD less than 2 using an appropriate nebulizer. To be optimally effective and to avoid
upper respiratory and systemic side effects, the aerosol should not have a MMAD greater than
                                                   38

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
about 5 pm and should not have a GSD greater than about 2.              If an aerosol has an MMAD
larger than about 5 pm or a GSD greater than about 2          a large percentage of the dose may be
deposited in the upper airways decreasing the amount of drug delivered to the desired site in the
lower respiratory tract. If the MMAD of the aerosol is smaller than about 1 pm           then a large
percentage of the particles may remain suspended in the inhaled air and may then be exhaled
during expiration.
        The compounds of the invention may also be administered by transbronchoscopic lavage.
        Formulations suitable for oral administration may be presented as discrete units such as
capsules, cachets or tablets, each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient; as a
powder or granules; as a solution or suspension in an aqueous liquid or a non-aqueous liquid; or
as an oil-in-water liquid emulsion or a water-in-oil liquid emulsion. The active ingredient may
also be presented as a sachet, bolus, electuary or paste.
        A tablet may be made by compression or molding, optionally with one or more accessory
ingredients.   Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the
active ingredient in a free-flowing form such as a powder or granules, optionally mixed with a
binders, lubricant, inert diluent, surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made
by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered compound moistened with an inert
liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and may be formulated so as to
provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therein.
        Formulations for topical administration in the mouth, for example buccally or
sublingually, include lozenges, comprising the active ingredient in a flavored base such as
sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, and pastilles comprising the active ingredient in a base such as
gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia.
        Formulations for parenteral administration include aqueous and non-aqueous sterile
injection solutions which may contain anti-oxidants, buffers, bacteriostats and solutes which
render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient; and aqueous and non
aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents. The
formulations may be presented in unit-dose or multi-dose containers, for example sealed
ampoules and vials, and may be stored in a freeze-dried lyophilizedd) condition requiring only the
addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example saline or water-for-injection, immediately prior
to use.    Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be prepared from sterile
powders, granules and tablets of the kind previously described.
        Oral fluids such as solutions, syrups and elixirs can be prepared in dosage unit form so
that a given quantity contains a predetermined amount of the active ingredient. Syrups can be
                                                  39

    WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
prepared by dissolving the active ingredient in a suitably flavored aqueous solution, while elixirs
are prepared through the use of a pharmaceutically acceptable alcoholic vehicle. Suspensions can
be formulated by dispersing the active ingredient in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle.
Solubilizers and emulsifiers such as ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols and polyoxy ethylene sorbitol
ethers, preservatives, flavor additive such as peppermint oil or natural sweeteners or saccharin or
other artificial sweeteners, and the like can also be incorporated into oral liquid compositions.
        Liposome delivery systems such as small unilamellar vesicles, large unilamellar vesicles
and multilamellar vesicles may also be employed as delivery means for the compounds of the
invention.    Liposomes may be formed from a variety of phospholipids such as cholesterol,
stearylamine and phosphatidylcholines.
        Pharmaceutical compositions for topical administration may be formulated as ointments,
creams,    suspensions,   lotions, powders,    solutions, pastes, gels,    sprays,  aerosols or oils.
Compositions designed for the treatment of the eyes or other external tissues, for example the
mouth and skin, may be applied as a topical ointment or cream. When formulated as an ointment,
the active ingredient may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water-miscible ointment base.
Alternatively, the active ingredient may be formulated in a cream with an oil-in-water cream base
or a water-in-oil base.
        Other compositions designed for topical administration to the eyes or ears include eye
drops and ear drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier,
such as for example an aqueous solvent, including saline.
        Compositions designed for nasal administration include aerosols, solutions, suspensions,
sprays, mists and drops. Aerosolable formulations for nasal administration may be formulated in
much the same ways as aerosolable formulations for inhalation with the condition that particles of
non-respirable size will be preferred in formulations for nasal administration. Typically, particles
of about 5 microns in size, up to the size of visible droplets may be employed. Thus, for nasal
administration, a particle size in the range of 10-500 pm may be used to ensure retention in the
nasal cavity.
        Transdermal patches may also be employed, which are designed to remain in contact with
the epidermis of the patient for an extended period of time and promote the absorption of the
active ingredient there through.
        Compositions     for   vaginal   or rectal    administration   include   ointments,  creams,
suppositories and enemas, all of which may be formulated using conventional techniques.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method of promoting hydration of mucosal
surfaces or restoring mucosal defense in a human in need thereof, comprising administering to
                                                   40

      WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
the human a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the invention, wherein said
compound is administered in an effective amount. In one preferred embodiment, the method
comprises administering the pharmaceutical composition as an inhalable composition comprising
an amount of a compound of the invention that is sufficient to achieve dissolved concentration of
the compound on the airway surfaces of from about 10-9, 10-8, or 10-7 to about 10-4,10-1, 10-2, or
 10-1 Moles/liter, more preferably from about 10- 9 to about 104 Moles/liter.
         In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating any one of: a disease
associated with reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to conditions other than
cystic fibrosis),    acute bronchitis,    chronic bronchitis,  post-viral cough, cystic fibrosis,
emphysema, pneumonia, panbronchiolitis, transplant-associate bronchiolitis, and ventilator
associated tracheobronchitis or preventing ventilator-associated pneumonia in a human in need
thereof, comprising administering to the human a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
compound of the invention, wherein said compound is administered in an effective amount. In
one preferred embodiment, the method comprises administering the pharmaceutical composition
as an inhalable composition comprising an amount of a compound of the invention that is
sufficient to achieve dissolved concentration of the compound on the airway surfaces of from
about 10-9, 10-8, or 10-7 to about 10-4,10-1, 10-2, or 10-1 Moles/liter, more preferably from about
 10-9 to about 10-4 Moles/liter.
         In another aspect, the invention provides a method of treating any one of dry mouth
(xerostomia), dry skin, vaginal dryness, sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration, including
nasal dehydration brought on by administering dry oxygen,             dry eye or Sjogren's disease,
promoting ocular or corneal hydration, treating distal intestinal obstruction syndrome, treating
otitis media, primary ciliary diskinesia, distal intestinal obstruction syndrome, esophagitis,
constipation, or chronic diverticulitis in a human in need thereof, comprising administering to the
human a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the invention, wherein said
compound is administered in an effective amount.
         Preferred unit dosage formulations for the compounds of the invention are those
containing an effective amount of the active ingredient or an appropriate fraction thereof.
         It should be understood that in addition to the ingredients particularly mentioned above,
the formulations of this invention may include other agents conventional in the art having regard
to the type of formulation in question for example those suitable for oral administration may
include flavoring agents.
                                                  41

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
         The compositions of the present invention may be formulated for immediate, controlled
or sustained release as desired for the particular condition being treated and the desired route of
administration.    For example, a controlled release formulation for oral administration may be
desired for the treatment of constipation in order to maximize delivery of the active agent to
colon.    Such formulations and suitable excipients for the same are well known in the art of
pharmacy. Because the free base of the compound is generally less soluble in aqueous solutions
than the salt, compositions comprising a free base of a compound of Formula I may be employed
to provide more sustained release of active agent delivered by inhalation to the lungs. An active
agent present in the lungs in particulate form which has not dissolved into solution is not
available to induce a physiological response, but serves as a depot of bioavailable drug which
gradually dissolves into solution. As another example, a formulation may employ both a free
base and salt form of a compound of the invention to provide both immediate release and
sustained release of the active ingredient for dissolution into the mucus secretions of, for
example, the nose.
COMBINATIONS
         The compounds of the invention may be formulated and/or used in combination with
other therapeutically active agents. Examples of other therapeutically active agents which may
be formulated or used in combination with the compounds of the invention include but are not
limited to osmolytes, anti-inflammatory agents, anticholinergic agents, P-agonists (including
selective    2 -agonists),   P2Y2 receptor agonists, peroxisome proliferator-activated     receptor
(PPAR) delta agonists, other epithelial sodium channel blockers (ENaC receptor blockers), cystic
fibrosis   transmembrane       conductance    regulator (CFTR)    modulators,   kinase   inhibitors,
antiinfective agents, antihistamines, non-antibiotic anti-inflammatory macrolides, elastase and
protease inhibitors, and mucus or mucin modifying agents, such as surfactants. In addition, for
cardiovascular indications, the compounds of the invention may be used in combination with beta
blockers, ACE inhibitors, HMGCoA reductase inhibitors, calcium channel blockers and other
cardiovascular agents.
         The present invention thus provides, as another aspect, a composition comprising an
effective amount of a compound of the invention and one or more other therapeutically active
agents selected from osmolytes, anti-inflammatory agents, anticholinergic agents, P-agonists
(including selective     2 -agonists), P2Y2 receptor agonists, PPAR delta agonists, ENaC receptor
blockers, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) modulators, kinase
inhibitors, antiinfective agents, antihistamines, non-antibiotic anti-inflammatory macrolides,
                                                   42

      WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
elastase and protease inhibitors, and mucus or mucin modifying agents, such as surfactants. The
present invention thus provides, as another aspect, a composition comprising an effective amount
of a compound of the invention and one or more other therapeutically active agents selected from
beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, HMGCoA reductase inhibitors, and calcium channel blockers.
Use of the compounds of the invention in combination with one or more other therapeutically
active agents (particularly osmolytes) may lower the dose of the compound of the invention that
is required to sufficiently hydrate mucosal surfaces, thereby reducing the potential for undesired
side-effects attributable to systemic blocking of sodium channels such as for example in the
kidneys.
        "Osmolytes" according to the present invention are molecules or compounds that are
osmotically active. "Osmotically active" molecules and compounds are membrane-impermeable
(i.e., essentially non-absorbable) on the airway or pulmonary epithelial surface. The terms
"airway surface" and "pulmonary surface," as used herein, include pulmonary airway surfaces
such as the bronchi and bronchioles, alveolar surfaces, and nasal and sinus surfaces.      Suitable
osmolytes include ionic osmolytes (i.e., salts), and non-ionic osmolytes (i.e., sugars, sugar
alcohols, and organic osmolytes).      In general, osmolytes (both ionic and non-ionic) used in
combination with the compounds of the invention are preferably osmolytes that do not promote,
or in fact deter or retard bacterial growth. Osmolytes suitable for use in the present invention
may be in racemic form or in the form of an enantiomer, diastereomer, tautomer, polymorph or
pseudopolymorph.
        Examples of ionic osmolytes useful in the present invention include any salt of a
pharmaceutically acceptable anion and a pharmaceutically acceptable cation. Preferably, either
(or both) of the anion and cation are osmotically active and not subject to rapid active transport,
in relation to the airway surfaces to which they are administered. Such compounds include but
are not limited to anions and cations that are contained in FDA approved commercially marketed
salts, see, e.g., Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, Vol. II, pg. 1457 (19f Ed.
 1995), and can be used in any combination as known in the art.
         Specific examples of pharmaceutically acceptable osmotically active anions include but
are not limited to, acetate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bicarbonate, bitartrate, bromide, calcium
edetate, camsylate (camphorsulfonate), carbonate, chloride, citrate, dihydrochloride, edetate,
edisylate   (1,2-ethanedisulfonate),  estolate  (lauryl sulfate), esylate (1,2-ethanedisulfonate),
fumarate, gluceptate, gluconate, glutamate, glycollylarsanilate (p-glycollamidophenylarsonate),
hexylresorcinate,     hydrabamine     (NN'-Di(dehydroabietyl)ethylenediamine),       hydrobromide,
hydrochloride, hydroxynaphthoate, iodide, isethionate, lactate, lactobionate, malate, maleate,
                                                  43

     WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
mandelate, mesylate, methylbromide, methylnitrate, methylsulfate, mucate, napsylate, nitrate,
nitrite, pamoate      (embonate),  pantothenate,    phosphate    or diphosphate,     polygalacturonate,
salicylate,    stearate,   subacetate,   succinate,    sulfate,    tannate,   tartrate,  teoclate   (8
chlorotheophyllinate), triethiodide, bicarbonate, etc.     Preferred anions include chloride, sulfate,
nitrate, gluconate, iodide, bicarbonate, bromide, and phosphate.
         Specific examples of pharmaceutically acceptable osmotically active cations include but
are not limited to, organic cations         such as benzathine        (NN'-dibenzylethylenediamine),
chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolamine, ethylenediamine, meglumine (N-methyl D-glucamine),
procaine, D-lysine, L-lysine, D-arginine, L-arginine, triethylammonium, N-methyl D-glycerol,
and the like; and metallic cations such as aluminum, calcium, lithium, magnesium, potassium,
sodium, zinc, iron, ammonium, and the like.          Preferred organic cations include 3-carbon, 4
carbon, 5-carbon and 6-carbon organic cations.         Preferred cations include sodium, potassium,
choline, lithium, meglumine, D-lysine, ammonium, magnesium, and calcium.
         Specific examples of ionic osmolytes that may be used in combination with a compound
of the invention include but are not limited to, sodium chloride (particularly hypertonic saline),
potassium chloride, choline chloride, choline iodide, lithium chloride, meglumine chloride, L
lysine chloride, D-lysine chloride, ammonium chloride, potassium sulfate, potassium nitrate,
potassium gluconate, potassium iodide, ferric chloride, ferrous chloride, potassium bromide, and
combinations of any two or more of the foregoing. In one embodiment, the present invention
provides a combination of a compound of the invention and two different osmotically active
salts. When different salts are used, one of the anion or cation may be the same among the
differing salts. Hypertonic saline is a preferred ionic osmolyte for use in combination with the
compounds of the invention.
         Non-ionic osmolytes include sugars, sugar-alcohols, and organic osmolytes. Sugars and
sugar-alcohols useful as osmolytes in the present invention include but are not limited to           3
carbon sugars (e.g., glycerol, dihydroxyacetone); 4-carbon sugars (e.g., both the D and L forms
of erythrose, threose, and erythrulose); 5-carbon sugars (e.g., both the D and L forms of ribose,
arabinose, xylose, lyxose, psicose, fructose, sorbose, and tagatose); and 6-carbon sugars (e.g.,
both the D and L forms of altose, allose, glucose, mannose, gulose, idose, galactose, and talose,
and the D and L forms of allo-heptulose, allo-hepulose, gluco-heptulose, manno-heptulose, gulo
heptulose, ido-heptulose, galacto-heptulose, talo-heptulose).         Additional sugars useful in the
practice of the present invention include raffinose, raffinose series oligosaccharides, and
stachyose.    Both the D and L forms of the reduced form of each sugar/sugar alcohol are also
suitable for the present invention.    For example, glucose, when reduced, becomes sorbitol; an
                                                  44

    WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
osmolyte within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, sorbitol and other reduced forms of
sugar/sugar alcohols (e.g., mannitol, dulcitol, arabitol) are suitable osmolytes for use in the
present invention. Mannitol is a preferred non-ionic osmolyte for use in combination with the
compounds of the invention.
        "Organic osmolytes" is generally used to refer to molecules that control intracellular
osmolality in the kidney. See e.g., J. S. Handler et al., Comp. Biochem. Physiol, 117, 301-306
(1997); M. Burg, Am. J. Physiol. 268, F983-F996 (1995).     Organic osmolytes include but are not
limited to three major classes of compounds: polyols (polyhydric alcohols), methylamines, and
amino acids.    Suitable polyol organic osmolytes include but are not limited to, inositol, myo
inositol, and sorbitol. Suitable methylamine organic osmolytes include but are not limited to,
choline, betaine, carnitine (L-, D- and DL forms), phosphorylcholine, lyso-phosphorylcholine,
glycerophosphorylcholine,    creatine, and creatine phosphate.      Suitable amino acid organic
osmolytes include but are not limited to, the D- and L-forms of glycine, alanine, glutamine,
glutamate, aspartate, proline and taurine. Additional organic osmolytes suitable for use in the
present invention include tihulose and sarcosine. Mammalian organic osmolytes are preferred,
with human organic osmolytes being most preferred. However, certain organic osmolytes are of
bacterial, yeast, and marine animal origin, and these compounds may also be employed in the
present invention.
        Osmolyte precursors may be used in combination with the compounds of the invention
An "osmolyte precursor" as used herein refers to a compound which is converted into an
osmolyte by a metabolic step, either catabolic or anabolic.    Examples of osmolyte precursors
include but are not limited to, glucose, glucose polymers, glycerol, choline, phosphatidylcholine,
lyso-phosphatidylcholine    and inorganic phosphates, which are precursors of polyols and
methylamines.     Precursors of amino acid osmolytes include proteins, peptides, and polyamino
acids, which are hydrolyzed to yield osmolyte amino acids, and metabolic precursors which can
be converted into osmolyte amino acids by a metabolic step such as transamination.             For
example, a precursor of the amino acid glutamine is poly-L-glutamine, and a precursor of
glutamate is poly-L-glutamic acid.
        Chemically modified osmolytes or osmolyte precursors may also be employed.           Such
chemical modifications involve linking the osmolyte (or precursor) to an additional chemical
group which alters or enhances the effect of the osmolyte or osmolyte precursor (e.g., inhibits
degradation of the osmolyte molecule).      Such chemical modifications have been utilized with
drugs or prodrugs and are known in the art. (See, for example, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,479,932 and
4,540,564; Shek, E. et al., J. Med. Chem. 19:113-117 (1976); Bodor, N. et al., J. Pharm. Sci.
                                                 45

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
67:1045-1050 (1978); Bodor, N. et al., J. Med. Chem. 26:313-318 (1983); Bodor, N. et al., J.
Pharm. Sci. 75:29-35 (1986).
        Preferred osmolytes for use in combination with the compounds of the invention include
sodium chloride, particular hypertonic saline, and mannitol.
        For the formulation of 7% and >7% hypertonic saline, formulations containing
bicarbonate anions may be particularly useful, especially for respiratory disorders with cystic
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) dysfunction such as CF or COPD. Recent
findings indicate that, although the relative ratio of HCO3- conductance/Cl- conductance is
between 0.1 and .2 for single CFTR channels activated with cAMP and ATP, the ratio in the
sweat duct can range from virtually 0 to almost 1.0, depending on conditions of stimulation. That
is, combining cAMP + cGMP + a-ketoglutarate can yield CFTR HCO3- conductance almost
equal to that of Cl- conductance (Quiton et al. Physiology, Vol. 22, No. 3, 212-225, June 2007).
Furthermore, formulations of 7% and >7% hypertonic saline containing bicarbonate anions may
be particularly useful due to better control of the pH in the airway surface liquid. First, it has
shown that that airway acidification occurs in CF (Tate et al. 2002) and that absent CFTR
dependent bicarbonate secretion can lead to an impaired capacity to respond to airway conditions
associated with acidification of airway surface liquid layer (Coakley et al. 2003). Second,
addition of HS solution without bicarbonate to the surface of the lung may further dilute the
bicarbonate concentrations, and potentially reduce the pH or the ability to respond to airway
acidification within the airway surface liquid layer. Therefore addition of bicarbonate anions to
HS may help maintain or improve the pH of airway surface liquid layer in CF patients.
        Due to this evidence, inclusion of bicarbonate anion in the formulation of 7% or >7%
hypertonic saline administered by the method of this invention would be particularly useful.
Formulations containing up to 30 to 200 mM concentrations of bicarbonate anions are of
particular interest for 7% or >7% HS solutions.
        Hypertonic saline is understood to have a salt concentration greater than that of normal
saline (NS), i.e. greater than 9 g/L or 0.9% w/v, and hypotonic saline has a salt concentration less
than that of normal saline, such as from about 1 g or L/0.1% w/v to about 8 g/L or 0.8% w/v.
Hypertonic saline solutions useful in the formulations and methods of treatment herein may have
a salt concentration from about 1% to about 23.4% (w/v). In one embodiment the hypertonic
saline solution has a salt concentration from about 60 g/L (6% w/v) to about 100 g/L (10% w/v).
In another embodiment, the saline solution has a salt concentration from about 70 g/L (7% w/v)
to about 100 g/L (10% w/v). In further embodiments, the saline solution has salt concentrations
of a) from about 0.5 g/L (0.05% w/v) to about 70 g/L (7% w/v); b) from about 1 g/L (0.1% w/v)
                                                 46

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
to about 60 g/L (6% w/v); c) from about 1 g/L (0.1% w/v) to about 50 g/L (5% w/v); d) from
about 1 g/L (0.1% w/v) to about 40 g/L (4% w/v); e) from about 1 g/L (0.1% w/v) to about 30
g/L (3% w/v); and f) from about 1 g/L (0.1% w/v) to about 20 g/L (2% w/v).
        Specific concentrations of saline solutions useful in the formulations and methods of
treatment herein include, independently, those having salt concentrations of 1 g/L (0.1% w/v), 2
g/L (0.2% w/v), 3 g/L (0.3% w/v), 4 g/L (0.4% w/v), 5 g/L (0.5% w/v), 6 g/L (0.6% w/v), 7 g/L
(0.7% w/v), 8 g/L (0.8% w/v), 9 g/L (0.9% w/v), 10 g/L (1% w/v), 20 g/L (2% w/v), 30 g/L (3%
w/v), 40 g/L (4% w/v), 50 g/L (5% w/v), 60 g/L (6% w/v), 70 g/L (7% w/v), 80 g/L (8% w/v), 90
g/L (9% w/v), 100 g/L (10% w/v), 110 g/L (11% w/v), 120 g/L (12% w/v), 130 g/L (13% w/v),
140 g/L (14% w/v), 150 g/L (15% w/v), 160 g/L (16% w/v), 170 g/L (17% w/v), 180 g/L (18%
w/v), 190 g/L (19% w/v), 200 g/L (20% w/v), 210 g/L (21% w/v), 220 g/L (22% w/v), and 230
g/L (23% w/v) .         Saline     concentrations     between       each    of      these    listed
concentrations/percentages may also be used, such as saline of 1.7 g/L (0.17% w/v), 1.25 g/L
(1.25% w/v), 1.5 g/L (1.5% w/v), 25 g/L (2.5% w/v), 28 g/L (2.8% w/v), 35 g/L (3.5% w/v), 45
g/L (4.5% w/v), and 75 g/L (7.5% w/v).
        Specific useful concentration of hypotonic saline solutions include those from about 0.12
g/L (0.012% w/v) to about 8.5 g/L (0.85% w/v). Any concentration within this range may be
used, such as, on a w/v basis, 0.05%, 0.1%, 0.15%, 0.2%, 0.225% (1/4 NS), 0.25%, 0.3% (1/3
NS), 0.35%, 0.4%, 0.45% (1/2 NS), 0.5%, 0.55%, 0.6% (2/3 NS), 0.65%, 0.675% (3/4 NS),
0.7%, 0.75%, and 0.8%.
        Each of the ranges and specific concentrations of saline described herein may be used
with the formulations, methods of treatment, regimens, and kits described herein.
        Also intended within the scope of this invention are chemically modified osmolytes or
osmolyte precursors. Such chemical modifications involve linking to the osmolyte (or precursor)
an additional chemical group which alters or enhances the effect of the osmolyte or osmolyte
precursor (e.g., inhibits degradation of the osmolyte molecule). Such chemical modifications
have been utilized with drugs or prodrugs and are known in the art. (See, for example, U.S. Pat.
Nos. 4,479,932 and 4,540,564; Shek, E. et al., J. Med. Chem. 19:113-117 (1976); Bodor, N. et
al., J. Pharm. Sci. 67:1045-1050 (1978); Bodor, N. et al., J. Med. Chem. 26:313-318 (1983);
Bodor, N. et al., J. Pharm. Sci. 75:29-35 (1986), each incorporated herein by reference.
        Suitable anti-inflammatory agents for use in combination with the compounds of the
invention   include corticosteroids     and non-steroidal   anti-inflammatory   drugs    (NSAIDs),
particularly phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors.      Examples of corticosteroids for use in the
present invention include oral or inhaled corticosteroids or prodrugs thereof. Specific examples
                                                  47

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
include but are not limited to ciclesonide, desisobutyryl-ciclesonide, budesonide, flunisolide,
mometasone and esters thereof (e.g., mometasone furoate), fluticasone propionate, fluticasone
furoate, beclomethasone, methyl prednisolone, prednisolone, dexamethasone, 6x,9a-difluoro
 17a-[(2-furanylcarbonyl)oxy]-11 -hydroxy-16x-methyl-3-oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-173
carbothioic acid S-fluoromethyl ester, 6x,9a-difluoro-11 -hydroxy-16x-methyl-3-oxo-17x
propionyloxy-androsta-1,4-diene-17 -carbothioic acid S-(2-oxo-tetrahydro-furan-3S-yl) ester,
beclomethasone esters (e.g., the 17-propionate ester or the 17,21-dipropionate ester, fluoromethyl
ester, triamcinolone acetonide, rofleponide, or any combination or subset thereof. Preferred
corticosteroids for formulation or use in combination with the compounds of the invention are
selected from ciclesonide, desisobutyryl-ciclesonide, budesonide, mometasone, fluticasone
propionate, and fluticasone furoate, or any combination or subset thereof.
        NSAIDs for use in the present invention include but are not limited to sodium
cromoglycate, nedocromil sodium, phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors (e.g., theophylline,
aminophylline, PDE4 inhibitors, mixed PDE3/PDE4 inhibitors or mixed PDE4/PDE7 inhibitors),
leukotriene antagonists, inhibitors of leukotriene synthesis (e.g., 5 LO and FLAP inhibitors),
nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibitors, protease inhibitors (e.g., tryptase inhibitors, neutrophil
elastase inhibitors, and metalloprotease inhibitors)      P2-integrin antagonists and adenosine
receptor agonists or antagonists (e.g., adenosine 2a agonists), cytokine antagonists (e.g.,
chemokine antagonists) or inhibitors of cytokine synthesis (e.g., prostaglandin D2 (CRTh2)
receptor antagonists).   Examples of leukotriene modifiers suitable for administration by the
method of this invention include montelukast, zileuton and zafirlukast.
        The PDE4 inhibitor, mixed PDE3/PDE4 inhibitor or mixed PDE4/PDE7 inhibitor may be
any compound that is known to inhibit the PDE4 enzyme or which is discovered to act as a PDE4
inhibitor, and which are selective PDE4 inhibitors (i.e., compounds which do not appreciably
inhibit other members of the PDE family). Examples of specific PDE4 inhibitors for formulation
and use in combination with the compounds of the present invention include but are not limited to
roflumilast, pumafentrine, arofylline, cilomilast, tofimilast, oglemilast, tolafentrine, piclamilast,
ibudilast, apremilast, 2-[4-[6,7-diethoxy-2,3-bis(hydroxymethyl)-1-naphthalenyl]-2-pyridinyl]-4
(3-pyridinyl)-1(2H)-phthalazinone            (T2585),           N-(3,5-dichloro-4-pyridinyl)-1-[(4
fluorophenyl)methyl]-5-hydroxy-x-oxo-1H-indole-3-acetamide          (AWD-12-281,        4-[(2R)-2-[3
(cyclopentyloxy)-4-methoxyphenyl]-2-phenylethyl]-pyridine         (CDP-840),          2-[4-[[[[2-(1,3
benzodioxol-5 -yloxy)-3 -pyridinyl]carbonyl] amino]methyl] -3-fluorophenoxy] -(2R)-propanoic
acid      (CP-671305),      N-(4,6-dimethyl-2-pyrimidinyl)-4-[4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2-(4-methoxy-3
                                                 48

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
methylphenyl)-5-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-1H-indol-1-yl]-           benzenesulfonamide,          (2E)-2
butenedioate (YM-393059),      9-[(2-fluorophenyl)methyl]-N-methyl-2-(trifluoromethyl)-9H-purin
6-amine (NCS-613), N-(2,5-dichloro-3-pyridinyl)-8-methoxy-5-quinolinecarboxamide             (D-4418),
N- [(3R)-9-amino-3,4,6,7-tetrahydro-4-oxo- 1-phenylpyrrolo [3,2,1-] [1,4]benzodiazepin-3-yl]-3H
purin-6-amine     (PD-168787),      3-[[3-(cyclopentyloxy)-4-methoxyphenyl]methyl]-N-ethyl-8-(1
methylethyl)-3H-purin-6-amine         hydrochloride      (V-11294A),       N-(3,5-dichloro- 1-oxido-4
pyridinyl)-8-methoxy-2-(trifluoromethyl)-5-quinolinecarboxamide              (Sch351591),         5-[3
(cyclopentyloxy)-4-methoxyphenyl]-3-[(3-methylphenyl)methyl]-(3S,5S)-           2-piperidinone ( HT
0712),   5-(2-((1 R,4R)-4-amino- 1-(3 -(cyclopentyloxy)-4-methyoxyphenyl)cyclohexyl)          ethynyl)
pyrimidine-2-amine,cis-[4-cyano-4-(3-cyclopropylmethoxy-4-difluoromethoxy
phenyl)cyclohexan- 1-ol],     and    4- [6,7-diethoxy-2,3 -bis(hydroxymethyl)- 1 -naphthalenyl] -1 -(2
methoxyethyl)-2(1H)-pyridinone (T-440), and any combination or subset thereof.
        Leukotriene antagonists     and inhibitors of leukotriene synthesis include zafirlukast,
montelukast sodium, zileuton, and pranlukast.
        Anticholinergic agents for formulation or use in combination with the compounds of the
invention include but are not limited to muscarinic receptor antagonists, particularly including
pan antagonists and antagonists of the M 3 receptors. Exemplary compounds include the alkaloids
of the belladonna plants, such as atropine, scopolamine, homatropine, hyoscyamine, and the
various forms including salts thereof (e.g., anhydrous atropine, atropine sulfate, atropine oxide or
HCl,   methylatropine    nitrate,  homatropine     hydrobromide,    homatropine     methyl    bromide,
hyoscyamine hydrobromide, hyoscyamine sulfate, scopolamine hydrobromide, scopolamine
methyl bromide) , or any combination or subset thereof.
        Additional   anticholinergics    for   formulation   and   use   in   combination    with   the
methantheline, propantheline bromide, anisotropine methyl bromide or Valpin 50, aclidinium
bromide, glycopyrrolate (Robinul), isopropamide iodide, mepenzolate bromide, tridihexethyl
chloride, hexocyclium methylsulfate, cyclopentolate HCl, tropicamide, trihexyphenidyl CCl,
pirenzepine, telenzepine, and methoctramine, or any combination or subset thereof.
        Preferred anticholinergics for formulation and use in combination with the compounds of
the invention include ipratropium (bromide), oxitropium (bromide) and tiotropium (bromide), or
any combination or subset thereof.
        Examples of 3-agonists for formulation and use in combination with the compounds of the
invention include but are not limited to salmeterol,       R-salmeterol, and xinafoate salts thereof,
albuterol or R-albuterol (free base or sulfate), levalbuterol, salbutamol, formoterol (fumarate),
                                                   49

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
fenoterol, procaterol, pirbuterol, metaprterenol, terbutaline and salts thereof, and any combination
or subset thereof.
        P2Y2 receptor agonists for formulation and use in combination with the compounds of
the invention may be employed in an amount effective to stimulate chloride and water secretion
by airway surfaces, particularly nasal airway surfaces.       Suitable P2Y2 receptor agonists are
known in the art and are described for example, in columns 9-10 of US Patent No. 6,264,975, and
also US Patent Nos. 5,656,256 and 5,292,498.
        P2Y 2 agonists that can be administered by the methods of this invention include P2Y 2
receptor agonists such as ATP, UTP, UTP-.gamma.-S and dinucleotide P2Y 2 receptor agonists
(e.g. denufosol or diquafosol) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The P2Y 2 receptor
agonist is typically included in an amount effective to stimulate chloride and water secretion by
airway surfaces, particularly nasal airway surfaces. Suitable P2Y 2 receptor agonists are described
in, but are not limited to, U.S. Pat. No. 6,264,975, U.S. Pat.No.5,656,256, U.S. Pat. No.
5,292,498, U.S. Pat. No. 6,348,589, U.S. Pat. No. 6,818,629, U.S. Pat. No. 6,977,246, U.S. Pat.
No. 7,223,744, U.S. Pat.No.7,531,525 and U.S. Pat.AP.2009/0306009 each of which is
incorporated herein by reference.
        Combination therapies and formulations herein can include adenosine 2b (A2b) agonists,
also, including BAY 60-6583, NECA (N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine), (S)-PHPNECA, LUF
5835 and LUF-5845. A2b agonists that may be used are described by Volpini et al., Journal of
Medicinal Chemistry 45 (15): 3271-9 (2002); Volpini et al., Current PharmaceuticalDesign 8
(26): 2285-98 (2002); Baraldi et al., Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 47 (6): Cacciari et al.,
 1434-47 (2004); Mini Reviews in Medicinal Chemistry 5 (12): 1053-60 (Dec. 2005); Baraldi et
al., Current Medicinal Chemistry 13 (28): 3467-82 (2006); Beukers et al., Medicinal Research
Reviews 26 (5): 667-98 (Sept. 2006); Elzein et al., Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters 16
(2): 302-6 (Jan. 2006); Carotti, et al., Journal of Medicinal Chemistry 49 (1): 282-99 (Jan.
2006); Tabrizi et al., Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry 16 (5): 2419-30 (March 2008); and
Stefanachi, et al., Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry 16 (6): 2852-69 (March 2008).
        Examples of other ENaC receptor blockers for formulation and use in combination with
the compounds of the invention include but are not limited to amiloride and derivatives thereof
such as those compounds described in US Patent No. 6858615, and PCT Publication Nos.
W02003/070182, W02004/073629, W02005/018644, W02006/022935, W02007/018640, and
W02007/146869, all to Parion Sciences, Inc.
        Small molecule ENaC blockers are capable of directly preventing sodium transport
through the ENaC channel pore. ENaC blocker that can be administered in the combinations
                                                  50

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
herein include, but are not limited to, amiloride, benzamil, phenamil, and amiloride analogues as
exemplified by US Pat. No. 6,858,614, US Pat. No. 6,858,615, US Pat. No. 6,903,105, US Pat.
No. 6,995,160, US Pat. No. 7,026,325, US Pat. No. 7,030,117, US Pat. No. 7,064,129, US Pat.
No. 7,186,833, US Pat. No. 7,189,719, US Pat. No. 7,192,958, US Pat. No. 7,192,959, US Pat.
No. 7,241,766, US Pat. No. 7,247,636, US Pat. No. 7,247,637, US Pat. No. 7,317,013, US Pat.
No. 7,332,496, US Pat. No. 7,345,044, US Pat. No. 7,368,447, US Pat. No. 7,368,450, US Pat.
No. 7,368,451, US Pat. No. 7,375,107, US Pat. No. 7,399,766, US Pat. No. 7,410,968, US Pat.
No. 7,820,678, US Pat. No. 7,842,697, US Pat. No. 7,868,010, US Pat. No. 7,875,619.
        ENaC proteolysis is well described to increase sodium transport through ENaC. Protease
inhibitor block the activity of endogenous airway proteases, thereby preventing ENaC cleavage
and activation. Protease that cleave ENaC include furin, meprin, matriptase, trypsin, channel
associated proteases (CAPs), and neutrophil elastases. Protease inhibitors that can inhibit the
proteolytic activity of these proteases that can be administered in the combinations herein
include, but are not limited to, camostat, prostasin, furin, aprotinin, leupeptin, and trypsin
inhibitors.
        Combinations herein may include one or more suitable nucleic acid (or polynucleic acid),
including but not limited to antisense oligonucleotide, siRNA, miRNA, miRNA mimic,
antagomir, ribozyme, aptamer, and decoy oligonucleotide nucleic acids. See, e.g., US Patent
Application Publication No. 20100316628. In general, such nucleic acids may be from 17 or 19
nucleotides in length, up to 23, 25 or 27 nucleotides in length, or more. Examples include, but
are not limited to, those described in US Patent No. 7,517,865 and US Patent Applications Nos.
20100215588; 20100316628; 20110008366; and 20110104255. In general, the siRNAs are from
17 or 19 nucleotides in length, up to 23, 25 or 27 nucleotides in length, or more.
        CFTR activity modulating compounds that can be administered in the combinations of
this invention include, but are not limited to, compounds described in US 2009/0246137 Al, US
2009/0253736 Al, US 2010/0227888 Al, Patent number 7,645,789, US 2009/0246820 Al, US
2009/0221597 Al, US 2010/0184739 Al, US 2010/0130547 Al, US 2010/0168094 Al and
issued patent: 7,553,855; US 7,772,259 B2, US 7,405,233 B2, US 2009/0203752, US 7,499,570.
        Mucus or mucin modifying agents useful in the combinations and methods herein include
reducing agents, surfactants and detergents, expectorants, and deoxyribonuclease agents.
        Mucin proteins are organized into high molecular weight polymers via the formation of
covalent (disulfide) and non-covalent bonds. Disruption of the covalent bonds with reducing
agents is a well-established method to reduce the viscoelastic properties of mucus in vitro and is
predicted to minimize mucus adhesiveness and improve clearance in vivo. Reducing agents are
                                                  51

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
well known to decrease mucus viscosity in vitro and commonly used as an aid to processing
sputum samples.        Examples of reducing agents include sulfide containing molecules or
phosphines capable of reducing protein di-sulfide bonds including, but not limited to, N-acetyl
cysteine, N-acystelyn, carbocysteine, glutathione, dithiothreitol, thioredoxin containing proteins,
and tris (2-carboxyethyl) phosphine.
         N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) is approved for use in conjunction with chest physiotherapy to
loosen viscid or thickened airway mucus. Clinical studies evaluating the effects of oral or inhaled
NAC in CF and COPD have reported improvements in the rheologic properties of mucus and
trends toward improvements in lung function and decreases in pulmonary exacerbations 9.
However, the preponderance of clinical data suggests that NAC is at best a marginally effective
therapeutic agent for treating airway mucus obstruction when administered orally or by
inhalation. A recent Cochrane review of the existing clinical literature on the use of NAC found
no evidence to support the efficacy of NAC for CF. The marginal clinical benefit of NAC
reflects:
         NAC is a relative inefficient reducing agent which is only partially active on the airway
surface.    Very high concentrations of NAC (200 mM or 3.26%) are required to fully reduce
Muc5B, a major gel-forming airway mucin, in vitro. Furthermore, in the pH environment of the
airway surface (measured in the range of pH 6.0 to 7.2 in CF and COPD airways), NAC exists
only partially in its reactive state as a negatively charge thiolate. Thus, in the clinic, NAC is
administered at very high concentrations. However, it is predicted that current aerosol devices
will not be able to achieve therapeutic concentrations of even a 20% Mucomyst solution on distal
airway surfaces within the relatively short time domains (7.5 - 15 minutes) typically used.
         In non-clinical studies,   14C-labled  NAC, administered by inhalation, exhibits rapid
elimination from the lungs with a half-life ranging from 6 to 36 minutes
         NAC is administered as a highly concentrated, hypertonic inhalation solution (20% or
 1.22 molar) and has been reported to cause bronchoconstriction and cough. In many cases, it is
recommended that NAC be administered with a bronchodilator to improve the tolerability of this
agent.
         Thus, reducing agents such as NAC are not well suited for bolus aerosol administration.
However, it is anticipated that delivery of reducing agents by pulmonary aerosol infusion would
increase the effectiveness, while allowing for a decrease in the concentration of reducing agent in
the inhalation solution (predicted to increase tolerability).
          Surfactants and detergents are spreading agents shown to decrease mucus viscoelasticity,
improving mucus clearability. Examples of surfactants include dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine
                                                  52

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
(DPPC), PF, palmitic acid, palmitoyl-oleoylphosphatidylglycerol, surfactant-associated proteins
(e.g. SP-A, B, or C), or may be animal derived (e.g. from cow or calf lung lavage or extracted
from minced pig lung) or combinations thereof. See, e.g., US Patent Nos. 7,897,577; 5,876,970;
5,614,216; 5,100,806; and 4,312,860.         Examples of surfactant products include Exosurf
Neonatal (colfosceril palmitate), Pumactant* (DPPC and egg phosphatidylglycerol),              KL-4
surfactant,  Venticute*    (lusulptide, rSP-C   surfactant),   Alveofact*  (bovactant),    Curosur
(poractant alfa), Infasurr (calfactant), Newfacten* (modified bovine surfactant), Surface,
Natsurf m   (nonionic alcohol ethoxylate surfactant)and Survanta (beractant).         Examples of
detergents include, but are not limited to, Tween-80 and triton-X 100.
        Any suitable expectorant can be used, including but not limited to guaifenesin (see, e.g.,
US Patent No. 7,345,051).       Any suitable deoxyribonuclease can be used, including but not
limited to Dornase Alpha. (see, e.g., US Patent No. 7,482,024).
        Examples of kinase inhibitors include inhibitors of NFkB, P13K (phosphatidylinositol 3
kinase), p38-MAP kinase and Rho kinase.
        Antiinfective agents for formulation and use in combination with the compounds of the
invention include antivirals and antibiotics.   Examples of suitable antivirals include Tamiflu@
(oseltamivir) and Relenza@ (zanamivir).      Examples of suitable antibiotics include but are not
limited to aztreonam (arginine or lysine), fosfomycin, and aminoglycosides such as tobramycin,
or any combination or subset thereof. Additional antiinfective agents that may be used herein
include     aminoglycosides,     Daptomycin,      Fluoroquinolones,     Ketolides,    Carbapenems,
Cephalosporins,      Erythromycin,     Linezolid,    Penicillins,   Azithromycin,      Clindamycin,
Oxazolidinones, Tetracyclines, and Vancomycin.
        Examples of useful carbapenam antibiotics are impenam, panipenam, meropenam,
biapenam, MK-826 (L-749,345), DA-1131, ER-35786, lenapenam, S-4661, CS-834 (prodrug of
R-95867), KR-21056 (prodrug of KR-21012), L-084 (prodrug of LJC 11036) and Ceftolozane
(CXA-101).
        Antihistamines (i.e., H1-receptor antagonists) for formulation and use in combination
with the compounds of the invention include but are not limited to: ethanolamines such as
diphenhydramine       HCl,    carbinoxamine     maleate,     doxylamine,    clemastine     fumarate,
diphenylhydramine HCl and dimenhydrinate; ethylenediamines such as pyrilamine maleate
(metpyramine), tripelennamine HCl, tripelennamine citrate, and antazoline; alkylamines such as
pheniramine,    chloropheniramine, bromopheniramine,       dexchlorpheniramine,    triprolidine and
acrivastine; pyridines such as methapyrilene, piperazines such as hydroxyzine HCl, hydroxyzine
pamoate, cyclizine HCl, cyclizine lactate, meclizine HCl and cetirizine HCl; piperidines such as
                                                  53

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
astemisole,    levocabastine    HCl,  loratadine,   descarboethoxyloratadine,      terfenadine,   and
fexofenadine HCl; tri- and tetracyclics such as promethazine, chlorpromethazine trimeprazine
and azatadine; and azelastine HCl, or any combination or subset thereof.
        Examples of other classes of therapeutic agents suitable for use in the combinations and
methods herein include antivirals such as ribavirin, anti-fungal agents such as amphotericin,
intraconazol and voriconazol, anti-rejection drugs such as cyclosporine, tacrolimus and sirolimus,
bronchodilators including but not limited to anticholinergic agents such as atrovent, siRNAs,
gene therapy vectors, aptamers,        endothelin-receptor antagonists,     alpha-i -antitrypsin  and
prostacyclins.
        In the above-described methods of treatment and uses, a compound of the invention may
be employed alone, or in combination with one or more other therapeutically active agents.
Typically, any therapeutically active agent that has a therapeutic effect in the disease or condition
being treated with the compound of the invention may be utilized in combination with the
compounds of the invention, provided that the particular therapeutically active agent is
compatible with therapy employing a compound of the invention. Typical therapeutically active
agents which are suitable for use in combination with the compounds of the invention include
agents described above.
        In one preferred embodiment, the compounds of the invention are used in combination
with one or more osmolytes, particularly hypertonic saline or mannitol.
        In another aspect, the invention provides methods for treatment and uses as described
above, which comprise administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention and at
least one other therapeutically active agent. The compounds of the invention and at least one
additional therapeutically active agent may be employed in combination concomitantly or
sequentially in any therapeutically appropriate combination. The administration of a compound
of the invention with one or more other therapeutically active agents may be by administration
concomitantly in 1) a unitary pharmaceutical composition, such as the compositions described
above, or 2) separate pharmaceutical compositions each including one or more of the component
active ingredients.   The components of the combination may be administered separately in a
sequential manner wherein the compound of the invention is administered first and the other
therapeutically active agent is administered second or vice versa.
        In the embodiments wherein the compound of the invention is administered in
combination with one or more osmolytes, the administration of each component is preferably
concomitant, and may be in a unitary composition or separate compositions. In one embodiment,
the compound of the invention and one or more osmolytes are administered concomitantly by
                                                 54

       WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
transbronchoscopic lavage. In another embodiment, the compound of the invention and one or
more osmolytes are administered concomitantly by inhalation.
          When a compound of the invention is used in combination with another therapeutically
active agent, the dose of each compound may differ from that when the compound of the
invention is used alone. Appropriate doses will be readily determined by one of ordinary skill in
the art. The appropriate dose of the compound of the invention, the other therapeutically active
agent(s) and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired
combined therapeutic effect, and are within the expertise and discretion of the attendant
physician, clinician or veterinarian.
Experimental Procedures          The present invention also provides processes for preparing the
compounds of the invention and to the synthetic intermediates useful in such processes, as
described in detail below.
          Certain abbreviations and acronyms are used in describing the synthetic processes and
experimental details. Although most of these would be understood by one skilled in the art, the
following table contains a list of many of these abbreviations and acronyms.
  Abbreviation       Meaning
   AcOH              Acetic Acid
   AIBN             Azobisisobutyrolnitrile
   DIAD             Diisopropyl azidocarboxylate
   DIPEA            N,N-Diisopropylethylamine
   DCE              dichloroethane
   DCM               dichloromethane
   DMF               dimethylformamide
   Et                Ethyl
   EtOAc or EA       ethyl acetate
   EtOH              Ethanol
   ESI               electrospray ionization
   HATU              2-(1 H-7-Azabenzotriazol-1 -yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl uronium
                     hexafluorophosphate
   HPLC              High performance liquid chromatography
   iPrOH             Isopropyl alcohol
   i.t. or IT        intratracheal
   Me                Methyl
   MeOH              methanol
                                                   55

     WO 2014/099676                                                   PCT/US2013/075108
 Abbreviation     Meaning
  AcOH            Acetic Acid
  m/z or m/e      mass to charge ratio
  MH*             mass plus 1
  MH-             mass minus 1
  MIC             minimal inhibitory concentration
  MS or ms        mass spectrum
  rt or r.t.      room temperature
  Rj              Retardation factor
  t-Bu            tert-butyl
  THF             tetrahydrofuran
  TLC or tic      thin layer chromatography
  5               parts per million down field from tetramethylsilane
  Cbz             Benzyloxycarbonyl, i.e. -(CO)O-benzyl
  AUC             Area under the curve or peak
  MTBE            Methyl tertiary butyl ether
  tR              Retention time
  GC-MS           Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
  wt%             Percent by weight
  h               Hours
  min             Minutes
  MHz             megahertz
  TFA             Trifluoroacetic acid
  UV              Ultraviolet
  Boc             tert-butyloxycarbonyl
  DIAD            Diisopropyl azodicarboxylate
  AcOH            Acetic Acid
  DIPEA           N,N-Diisopropylethylamine or HLnig's base
  Ph3 P           Triphenylphosine
The compounds of Formula I may be synthesized using techniques known in the art.      A
representative synthetic procedure is illustrated in Scheme 1 below.
Scheme 1
                                                 56

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
              0
 H3 CS             N    C1         R 2.        (CH2)n        NH           Ar                     I
                              +                   N              0
  HN)E-     N
            H NIN       NH2                                   H           A
                                                                R{ NR   4
         These procedures are described in, for example, E. J. Cragoe, "The Synthesis of
Amiloride and Its Analogs" (Chap 3) in Amiloride and Its Analogs, pp. 25-36. Other processes
for preparing amiloride analogs are described in, for example, U.S. Patent No. 3,318,813, to
Cragoe, particularly at methods A, B, C, and D of the '813 patent. Still other processes which
may be adapted for the preparation of the compounds of the invention are described in PCT
Publication Nos. W02003/07182, W02005/108644, W02005/022935, US 7,064,129, US
6,858,615, US 6,903,105, WO 2004/073629, WO 2007/146869, and WO 2007/018640, all
assigned to Parion Sciences, Inc.
         Preparation of methyl N'-3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2-carbonylcarbamimido thioate
(2) can be seen in WO 2009/074575.
         Generally, the compounds of the invention may be conveniently prepared by treating a
compound of Formula II with an amine of Formula Ill. More specifically, compounds of Formula
2 are treated with the amine of Formula 3 in a suitable solvent such as methanol, ethanol, or
tetrahydrofuran, and a base such as triethylamine (TEA), or di-isoproylethylamine (DIPEA), with
heating to elevated temperature, e.g., 702C.      Further purification, resolution of stereoisomers,
crystallization and/or preparation of salt forms may be carried out using conventional
techniques.
         As will be apparent to those skilled in the art, in certain instances, the starting or
intermediate compounds in the synthesis may possess other functional groups which provide
alternate reactive sites. Interference with such functional groups may be avoided by utilization
of appropriate protecting groups, such as amine or alcohol protecting groups, and where
applicable, appropriately prioritizing the synthetic steps.     Suitable protecting groups will be
apparent to those skilled in the art.      Methods are well known in the art for installing and
removing such protecting groups and such conventional techniques may be employed in the
processes of the instant invention as well.
         The following specific examples which are provided herein for purposes of illustration
only and do not limit the scope of the invention, which is defined by the claims.
         Material and methods. All reagent and solvents were purchased from Aldrich Chemical
Corp., Chem-Impex International Inc. and TCI chemical industry Co. Ltd. NMR spectra were
                                                                  13
obtained on either a Bruker AC 400 ('H NMR at 400 MHz and            C NMR at 100 MHz) or a Bruker
                                     13
AC 300 ('H NMR at 300 MHz and           C NMR at 75 MHz). Proton spectra were referenced to
tetramethylsilane as an internal standard and the carbon spectra were referenced to CDCI3 ,
CD3OD, or DMSO-d (purchased from Aldrich or Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, unless
                                                 57

    WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
otherwise specified). Flash chromatography was performed on a Combiflash system
(Combiflash Rf, Teledyne Isco) charged with silica gel column (Redi Sep. Rf, Teledyne Isco) or
reverse phase column (High performance C18 Gold column). ESI Mass spectra were obtained
on a Shimadzu LCMS-201 0 EV Mass Spectrometer. HPLC analyses were obtained using a
Waters XTerra MS C18 5pm 4.6x150mm Analytical Column detected at 220 nm (unless
otherwise specified) on a Shimadzu Prominence HPLC system. The following time program
was used with a flow rate of 1.0 mL per minute:
                    Time          Percent A                Percent B
                            (H20 with 0.05% TFA)   (CH3CN with 0.05% TFA)
                    (min)
                    2.50              90                        10
                   20.00              10                        90
                   30.00              10                        90
                   32.50              90                        10
UPLC analyses were obtained using a Waters ACQUITY UPLC HSS T3 1.8pm 2.1x100mm
Analytical Column detected at 220 nm (unless otherwise specified) on a Shimadzu Prominence
UFLC system. The following time program was used with a flow rate of 0.3 mL per minute:
                                                              Percent B
                                  Percent A
                Time                                    (CH3CN/Water 80:20%
                         (H20 with 0.05% NH 4COOH       wt    .5      H00
                (min)        and 0.1% HCOOH)          and 0.%      HCOO
                                                      and 0. 1% HCOOH)
                 1.00                 90                           10
                4.00                  30                          70
                 5.00                 30                          70
                 5.50                 90                           10
                 6.50                 90                           10
                                                58

WO 2014/099676                                                         PCT/US2013/075108
1. Preparation of the hydrochloride salt of (S)-2-amino-3-(4-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6
chloropyrazine-2-carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)naphthalen-1-yl)propanoic acid (16)
                                     Scheme 2
                                         59

       WO 2014/099676                                                                                    PCT/US2013/075108
                                                                   BocHN       CO 2 Me
                        ___TBSCl                         I              3   P(O)(OCH 3 )2
    OHC       ~       imidazole, THF      OHC                         DBU, CH2Cl2              H3 CO 2 C
                                 I                                                                    ~BocHuN               OB
                                                        OTBS                                                                OTBS
                    OH                            2
                                                                                                      Pd/C, H2
H 3CO 2 C                                      H3CO 2C                                                  MeOH
       BouIN                                                                 OH         TBAFH
                                                                                         TFf1C2
                            OH                          NH2
H3CO 2C                                                                                                          5
       BocfuIN
                  8         OH
 Tf 2 0, Pyridine N                                              NHCbz
          CH 2 Cl 2 H3 CO 2 C                             10             H3 CO 2 C s
                                                   Pd(PPh 3) 4 , CuI          BocHN
                         BocHuN              OTf   (t-Bu) 3P, Et 3N
                                   9                   CH 3CN                                     11                NHCbz
                                                                      Pd/C, H 2, MeOH/AcOH
                                                                                    0
                                                                          H 3CO
                                                                                 BocNH
                                                                                                                     NH2-AcOH
                                                                                                   12
                                                                                                               0    NH*HI
                                        O                               DIPEA, EtOH                Cl     NI-NSCH
                                                                                                            -             3
                                 MeO                                         NH       0         H 2N      N    NH 2
                                                                               ,            N     C           13
                                              BIf&
                                     BocHN                                N     N                 Cl
                                                                          H       H       I
                                                                 14               H2 N            NH 2
                                       O                            LiOH, MeOH/THF/H 20
                                  HO                                        NH      O
                                     BocHN                           15                    N    C     1
                                                                 15              H2 N      N    NH2
                                       O                            4NaqHCl
                                  HO                                        NH       0      -2HCl
                                          & H2                       16                    N    C     1
                                                                        H        HI
                                                                  16             H2 N      N    NH2
Preparation of 4-(tert-Butyldimethylsilyloxy)naphthalene-1-carbaldehyde                                   (2); A solution of
4-hydroxynaphthalene-1-carbaldehyde (1) (10.0 g, 58.1 mmol) in dry THF (200 mL) was cooled
to 0 'C, and imidazole (12.0 g, 174 mmol) and tert-butyldimethylsilyl chloride (TBSCl) (13.1 g,
                                                           60

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
87.1 mmol) were added sequentially. After stirring at room temperature for 16 h the reaction
mixture was filtered and the solvent evaporated. The residue was taken up in EtOAc (500 mL),
washed with saturated aqueous NH4Cl (100 mL), water (100 mL), and brine (100 mL), and dried
over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue purified by flash
chromatography on silica gel (2% EtOAc/hexane), yielding 2 (14.8 g, 90%) as a pale yellow
solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 10.22 (s, 1H), 9.30 (d, J= 8.10 Hz, 1H), 8.27 (d, J= 8.1
Hz, 1H), 7.86 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.69 (ddd, J = 8.4, 7.0, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.57 (ddd, J = 8.4, 7.0, 1.3
Hz, 1H), 6.95 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 1H), 1.10 (s, 9H), 0.36 (s, 6H)
Preparation of (Z)-Methyl 2-(tert-Butyloxycarbonyl)amino-3-[1-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)naphthalen-4-yl]acrylate (4);
A solution of (MeO) 2P(O)CH(NHBoc)CO 2Me, 3 (23.0 g, 52.7 mmol) in dry CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL)
was charged with DBU (10.1 mL, 67.3 mmol), and the mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0 'C. A
solution of 1 (14.8 g, 51.74 mmol) in dry CH 2 Cl 2 (60 mL) was added slowly via syringe, and the
reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature over 16 h. After the solvent was removed
under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (500 mL), quickly washed with
saturated aqueous NH 4 Cl (2 x 150 mL) and brine (200 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent
was evaporated and the crude product purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (20%
EtOAc/hexane with 1% NEt), yielding 4 (20.0 g, 85%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz,
CDCl 3 ): 6 8.23 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.93 (dd, J= 8.6, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 7.57 (d, J=
8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.53-7.47 (m, 2H), 6.85 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.05 (brs, 1H), 3.88 (s, 3H), 1.30 (s,
9H), 1.09 (s, 9H), 0.30 (s, 6H).
Preparation of Methyl 2-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-3-(4-(tert
butyldimethylsilyloxy)naphthalen-1-yl)propanoate(5);
A suspension of 4 (17.2 g, 37.6 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (3.40 g) in EtOH (200 mL) was degassed
and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm, balloon) for 16 h at room temperature. The
reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was washed with MeOH. The
filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford 5 (17.0 g, 99%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (300
MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.23 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.57-7.44 (m, 2H), 7.10 (d, J
= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 6.77 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 5.07-4.94 (brs, 1H), 4.74-4.61 (m, 1H), 3.66 (s, 3H),
3.55-3.17 (m, 2H), 1.40 (s, 9H), 1.18 (s, 9H), 0.30 (s, 6H).
                                                 61

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Methyl 2-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-3-(4-hydroxynaphthalen-1
yl)propanoate (6);
A solution of 5 (17.0 g, 37.0 mmol) in dry THF (200 mL) at 0 'C was charged with
tetrabutylammonium fluoride (48.1 mL, 48.1 mmol). The resulting solution was stirred for 15
min and quenched with saturated aqueous NH 4 Cl (150 mL). After the solvent was removed
under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (500 mL), quickly washed with
saturated aqueous water (2 x 150 mL) and brine (200 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent
was evaporated and the crude product purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (25%
EtOAc/hexane), yielding rotamer 6 (14.0 g, 94%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz,
CDCl3): 6 8.23 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.98 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.57-7.44 (m, 2H), 7.07 (d, J = 8.0
Hz, 1H), 6.68 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.55 (brs, 1H), 5.14-4.85 (brs, 1H), 4.77-4.51 (m, 1H), 3.78
3.31 (m, 5H), 1.40 (s, 6H), 1.10 (s, 3H).
Preparation of compounds 7 and 8;
CHIRALPAK AD column 5 cm I.D x 50 cm L, particle 20p was used to separate enantiomers
using isocratic system IPA/Heptane (7.5% with 0.4% DEA). 8.0 g of racemic compound 6 was
purified by the column to afford S-isomer 8 (3.5 g, 44% yield) as a white solid and R-isomer 7
(2.2 g, 28%) as a white solid.
Preparation of (S)-methyl 2-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-3-[4
(trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy)naphthalen-1-yl]propanoate (9);
A solution of compound 8 (1.22 g, 3.53 mmol) in pyridine (20 mL) was charged with triflate (0.9
mL, 5.30 mmol) at 0 'C, and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After
concentration, the reaction mixture was partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (50
mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 50 mL). The combined
organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated to afford
compound 9 (1.51 g, 89%) as a brown oil: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.19-8.07 (m, 2H),
7.69-7.64 (m, 2H), 7.38 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 5.12-5.06 (brs, 1H), 4.78
4.67 (m, 1H), 3.68-3.46 (m, 5H), 1.39 (s, 8H), 1.25 (s, 1H).
Preparation of (S)-methyl 3-{4-[4-(benzyloxycarbonylamino)but-1-ynyl]naphthalen-1-yl}-2
(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)propanoate (11); A solution of compound 9 (1.50 g, 3.14 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (60 mL) was charged with TEA (1.27 mL, 12.6 mmol), 10% (t-Bu) 3 P in
hexanes (1.27 mL, 0.62 mmol), benzyl but-3-ynylcarbamate (10, 948 mg, 4.71 mmol), and Cul
                                                 62

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
(30 mg, 0.16 mmol) at room temperature. The resulting mixture was degassed with argon for 10
min and Pd(PPh 3)4 (363 mg, 0.31 mmol) was charged rapidly in one portion. After degassing
with argon for 5 min, the resulting mixture was refluxed for 16 h. The reaction mixture was
concentrated under vacuum and the residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
60:40 ethyl acetate/hexanes) to afford compound 11 (1.30 g, 78%) as a brown oil: 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.33 (dd, J = 7.5, 2.2 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (dd, J = 7.5, 2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.58-7.51 (m, 2H),
7.52 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.35-7.29 (m, 5H), 7.19 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 5.16-5.12 (m, 1H), 5.13 (s,
2H), 5.07-4.99 (m, 1H), 4.74-4.65 (m, 1H), 3.59 (s, 3H), 3.91-3.42 (m, 2H), 3.53 (d, J= 6.2 Hz,
2H), 2.79 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 1.39 (s, 8H), 1.25 (s, 1H).
Preparation of acetic acid salt of (S)-methyl 3-(4-(4-aminobutyl)naphthalen-1-yl)-2-(tert
butoxycarbonylamino)propanoate (12);
A suspension of 11(1.00 g, 1.88 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (200 mg) in a mixture of MeOH (20 mL)
and AcOH (2 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at
room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was
washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 12 (820
mg, 95%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.17-8.05 (m, 2H), 7.62-7.48 (m,
2H), 7.27 (brs, 2H), 4.47 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 3.75-3.51 (m, 5H), 3.13 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.93 (t,
J= 7.66 Hz, 2H), 1.93 (s, 3H), 1.88-1.65 (m, 4H), 1.34 (s, 7H), 1.01 (s, 2H).
Preparation of (S)-methyl 2-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-3-(4-{4-[3-(3,        5-diamino-6
chloropyrazine-2-carbonyl)guanidino]butyl}naphthalen-1-yl)propanoate (14); A solution of
amine salt 12 (815 mg, 1.77 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 1.1 g, 2.83 mmol) in EtOH (6.0 mL) was charged with DIPEA
(2.50 mL, 14.2 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a sealed
tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was
purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to afford
guanidine 14 (870 mg, 80%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.17-8.07 (m,
2H), 7.58-7.48 (m, 2H), 7.26 (q, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 4.56-3.68 (m, 1H), 3.75-3.68 (m, 1H), 3.64 (s,
2H), 3.58-3.43 (m, 2H), 3.13 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 2.98 (q, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.86-1.70 (m, 4H),
 1.33 (s, 7H), 0.98 (s, 2H).
(S)-2-(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)-3-(4-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)naphthalen-1-yl)propanoic acid (15); A solution of methyl ester 14
                                                 63

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
(510 mg, 0.83 mmol) in a mixture of THF (3 mL), methanol (3 mL), and water (1 mL) was
charged with solid LiOH (120 mg, 4.99 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 2 h. When TLC of the reaction mixture showed completion of the reaction, the
pH of the reaction mixture was brought to 9-10 by addition of 1 N HCl (aqueous) and the
organic solvent was removed. The pH of the aqueous part was adjusted to 5-6, and the resulting
precipitate was extracted with dichloromethane. The aqueous part was extracted with DCM (2 x
50 mL). The organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated to
afford compound 15 (375 mg, 76%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.22
8.02 (m, 2H), 7.59-7.47 (m, 2H), 7.34-7.22 (m, 2H), 6.82 (brs, 2H), 4.19-4.06 (m, 1H), 3.59
3.46 (m, 1H), 3.25-3.13 (m, 2H), 3.09-2.94 (m, 10H), 1.80-1.55 (m, 4H), 1.28 (s, 7H), 0.93 (s,
2H).
Preparation of the HCI salt of (S)-2-amino-3-(4-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)naphthalen-1-yl)propanoic acid (16); 4 N HCl in dioxane (8.0 mL)
was added to 15 (258 mg, 0.43 mmol) followed by water (4.0 mL) and the reaction mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed and the residue was lyophilized to
give compound 16 (250 mg, 99%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.54
(brs, 1H), 9.33 (t, J= 5.92 Hz, 1H), 9.03-8.80 (m, 2H), 8.60 (brs, 3H), 8.17 (ddd, J= 10.1, 7.6,
4.5 Hz, 2H), 7.59 (ddd, J= 9.2, 6.7, 4.5 Hz, 2H), 7.46-7.36 (m, 2H), 7.34 (dd, J= 9.9, 7.5 Hz,
2H), 4.13-4.02 (m, 1H), 3.75-3.44 (m, 3H), 3.43-3.33 (m, 2H), 3.09 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 1.81
 1.62 (m, 4H).
2. Preparation of (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3-(4-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)
6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (23)
                                    Scheme 3
                                                64

    WO 2014/099676                                                                        PCT/US2013/075108
H3 CO 2 C S                                      NaOH              HO2 C
    BocH                                 MeOfH/THF/H 2 0             BocHIN
                   11             NHCbz                                               17            NHCbz
                                                         DEPBT/DIPEA
                                                                     THN                          H3
                        H3C  N                         0
                                                                                          8
                                                   HE              I
                                                    BocHN             /
                                                         19                          NHCbz
                                CH
                                3                    N       Pd/C, H2
                                                             MeOH, AcOH
                         H3C        >H           N      O
                                                     H      z
                                                      BocHN             /NH,
                                                         20
                                 Cl   N              SCH     DIPEA, EtOH
                               H 2N   N    NH 2
                                          21
               H3CN
                      HN
                                           0
                                        N2H2N                        N                   NH          2
                                                                               N
                                                                              NN      O          Cl
                                        H        T 2
                                                                             H     H
                                                         22                        H2 N     N    NH 2
                                                          ( 4 N aq HCt, dioxane
               H3CI N           -*'        0
                                        N       -NHO0
                                        H     NH 2                              k~          N    CI
                                                                             H     H
                                                                23H:N                       N INH   2
Preparation of (S)-methyl 3-{4- [4-(benzyloxycarbonylamino)but- 1-ynyllnaphthalen- l-yl}-2
(tert-butoxycarbonylamino)propanoate (17);
A solution of methyl ester 11 (1.71 g, 3.22 mmol) in a mixture of THF (21 mL), methanol (21
mL), and water (7.0 mL) was charged with solid NaOH (1.29 g, 32.3 mmol) and the reaction
mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. When TLC of the reaction mixture showed
completion of the reaction, the pH of the reaction mixture was brought to 9-10 by addition of 1
                                                      65

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
N HCl (aqueous) and the organic solvent was removed. The pH of the aqueous part was adjusted
to 5-6, and the resulting precipitate was extracted with dichloromethane. The aqueous part was
extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 50 mL). The organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 ,
filtered, and concentrated to afford compound 17 (1.55 g, 93%) as a brown solid: 'H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.32 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 8.13-8.05 (m, 1H), 7.58-7.48 (m, 4H), 7.38-7.29
(m, 5H), 5.21-5.15 (m, 1H), 5.12 (s, 2H), 5.07-4.93 (m, 1H), 4.70-4.54 (m, 1H), 3.77-3.62 (m,
 1H), 3.57-3.35 (m, 2H), 2.84-2.68 (m, 2H), 1.37 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 19; The compound 18 (100 mg, 0.56 mmol) in THF (2.5 mL) was
charged with DEPBT (218 mg, 0.72 mmol), 17 (289 mg, 0.56 mmol), and DIPEA (0.3 mL, 1.68
mmol) successively and stirred at room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed
under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with
saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (2 x 50 mL) and brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent
was evaporated and the crude product purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (8%
methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 19 (250 mg, 66%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCl3): 6 8.34 (dd, J= 8.3, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 8.21 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.61-7.47 (m, 4H), 7.39-7.27
(m, 5H), 7.16 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 2H), 7.05 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 2H), 5.36-5.19 (m, 2H), 5.12 (s, 2H),
4.36-4.53 (m, 1H), 3.66-3.42 (m, 4H), 2.79 (t, J = 6.6 Hz, 2H), 2.57 (t, J = 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.40 (t, J
= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.32 (s, 6H), 1.86-1.75 (m, 2H), 1.39 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 20; A suspension of 19 (210 mg, 0.31 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (150
mg) in a mixture of MeOH (3.0 mL) and AcOH (0.3 mL) was degassed and subjected to
hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 12 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was
filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was
concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 22 which was neutralized with triethylamine, and
the crude product was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (CMA, 80:18:2) yielding
free amine 20 (130 mg, 77%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.24 (dd, J= 8.1,
2.1 Hz, 1H), 8.08 (dd, J= 8.2, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.58-7.47 (m, 2H), 7.33-7.20 (m, 4H), 7.07-7.05 (m,
2H), 4.53 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 3.66-3.55 (m, 2H), 3.09 (t, J = 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.82 (t, J = 7.4 Hz,
2H), 2.57 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.35 (dd, J=10.5, 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.24 (s, 6H), 1.84-1.61 (m, 6H),
1.36 (s, 7H), 1.10 (s, 2H).
Preparation of 22; A solution of amine 20 (122 mg, 0.22 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6
chloropyrazine-2-carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 139 mg, 0.35 mmol) in EtOH (4.0 mL) was
                                                 66

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
charged with DIPEA (0.31 mL, 1.76 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was
heated at 70 'C in a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under
vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2
CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to afford guanidine 22 (111 mg, 66%) as a yellow solid: 'H NMR (400
MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.23 (dd, J= 7.5, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.57-7.48 (m, 2H),
7.29 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 7.24 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 2H), 7.13-7.05 (m, 2H), 4.53 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H),
3.60-3.37 (m, 2H), 3.23 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 3.15-3.03 (m, 2H), 2.55 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 2.29 (dd,
J= 9.7, 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (s, 6H), 1.86-1.64 (m, 6H), 1.36 (s, 7H), 1.12 (s, 2H).
Preparation of the HCI salt of Compound 23 (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3-(4-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)
6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
4 N HCl in dioxane (3.0 mL) was added to 22 (100 mg, 0.13 mmol) followed by water (1.0 mL)
and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed and
neutralized with IN NaOH (aqueous), the resulting solid was washed with water and again
treated with 1 N HCl (aqueous), water was removed, and the residue was lyophilized to afford
compound 22 (65 mg, 65%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 10.50 (s, 1H),
10.48 (s, 1H), 10.46-10.40 (m, 1H), 9.26 (t, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 9.01-8.74 (m, 2H), 8.61 (brs, 1H),
8.35 (dd, J= 6.6, 3.4 Hz, 1H), 8.13 (dd, J= 6.5, 3.3 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (ddd, J= 9.9, 6.6, 3.6 Hz, 2H),
7.42 (brs, 1H), 7.40 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.16
(d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 4.29-4.20 (m, 1H), 3.64-3.49 (m, 2H), 3.12-3.03 (m, 2H), 3.02-2.94 (m,
2H), 2.72 (s, 3H), 2.70 (s, 3H), 2.56 (t, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 1.97-1.88 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.61 (m, 4H).
3. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (28)
                                              Scheme 4
                                                  67

     WO 2014/099676                                                                                      PCT/US2013/075108
                                C6A3,N-                     C6H131 N                          0
                                     36 1I                                                    O
                                         sugar       *NII
HO 2 C s4                                                  NH 2        sugarN
  BocHN
                                  I
                                      DEPBT/DIPEA
                                                                                          ~HE
                                                                                           BocHN
                                               THF
                                                                                               25                    NHCbz
                    17               NHCbz
                                                                                               Pd/C, H2
                             6    13                           B                               EtOH, AcOH
                                                                  N
                                                               BtocH                             NH 2
                             Xl 3                                 26
                     OH 0       O
          sugar=                                                          Cl        0    NH HI
                        OH )OH                                            C    N,      N   SCH3
                                                   DIPEA, EtOH           HN    N    NH
                                                                                    21
                 C6H13N        uN
                                                                                                    O   N
                               1-.N                                                       NHO0
                                                   H
                                                               BocNN -~NC1
                       HO                                                              H    H
                                                                  27                         H2N      N  NH2
                   HO,, (
                             ) OH
                 HO,, (R)                                               4 N aq HC1, EtOH
                       (S) 'OH
                         N                             0
                                                   N                                      NH O
                                                   HNC
                                                          NH 2                                    ~   N   C1
                                                                                       H    H
                                                                  28                         H2N      N   NH 2
Preparation of Compound 25;
The compound 24 (165 mg, 0.38 mmol) in THF (10 mL) was charged with DEPBT (148 mg,
0.48 mmol), 17 (200 mg, 0.38 mmol), and DIPEA (0.2 mL, 1.14 mmol) successively and stirred
at room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (2 x 50 mL)
and brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (8% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 25 (210
mg, 60%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.35 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 8.21 (d, J=
8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.63-7.52 (m, 2H), 7.51 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.44-7.39 (m, 1H), 7.37-7.27 (m, 6H),
7.16-7.02 (m, 3H), 5.24-5.16 (m, 1H), 5.13 (s, 2H), 4.68 (ddd, J= 11.3, 10.3, 5.1 Hz, 1H), 4.56
(q, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 4.19-4.09 (m, 1H), 3.90-3.76 (m, 5H), 3.74-3.68 (m, 1H), 3.63-3.46 (m,
                                                                    68

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
5H), 3.45-3.24 (m, 3H), 2.80 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 2.70-2.35 (m, 8H), 1.81-1.67 (m, 2H), 1.63
1.53 (m, 1H), 1.35-1.20 (m, 6H), 1.21 (s, 9H), 1.31 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H), 0.87 (t, J= 6.2 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 26;
A suspension of 25 (280 mg, 0.30 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (560 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (9.0 mL)
and AcOH (1.0 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 4 h at
room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was
washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 22, which
was neutralized with NaHCO 3, and the crude product was purified by flash chromatography on
silica gel (CMA, 80:18:2) yielding free amine 26 (160 mg, 67%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400
MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.29 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 8.07 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.60 (t, J = 6.9 Hz, 1H), 7.55
(ddd, J= 8.2, 6.9, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 7.24 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H), 7.02-7.96 (m,
 1H), 7.95-6.88 (m, 2H), 6.77-6.69 (m, 1H), 5.56-5.35 (m, 1H), 4.68 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 4.61
4.53 (m, 1H), 4.12 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 3.89-3.80 (m, 2H), 3.74 (t, J= 3.3 Hz, 2H), 3.46
(d, J= 3.8 Hz, 1H), 3.39 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 2H), 3.18 -3.09 (m, 1H), 3.02-2.92 (m, 1H), 2.68 (t, J=
7.1 Hz, 2H), 2.61-2.47 (m, 5H), 2.46-2.37 (m, 4H), 1.77-1.63 (m, 4H), 1.33 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H),
 1.31-1.20 (m, 8H), 1.21 (s, 9H), 0.88 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 27;
A solution of amine 26 (155 mg, 0.20 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 123 mg, 0.31 mmol) in EtOH (8.0 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (0.28 mL, 1.56 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) followed by
reverse-phase chromatography (Gold C18) to afford guanidine 27 (100 mg, 51%) as a yellow
solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3OD): 6 8.23 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H),
7.56-7.49 (m, 2H), 7.29 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 2H), 7.24 (d, J = 7.4 Hz, 2H), 7.08 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 2H),
4.67 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 4.56-4.50 (m, 1H), 4.04 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 3.92-3.86 (m, 1H),
3.82-3.74 (m, 2H), 3.51-3.46 (m, 1H), 3.25 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 3.15-3.06 (m, 2H), 2.71 (dd, J=
13.2, 5.2 Hz, 1H), 2.60-2.45 (m, 6H), 1.87-1.63 (m, 6H), 1.48-1.40 (m, 6H), 1.33-1.26 (m, 6H),
1.23 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H), 1.20 (s, 9H), 0.89 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of the HCI salt of Compound 28 - 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
                                                 69

     WO 2014/099676                                                          PCT/US2013/075108
oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide;           4N
HCl in water (3.0 mL) was added to 27 (80 mg, 0.08 mmol) in ethanol (0.5 mL) and the reaction
mixture was stirred at 40 'C for 6 h. The solvent was removed, an additional 4 N HCl was
added, and the mixture was heated at 40 'C for another 4 h. The solvent was removed, water was
added, and the residue was lyophilized to afford compound 28 (78 mg, 99%) as a yellow solid:
IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.58 (brs, 1H), 10.56 (brs, 1H), 9.70-9.58 (m, 1H), 9.38
9.31 (m, 1H), 9.04-8.84 (m, 2H), 8.70 (brs, 1H), 8.43-8.34(m, 1H), 8.16-8.08 (m, 1H), 7.62
7.52 (m, 2H), 7.46-7.37 (m, 4H), 7.34 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H), 7.27 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (d, J=
8.1 Hz, 2H), 5.52-5.46 (m, 1H), 4.85-4.76 (m, 1H), 4.68-4.52 (m, 2H), 4.49-4.37 (m, 1H),
4.32-4.22 (m, 1H), 4.05-3.97 (m, 1H), 3.72-3.43 (m, 6H), 3.17-2.97 (m, 8H), 2.02-1.90 (m,
2H), 1.77-1.54 (m, 6H), 1.33-1.21 (m, 6H), 0.86 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 3H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.23 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 8.17 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.62-7.53 (m,
2H), 7.41-7.36 (m, 1H), 7.35-7.32 (m, 1H), 7.31-7.25 (m, 2H), 7.21-7.12 (m, 2H), 4.35-4.25
(m, 1H), 4.17-4.02 (m, 1H), 3.86-3.75 (m, 2H), 3.73-3.59 (m, 6H), 3.23-3.08 (m, 9H), 2.73
2.60 (m, 2H), 2.11-1.97 (m, 2H), 1.91-1.75 (m, 4H), 1.74-1.62 (m, 2H), 1.44-1.30 (m, 6H), 0.92
(t, J= 6.6 Hz, 3H)
4. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6
pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (33)
                                      Scheme 5
                                                70

     WO 2014/099676                                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
                                          sugar-_ N- sugar
                                                         sugar,
 HO                                H2 N                  sg        sugarO              N
  BocHN                             DEPBT/ DIPEA/THF                                     IcHN
                                                                                           30                  NHCbz
              17                    NHCbz
                                                                                       Pd/C, H2
                            sugar,                                                     EtOH, AcOH
                                      sugar                  N
                                                             N
                    CH3
             OH O      O                                       ocH                            NH.AcOH
   sugar=                                                        31             O    NH
               OH  OH                                                 ClINN
                                                DIPEA, EtOH                        HS     3
                                                                     H2 N   N   NH 2 *H1
                sugar,                                                          21
                         N                          O
                         sugar                                                         NHO
                                                   ocH          I                   N    N       N  Cl
                                                                                    H    H
                       HO
                                                                 32                       H2N    N   NH 2
                   HO,,,
                           (R)  OH                                  4 N aq HCl, EtOH
                HO,, (R)OH
                       (S)'O
                         N                          0                                                C
                               ~OH
                                (SjN                                                   NHO0
                                  ' OH           H      NH 2                         NN          N>~C
                                            (PH                                           H
                           HO                                    33                       H2N    N   NH 2
Preparation of Compound 30:
Compound 29 (290 mg, 0.54 mmol) in THF (8.0 mL) was charged with DEPBT (210 mg, 0.70
mmol), 17 (311 mg, 0.60 mmol), and DIPEA (0.28 mL, 1.62 mmol) successively and stirred at
room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (2 x 50 mL)
and brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (8% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 30 (400
mg, 72%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3): 6 8.36-8.26 (m, 1H), 8.20-8.09 (m,
 1H), 8.03-7.85 (m, 1H), 7.61-7.46 (m, 1H), 7.49 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 7.38-7.28 (m, 5H), 7.18
6.96 (m, 4H), 5.51-5.36 (m, 1H), 5.32-5.21 (m, 1H), 5.12 (s, 2H), 4.67 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 2H), 4.66
4.53 (m, 1H), 4.11 (dd, J= 10.4, 5.2 Hz, 2H), 4.06-3.96 (m, 2H), 3.93-3.86 (m, 2H), 3.86-3.77
(m, 2H), 3.68-3.56 (m, 2H), 3.56-3.44 (m, 6H), 3.39 (t, J = 10.4 Hz, 2H), 3.05 (q, J = 7.6 Hz,
                                                                 71

    WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
2H), 2.96-2.88 (m, 2H), 2.79 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 2H), 2.64-2.61 (m, 4H), 1.93-1.72 (m, 4H), 1.48
1.40 (m, 2H), 1.35 (s, 9H), 1.29 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of Compound 31;
A suspension of 30 (400 mg, 0.39 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (210 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (54 mL)
and AcOH (6.0 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 4 h at
room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was
washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 31 (333
mg, 84%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.25 (dd, J= 7.5, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 8.10
(d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.60-7.51 (m, 2H), 7.36-7.32 (m, 1H), 7.31 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 7.26 (d, J=
7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.15 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 4.70 (q, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 4.54 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 4.18
4.10 (m, 2H), 4.06 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.3 Hz, 2H), 3.87-3.82 (m, 2H), 3.81-3.68 (m, 3H), 3.53 (dd, J
= 9.5, 1.8 Hz, 2H), 3.39 (t, J= 9.2 Hz, 3H), 3.35-3.30 (m, 2H), 3.15-3.08 (m, 2H), 2.92 (t, J=
8.0 Hz, 2H), 2.09-2.00 (m, 4H), 2.77-2.58 (m, 2H), 1.95 (s, 6H), 1.88-1.60 (m, 4H), 1.36 (s,
9H), 1.25 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of 32; A solution of 31 (370 mg, 0.36 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6
chloropyrazine-2-carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 226 mg, 0.58 mmol) in EtOH (12 mL) was
charged with DIPEA (0.51 mL, 2.88 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was
heated at 70 'C in a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under
vacuum. The residue was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2
CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to afford guanidine 32 (250 mg, 63%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400
MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.23 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 8.13-8.03 (m, 1H), 7.54-7.49 (m, 2H), 7.30-7.20 (m,
4H), 7.13-7.04 (m, 2H), 4.67 (q, J= 4.9 Hz, 2H), 4.54-4.49 (m, 1H), 4.03 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.4 Hz,
2H), 3.91-3.84 (m, 2H), 3.82-3.72 (m, 5H), 3.48-3.43 (m, 5H), 3.41-3.34 (m, 2H), 3.13-3.10
(m, 2H), 2.68-2.50 (m, 8H), 1.87-1.67 (m, 6H), 1.36 (s, 9H), 1.23 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of 33 -3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
4 N HCl in water (6.0 mL) was added to 32 (200 mg, 0.18 mmol) in ethanol (2.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at 40 'C for 8 h. The solvent was removed, an additional 4N HCl
was added, and the mixture was heated at 40 'C for another 6 h. The solvent was removed, the
mixture was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), and the residue was
                                                  72

    WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
lyophilized to afford compound 33 (138 mg, 59%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.48 (brs, 1H), 10.45-10.41 (m, 1H), 9.25-9.19 (m, 1H), 8.95-8.85 (m, 1H),
8.81-8.69 (m, 1H), 8.64-8.46 (m, 4H), 8.36-8.29 (m, 1H), 8.18-8.10 (m, 1H), 7.62-7.55 (m,
2H), 7.46-7.38 (m, 4H), 7.34 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (d, J= 8.7 Hz,
2H), 5.48-5.39 (m, 2H), 4.87-4.75 (m, 2H), 4.68-4.33 (m, 4H), 4.28-4.17 (m, 1H), 4.05-3.93
(m, 2H), 3.72-3.65 (m, 2H), 3.62-3.53 (m, 4H), 3.52-3.35 (m, 8H), 3.27-3.13 (m, 6H), 3.3.10
3.00 (m, 2H), 2.62-2.48 (m, 4H), 2.03-1.90 (m, 2H), 1.78-1.61 (m, 4H).
1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.24-8.20 (m, 1H), 8.18-8.15 (m, 1H), 7.57 (td, J= 4.6, 1.5 Hz,
2H), 7.38 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (dd, J= 8.4, 2.6 Hz, 2H), 7.16 (dd, J
= 8.4, 2.0 Hz, 2H), 4.28 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 1H), 4.19-4.13 (m, 1H), 4.12-4.07(m, 1H), 3.85-3.79 (m,
2H), 3.77(dd, J= 10.4, 5.2 Hz, 2H), 3.73-3.60 (m, 6H), 3.49-3.45 (m, 2H), 3.42-3.34 (m, 6H),
3.26-3.23 (m, 1H), 3.19-3.13 (m, 2H), 3.14-3.11 (m, 1H), 2.74-2.59 (m, 2H), 2.14-2.00 (m,
2H), 1.90-1.72 (m, 4H).
5. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3-(4-(3-((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexylamino)propyl)phenylamino)propyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (38)
                                          Scheme 6
                                                 73

     WO 2014/099676                                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
                                               BocN-sugar
                                                      BocN                       O
         HOCSH                     2N                     sugar
 HO2 C S                                            34                        N
                                                                              H:
  Boc                                 DEPBT/ DIPEA/THF                         Bo
                                                                                    35                       NHCbz
                  17            NHCbz
                                                                                  Pd/C, H 2
                                                   0                              EtOH, AcOH
                      BocN
                         sugarN
                                                H
                                                 BocHN
                                                                                 NH 2.2AcOH
                                                      36
                                      0     NH.HI                                                       X3
                                  C N N       'SCH      DIPEA, EtOH
                                                   3                                               OH O    O
                          H2N   N     NH 2                                              sugar -   (
                                      21
                                                                                                     OH  OH
           BocN                        O
               sugar               NNH
                                    BocHI                              N   N         N       C1
                                                                       H    H
                                                                            H2 N     N      NH 2
                                                        4 N aq HCl, EtOH
                                  NN 00                                  N
                (S0)        N     N       -NHO0
                   -) \1          H      NH 2                                       N>CI
                                                                                    N~
            HO        R                                               H H
                  ITO38H                                                     2      NINH2
Preparation of Compound 35;
Compound 34 (400 mg, 0.91 mmol) in THF (15 mL) was charged with DEPBT (389 mg, 1.30
mmol), 17 (516 mg, 1.00 mmol), and DIPEA (0.52 mL, 3.00 mmol) successively and stirred at
room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (2 x 50 mL)
and brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (8% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 35 (700
mg, 83%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.35 (dd, J= 8.2, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 8.22
(d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.64-7.35 (m, 4H), 7.38-7.26 (m, 5H), 7.06 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 7.17-7.09
(m, 2H), 5.21-5.13 (m, 2H), 5.12 (s, 2H), 4.69 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 4.55 (q, J= 7.25 Hz, 1H),
                                                           74

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
4.15 (dd, J= 11.4, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 4.11-4.02 (m, 1H), 4.07-3.92 (m, 1H), 3.88-3.77 (m, 1H), 3.73
3.67 (m, 1H), 3.64-3.49 (m, 5H), 3.41 (d, J=10.6 Hz, 2H), 3.37-3.30 (m, 2H), 3.29-3.20 (m,
3H), 2.80 (t, J= 6.2 Hz, 2H), 2.52 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.76 (m, 3H), 1.42 (s, 18 H), 1.32 (d,
J = 5.2 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 36;
A suspension of 35 (700 mg, 0.74 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (400 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (90 mL)
and AcOH (10 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at
room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was
washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 36 (650
mg, 95%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.20 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.96 (d, J=
7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.86-7.71 (m, 1H), 7.70-7.63 (m, 1H), 7.58-7.43(m, 2H), 7.36-7.26 (m, 2H), 7.02
6.91 (m, 2H), 4.70-4.63 (m, 1H), 4.61-4.54 (m, 1H), 4.20-4.05 (m, 2H), 4.04-3.90 (m, 1H),
3.89-3.68 (m, 3H), 3.67-3.46 (m, 3H), 3.45-3.27 (m, 5H), 3.29-3.21 (m, 4H), 3.11-2.91 (m,
4H), 2.90-2.76 (m, 2H), 2.48 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 2.08 (s, 6H), 1.86-1.61 (m, 6H), 1.41 (s, 15H),
 1.32 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H), 1.25 (s, 3H).
Preparation of 37;
A solution of 36 (650 mg, 0.70 mmol) and methyl 3, 5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 436 mg, 1.13 mmol) in EtOH (12 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (0.90 mL, 5.60 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 37 (444 mg, 62%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.23 (dd, J= 7.7,
2.2 Hz, 1H), 8.10 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.57-7.47 (m, 2H), 7.33-7.21 (m, 4H), 7.08 (d, J= 8.1 Hz,
2H), 4.68 (q, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 4.53 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 4.04 (dd, J = 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.03-3.93
(m, 1H), 3.25 (ddd, J = 10.3, 9.2, 5.2 Hz, H), 3.71-3.65 (m, 1H), 3.58-3.37 (m, 4H), 3.27-3.20
(m, 4H), 3.20-3.15 (m, 1H), 3.14-3.05 (m, 2H), 2.66 (q, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 2.53 (t, J= 7.2 Hz,
2H), 1.89-1.76 (m, 4H), 1.76-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.36 (s, 6H), 1.42 (s, 9H), 1.25 (d, J= 5.0 Hz, 3H),
1.11 (s, 3H).
Preparation of the HCl salt of 38;
4 N HCl in water (6.0 mL) was added to 37 (240 mg, 0.23 mmol) in ethanol (3.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at 40 'C for 8 h. The solvent was removed, an additional 4N HCl
                                                 75

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
was added, and the mixture was heated at 40 'C for another 8 h. The solvent was removed, the
mixture was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), and the residue was
lyophilized to afford compound 38 (251 mg, 64%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.50 (brs, 1H), 9.28 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1H), 9.02-8.87 (m, 1H), 8.86-8.75 (m, 1H),
8.72-8.55 (m, 4H), 8.39-8.33 (m, 1H), 8.16-8.10 (m, 1H), 7.61-7.55 (m, 2H), 7.45-7.40 (m,
 1H), 7.40 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (d, J= 8.5
Hz, 2H), 5.38 (d, J= 4.3 Hz, 1H), 4.74 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 4.64-4.51 (m, 2H), 4.49-4.35 (m,
 1H), 4.30-4.20 (m, 2H), 3.94-3.86 (m, 1H), 3.70-3.64 (m, 1H), 3.63-3.52 (m, 3H), 3.51-3.34
(m, 6H), 3.15-2.98 (m, 3H), 2.98-2.81 (m, 3H), 2.58 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.96-1.85 (m, 2H),
 1.79-1.61 (m, 4H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.26-8.20 (m, 1H), 8.19-8.14 (m, 1H), 7.60-7.53 (m, 2H), 7.38
(d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (dd, J= 8.4, 2.0 Hz, 2H), 7.14 (d, J= 8.4 Hz,
2H), 4.29 (t, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 4.07-4.00 (m, 1H), 3.83 (dd, J= 9.8, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 3.77 (dd, J= 9.8,
2.6 Hz, 1H), 3.73-3.64 (m, 5H), 3.37 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 3.21-3.11 (m, 4H), 3.06-2.96 (m, 2H),
2.66 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 2H), 2.03-1.94 (m, 2H), 1.90-1.75 (m, 4H).
6. Preparation of (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3-(4-(6
(dimethylamino)hexyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6
chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (43)
                                                Scheme 7
                                                 76

      WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
                       HO2 C s
                         BocHI
                                          17              NHCbz          CH,
                        PivCl, NMM, THF       HN                         N CH3
                 CH 3                         HN       ~      3
           H3 C' N
                                         H
                                         BocHN
                                          40                   '          NHCbz
                                             Pd/C, H2
              CH 3                           EtOH, AcOH
         H3C,
                                      N O
                                      H      z
                                      BocHN                           NH 2-2AcOH
                                          41
                                                         0    NH-HI
                             DIPEA, EtOH      Cl    N         SCH 3
                                             H2N    N    NH 2
        CH3                                           21
 H 3C '                            ON
                                N     -NHO0
                                H
                                BocHN     4                                    N   Cl
                                             TFA, CH 2Cl 2             H 2N    N   NH 2
        CH 3
 H3C'
                                                                    NH    O
                                H      H2                         NkN          N   Cl
                                          43                      H   H
                                                                       H2 N    NNH    2
Preparation of Compound 40;
A solution of acid 17 (880 mg, 1.70 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was cooled to 0 'C in an ice bath.
NMM (0.37 mL, 3.40 mmol) was added, followed by PivCl (0.20 mL, 1.70 mmol), and the
reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 2 h. 39 (375 mg, 1.70 mmol, 15 mL
THF) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for a further 10
min. The reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and stirred for 16 h. The organic
                                                    77

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
solvent was removed. The residue was charged with water and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (3 x 100
mL). The organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (4% methanol in chloroform) to afford amide 40
(719 mg, 59%) as a light yellow solid: [M + H]* 720.
Preparation of Compound 41;
A suspension of 40 (719 mg, 1.00 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (300 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (110
mL) and AcOH (20 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 41 as
a yellow solid (660 mg, 93%): [M + H]+ 589.
Preparation of Compound 42;
A solution of amine 41 (660 mg, 0.93 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 650 mg, 1.67 mmol) in EtOH (10 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (1.66 mL, 9.3 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a
sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 42 (370 mg, 50%) as a yellow solid: [M + H]+ 801.
Preparation of the HCI salt of Compound 43 (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3-(4-(6
(dimethylamino)hexyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6
chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
TFA (10 mL) was added to 42 (370 mg, 0.46 mmol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (10 mL) and the reaction mixture
was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, an additional IN HCl was
added, and solvent was removed. The mixture was purified by reverse-phase chromatography
(Gold column) and the residue was lyophilized to afford compound 43 (290 mg, 92%) as a
yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 10.39 (brs, 2H), 9.25 (brs, 1H), 9.02-8.87 (m,
 1H), 8.86-8.73 (m, 2H), 8.71-8.44 (m, 2H), 8.35 (brs, 1H), 8.13 (dd, J= 6.8, 3.8 Hz, 1H), 7.58
(dd, J = 6.5, 3.2 Hz, 2H), 7.42 (brs, 2H), 7.35 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.27
(d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 4.26-4.18 (m, 1H), 3.65-3.48 (m, 2H), 3.39-3.32
(m, 3H), 3.06 (t, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H), 2.99-2.91 (m, 2H), 2.69 (s, 6H), 1.77-1.56 (m, 6H), 1.52 (t, J=
8.2 Hz, 2H), 1.34-1.21 (m, 4H).
                                                  78

     WO 2014/099676                                                                  PCT/US2013/075108
 H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.22-8.17 (m, 1H), 8.16-8.12 (m, 1H), 7.58-7.51 (m, 2H), 7.36
(d, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (d, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (d, J = 8.04 Hz, 2H), 7.05 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 2H),
4.24 (t, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 3.70-3.58 (m, 2H), 3.33 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 3.14 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H),
3.09-3.03 (m, 2H), 2.84 (s, 6H), 2.53 (t, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.73 (m, 4H), 1.72-1.63 (m, 2H),
1.61-1.52 (m, 2H), 1.41-1.32 (m, 4H).
7. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(6-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6
pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)hexyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
                                       Scheme 8
                           HO 2 C s
                            BocHN
                                            17               NHCbz
                                                                          Sugar
                                                              N   ~          Sugar
                            PivCl, NMM, THF    H 2N                      N4 Sug        O
                 Sugar
                NSugar                                                             HO
                 Su
                                                                                   O   OH
                                   "aN
                                               IPd/C,   H2
                                                EtOH, AcOHSS
                                                                K
                     Sugar
             Su gar NN
                                                      O
                                                 H
                                                  BocHN                          NH2AcOH
                                                     46
                                                                   0   NHH-I
                                                EtOH      C     N    NSCH3
                                                  oH     H2N    N  NH2 21
                                                     79

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
                    Sugar
        S u ga r' N                        N O
         OH                              H                                         N    C
                  OH                                                 N    N
          (R)                                 47                     H    H
       HO" (R) ,,OH                                                        H2 N    N    NH2
                  (R)                            4 N aq HCI, EtOH
          HO'
                      N0
                 (S)                         O
        HOi,.          OH                  N                              NH    0    -3HCI
                   (R)                     H     Z
              (R)                                NH,      /                          N     Cl
       HO             OH                      48                       NH   H
                     OH                                                      H2N     N     NH 2
Preparation of Compound 45;
A solution of acid 17 (900 mg, 1.74 mmol) in THF (40 mL) was cooled to 0 'C in an ice bath.
NMM (0.38 mL, 3.48 mmol) was added, followed by PivCl (0.21 mL, 1.74 mmol), and the
reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 2 h. 44 (1.21 g, 1.74 mmol, 20 mL
THF) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for a further 10
min. The reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and stirred for 16 h. The organic
solvent was removed. The residue was charged with water and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (3 x 100
mL). The organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (4% methanol in chloroform) to afford amide 45
(2.00 g, impure) as a light yellow solid: [M + H]+ 1196.
Preparation of Compound 46;
A suspension of 45 (2.00 g, impure) and 10% Pd/C (400 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (120 mL) and
AcOH (20 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at room
temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was washed
with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 46 , which was
neutralized with NaHCO 3 , and the crude product was purified by flash chromatography on silica
gel (CMA, 80:18:2) yielding free amine 46 as a yellow solid (500 mg, 27% over two steps): [M +
H]* 1067.
Preparation of Compound 47;
                                                  80

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
A solution of amine 46 (500 mg, 0.47 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 330 mg, 0.84 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (0.84 mL, 94.70 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C
in a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The
residue was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to
afford guanidine 47 (325 mg, 55%) as a yellow solid: [M + H]+ 1278.
Preparation of the HCI Salt Compound 48 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(6
(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)hexyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
4 N HCl in water (20 mL) was added to 47 (325 mg, 0.25 mmol) in EtOH (2.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), and the residue was lyophilized to
afford compound 48 (165 mg, 60%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.52
(brs, 1H), 10.44 (brs, 1H), 9.28 (t, J = 5.2 Hz, 1H), 9.00-8.88 (m, 1H), 8.87-8.75 (m, 1H), 8.63
(brs, 2H), 8.60-8.50 (m, 1H), 8.39-8.33 (m, 1H), 8.17-8.11 (m, 1H), 7.58 (dd, J= 6.5, 3.3 Hz,
2H), 7.47-7.35 (m, 2H), 7.36 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J = 6.8 hz, 1H), 7.27 (d, J= 3.6 Hz,
 1H), 7.11 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 3.72-3.66 (m, 3H), 3.60 (d, J= 3.6 Hz, 1H), 3.57 (d, J= 2.8 Hz,
 1H), 3.53-3.46 (m, 3H), 3.45-3.38 (m, 3H), 3.37-3.27 (m, 4H), 3.26- 3.12 (m, 4H), 3.06 (t, J=
8.5 Hz, 2H), 1.76-1.60 (m, 6H), 1.58-1.47 (m, 2H), 1.35-1.23 (m, 4H).
IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.23-8.18 (m, 1H), 8.17-8.12 (m, 1H), 7.59-7.52 (m, 2H), 7.36
(d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.31 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.04 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H),
4.25 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.18-4.10 (m, 2H), 3.83-3.79 (m, 2H), 3.77 (d, J = 3.1 Hz, 1H), 3.74 (d,
J = 3.5 Hz, 1H), 3.71-3.60 (m, 8H), 3.49-3.41 (m, 2H), 3.40-3.33 (m, 4H), 3.32-3.30 (m, 1H),
3.25-3.19 (m, 1H), 3.18-3.10 (m, 2H), 2.52 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.69 (m, 6H), 1.62-1.53
(m, 2H), 1.44-1.30 (m, 4H).
8. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3-(4-(6-((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexylamino)hexyl)phenylamino)propyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
                                    Scheme 9
                                                  81

    WO 2014/099676                                                                      PCT/US2013/075108
                               HO 2 C s
                                BocH
                                                  17             NHCbz       Sugar
                                                     H2N                     N, Boc
                               PivCl, NMM, THF
                    Sugar                                                       OH   OH
              BocN                              Ngar
                                                H                               Ph
                                                BocHN
                                                            50                NHCbz
                                                    Pd/C, H2
                   Sugar                            EtOH, AcOH
              Boc'N
                      n   0 <N                   N0
                                               H              |
                                               BocIHIN                       NH 2 -2AcOH
                                                   51
                                                                 0    NH-HI
                                                        Cl   N_    N    SCH3
                                     DIPEA, EtOH                   H
                                                     H2 N    N   NH 2
                   Sugar
                                                                13
                                              N                                 NH O
                                               H      z
                                               BocHIN                                     N    Cl
                                                  52                         H     H
                                                                                   H2 N   N    NH 2
                                                    4 N aq HCl, EtOH
 OH    OH     OHHI
                            H0
     -(R )(S)
   OH OH                                 'N(S
                                                 H       z
                                                        N H2                        N       NN Cl
                                                  53                           H     H
                                                                                     H2N    N    NH 2
Preparation of Compound 50;
A solution of acid 17 (950 mg, 1.84 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was cooled to 0 C in an ice bath.
NMM (0.40 mL, 3.68 mmol) was added, followed by PivCl (0.23 mL, 1.84 mmol), and the
reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 2 h. 49 (800 mg, 1.47 mmol, 10 mL
THF) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for a further 10
                                                         82

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
min. The reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and stirred for 16 h. The organic
solvent was removed. The residue was charged with water and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (3 x 100
mL). The organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (4% methanol in chloroform) to afford amide 50
(1.40 g, impure) as a light yellow solid: [M + H]* 1043.
Preparation of Compound 51;
A suspension of 50 (1.40 g, impure) and 10% Pd/C (400 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (120 mL) and
AcOH (20 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at room
temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was washed
with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 51, directly used in
the next step (1.20 g, crude): [M + H]+ 913.
Preparation of Compound 52;
A solution of amine 51 (1.20 g, 0.47 mmol, crude) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 723 mg, 1.86 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (2.00 mL, 11.6 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 52 (500 mg, 24% over three steps) as a yellow solid: [M + H]* 1125.
Preparation of the HCI Salt of Compound 53 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3
(4-(6-((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexylamino)hexyl)phenylamino)propyl)
naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
4 N HCl in water (25 mL) was added to 52 (500 mg, 0.44 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), and the residue was lyophilized to
afford compound 53 (170 mg, 41%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.52
(brs, 1H), 10.45-10.41 (m, 1H), 9.31-9.24 (m, 1H), 9.02-8.89 (m, 1H), 8.88-8.76 (m, 1H), 8.70
8.58 (m, 3H), 8.57-8.46 (m, 2H), 8.40-8.31 (m, 1H), 8.17-8.10 (m, 1H), 7.62-7.54 (m, 2H), 7.42
(brs, 2H), 7.36 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (d, J= 6.7 Hz, 1H), 7.27 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (d, J=
8.7 Hz, 2H), 5.41-5.35 (m, 1H), 4.79-4.72 (m, 1H), 4.62-4.53 (m, 2H), 4.47-4.38 (m, 1H),
4.29-4.19 (m, 1H), 3.94-3.87 (m, 1H), 3.63-3.52 (m, 3H), 3.50-3.39 (m, 3H), 3.38-3.32 (m,
                                                83

    WO 2014/099676                                                                        PCT/US2013/075108
2H), 3.12-2.96 (m, 3H), 2.97-2.90 (m, 1H), 2.89-2.80 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.56 (m, 6H), 1.54-1.45
(m, 2H), 1.35-1.20 (m, 4H).
IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.24-8.20 (m, 1H), 8.19-8.14 (m, 1H), 7.60-7.53 (m, 2H), 7.38
(d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.24-7.18 (m, 2H), 7.07 (d, J= 8.1Hz, 2H), 4.31
4.22 (m, 1H), 4.08-4.01 (m, 1H), 3.84 (dd, J= 4.8, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 3.77 (dd, J= 10.1, 2.5 Hz, 1H),
3.71-3.62 (m, 5H), 3.36 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 3.19-3.12 (m, 4H), 3.03-2.96 (m, 2H), 2.55 (t, J=
7.7 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.74 (m, 4H), 1.73-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.63-1.53 (m, 2H), 1.45-1.31 (m, 4H).
9. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(6-(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)hexyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
Scheme 10
                             HO 2 C
                              BocHIN
                                               17               NHCbz           Sugar
                                                                                N "C6H13
                              PivCl, NMM, THF         H2N
                  Sugar                               H4NOH                                OH
                                'IN                                                   (R)( 7 (5)
          C 6Hs                                 N                        sugar     -      (P)
                                                H
                                        55       BocHlN
                                    Pd/C, H 2                                  NHCbz
                                    EtOH, AcOH
                       Sugar
              C6 H1 3'
                                                    N
                                                    H     
                                                                K
                                              56    BocHN                          NH 2 -2AcOH
                                                                     0    NH-HI
                                         DIPEA, EtOH         C   NX         SCH3
                                                            H2N  N   NH 2 13
                                                      84

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
                 Sugar
          C6H13N
                                                                         NHO
                                                    H                    NH   0
                                     57   BocIHN                      N    N        N-   CI
                                                                      H     H      'A
   OH   OH    OH                                4 N aq HCI, EtOH            H2N     N    NH 2
           R       N
      OH   OH          1                            (SH
                                             N                             NH    0
                                             H     NH 2       0N            UN         NXCI
                                                58                       H    H
                                                                              H2 N     N    NH 2
Preparation of Compound 55; Compound 54 (770 mg, 1.45 mmol) in THF (50 mL) was
charged with DEPBT (564 mg, 1.88 mmol), 17 (752 mg, 1.45 mmol), and DIPEA (0.77 mL, 4.35
mmol) successively and stirred at room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed
under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with
saturated aqueous NaHCO 3 (2 x 100 mL) and brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4. The
solvent was evaporated and the crude product purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (5%
methanol/CH 2Cl 2) and by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), yielding amide 55 as a
yellow solid (800 mg, 54%): [M + H]' 1027.
Preparation of Compound 56;
A suspension of 55 (800 mg, 0.78 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (400 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (120
mL) and AcOH (30 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 56 as
a yellow solid (780 mg, 99%): [M + H]' 897.
Preparation of Compound 57;
A solution of amine salt 56 (780 mg, 0.75 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 466 mg, 1.20 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (1.37 mL, 7.67 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 57 (455 mg, 55%) as a yellow solid: [M + H] 1110.
                                                 85

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of the HCI Salt of Compound 58 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(6
(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)hexyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
4 N HCl in water (25 mL) was added to 57 (455 mg, 0.41 mmol) in ethanol (10 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The mixture was purified by reverse
phase chromatography (Gold column) and the residue was lyophilized to afford compound 58
(230 mg, 55%) as a yellow solid: H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 10.45 (brs, 1H), 9.30 (brs,
 1H), 9.09-8.49 (m, 3H), 8.41-8.32 (m, 1H), 8.16-8.08 (m, 1H), 7.62-7.52 (m, 2H), 7.42 (brs,
2H), 7.37 (t, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.32 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.27 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.10 (d, J= 8.1
Hz, 2H), 5.52-5.36 (m, 1H), 4.87-4.70 (m, 1H), 4.63-4.51 (m, 2H), 4.47-4.38 (m, 1H), 4.23 (t, J
= 6.7 Hz, 1H), 4.03-3.94 (m, 1H), 3.71-3.66 (m, 1H), 3.65-3.52 (m, 2H), 3.50-3.34 (m, 5H),
3.21(d, J= 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.12 (d, J= 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.09-2.96 (m, 6H), 1.77-1.58 (m, 8H), 1.57
 1.46 (m, 2H), 1.35-1.21 (m, 10 H), 0.86 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 3H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.26-8.20 (m, 1H), 8.19-8.12 (m, 1H), 7.60-7.51 (m, 2H), 7.38
(d, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.32 (d, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 2H), 7.06 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H),
4.26 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 4.16-4.09 (m, 1H), 3.82 (dd, J= 5.0, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (dd, J= 11.3, 3.2
Hz, 1H), 3.72-3.61 (m, 6H), 3.35 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 3.24-3.11 (m, 7H), 2.54 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H),
1.90-1.67 (m, 8H), 1.64-1.54 (m, 2H), 1.44-1.30 (m, 10 H), 0.92 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 3H).
10. Preparation of (S)-2-amino-3-(6-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)naphthalen-2-yl)propanoic acid (80)
                                                 Scheme 11
                                                  86

WO 2014/099676                                                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
                      S    CHO cdiin                                       C0 2R Pd/C, H,               O2
  H3 CO                                      HCO          6:R=eEtOH                                                 64        e      OCH,
                  59                                      63: REt                                                   65: REt
                ,Bn                ,Bn
                     BuNH   O--, .
                NH IHF             N"Li                                                               'Bni                    NaOH
                                   606yB                                                  CH     )Ni                          MeOH/THF /H2 0
                          60       61                                                 06        Li         C
                                                                  .,BnOCH              )rH02                  ,_,     -        -  N:
                                                                                  i-BCF, NMMOC
                                            0     0           67                         THEF                            66
            1. KHMDS, THF
            2. TrisylN3 , AcOH
            3. (CH 3 )N -AcO/O
        ~Bn                                                   OCH3                        C                                                  H
                                N3             OI-,     10     N3             ~      ~         H       AcOH1- 2N           -               H
                                          N NL-21-1                                       Pd/C/H'   2    HO
   0      0           68                   T/-10            0             69                                                 70
                                                                                           NH OH                               HBr, AcOI-IH
                                                                       NH2   ~~        AcCl, MeOH HBrHN
                         BOC2O, NaH-CO3           H3C                                                     Ho : 110'-..
                                    MeOH                  0          72                                         0            71
                                                                     0
              BocHN      -~ ~          OH
                                        HOTf 2O, Pyridine   H3CO                 ~
                    0        73               CH2 CI2                         74lTh                 OTf         Pd(PPh 3)4, CUt
                                                                    O                                           (t-Bu)3 P, Et3N
                                                                                               -,NHlCb          CH3CN
                                                                                           ~10
               0                                                                             0
         HO         'S                                              NaOH          H3 O
                             BoH                             MeOH/THF/H 2 0               BocHTN
                                      76                 NHCbz                                                 75                     NHCbz
         0
                                                                                 0
  H3 CO
       BocUN                                            - AcOH          HCO             I
                                                       NH 2                   BocHN                N
                                                             Pd/c, H2 (I atm)                           75                         NHCbz
                                                             EtOH/AcOH
                                                      OHI Cl          o     NH*HI
                                   DIPLA, EtH             C1NJNR              SCH3
                                             0          H2 N N         NH
                                                                        2
                        H3 CO         SNH                                                 0
                            BocHN                            78              NN                    NXCI
                                                                 78            H     H
                                                                                    H N,           N      NH 2
                                                           87

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
                                                        NaOH
                            0                           MeOH/THF/H 2 0
                         HBocIN       *NN                                 N <Cl
                                                         79        H 2N   N    NH 2
                                                      S4 Naq HCl, EtOH
                         HO                                     NH O
                                NTH 2                                     N    Cl
                                                     80            H 2N   N     NH 2
Preparation of Compound 62;
The stable Wittig ylide carbomthoxymethylenetriphenylphosphorane (Ph 3 PCHCO 2Me, 43.0 g,
129 mmol) was added to a solution of the aldehyde 59 (20.0 g, 107 mmol) in CH 2 Cl2 (200 mL)
under nitrogen atmosphere and the reaction mixture was stirred 16 h at ambient temperature.
TLC monitored the completion of the reaction (16 h). CH 2 Cl2 was removed under reduced
pressure and FCC using 10% ethyl acetate-hexanes gave the corresponding trans-ax,       -unsaturated
ester 62 (24.0 g, 92%) as a white solid: 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 7.88-7.82 (in, 1H), 8.81
(d, J = 15.8 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, 1H), 7.70 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.61 (dd, J = 8.8, 2.2 Hz,
1H), 7.15 (dd, J= 9.2, 2.2 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (d, J= 2.2 Hz, 1H), 6.49 (d, J= 15.8 Hz, 1H), 3.82 (s,
3H), 3.82 (s, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 62 (additional route);
To the Trimethyl phosphonoacetate (55.6 mL, 381 mmol) in 250 mL anhydrous CH 2Cl 2 cooled
to 0 oC was added DBU (48.8 mL, 322 mmol) and the mixture was stirred for 15 min Aldehyde
59 (40.0 g, 215 mmol) in 50 mL CH 2 Cl2 was added dropwise. The temperature of the reaction
mixture brought to rt and resulting reaction mixture was sturred at rt for 16 h, and then quenched
with 100 mL of Water. The mixture was partitioned, and the aq. layer was extracted with CH 2Cl 2
(3 x 150 mL). The combined organics were washed with brine, dried (Na2SO4), filtered,
concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography (10:1
hexanes/ethyl acetate) to give the desired trans-ax,j-unsaturated ester 62 (48.0 g, 92%) as a white
solid.
Preparation of Compound 64;
                                                 88

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
A suspension of compound 62 (48.0 g, 196 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (10 g) in EtOAc/THF (600
mL/75 mL) was subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at room temperature.
The reaction mixture was filtered through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was
concentrated in vacuum to afford 64 (46.5 g, 96%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3)
6 7.67 (d, J= 9.4 Hz, 2H), 7.57-7.54 (m, 1H), 7.29(dd, J= 8.6, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.12 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.5
Hz, 1H), 7.11-7.09 (m, 1H), 3.90 (s, 3H), 3.66 (s, 3H), 3.07 (t, J = 7.7 Hz, 2H), 2.70 (t, J = 7.7
Hz, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 66;
To a solution of methyl ester 64 (46.5 g, 191 mmol) in THF/MeOWH 20 (500 mL/500 mL/150
mL) was added NaOH (45.6 g, 114 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 2 h. Solvent was removed and pH value was adjusted to 1 with 1 N aq HCl;
white solid precipitated out. Solid was filtered, washed with water and dried under vaccum to
afford acid 66 (42.5 g, 97%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 12.14 (brs, 1H),
7.73 (dd, J = 9.5, 2.3 Hz, 2H), 7.64-7.61 (m, 1H), 7.35 (dd, J = 8.5, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 7.26 (d, J = 2.8
Hz, 1H), 7.12 9 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.5 Hz, 1H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 2.94 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (t, J = 7.6
Hz, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 67;
To a solution of compound 60 (39.3 g, 222 mmol) in dry THF (500 mL) was added n-butyl
lithium (110 mL, 2M solution in cyclohexane) drop wise at -78'C and the reaction mixture was
stirred for lh to give a solution of compound 61. To another solution of compound 66 (42.5 g,
185 mmol) in dry THF(1000 mL) was added NMM (26.3 mL, 240 mmol) and PivCl (27.3 mL,
222 mmol) drop wise at -78 'C. The reaction mixture was stirred for for 1 min at the same
temperature, and then the prepared solution of compound 66 was added slowly at -78 'C. The
reaction mixture was stirred for another 10 min then brought to 0 'C and stiired for 1 h followed
by at room temperature for 30 min, quenched with satd NH 4 Cl, concentrated to remove THF, and
partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (1000 mL) and water (1000 mL). The aqueous layer was separated
and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 1000 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
CH 2 Cl 2 ) to afford compound 67 (45.0 g, 63%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6
7.68 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.64-7.61 (m, 1H), 7.31 (dd, J = 8.5, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.33-7.24 (m, 4H),
                                                89

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
7.17-7.12 (m, 2H), 7.11-7.09 (m, 1H), 4.69 -4.61 (m, 1H), 4.15 (d, J=2.4 Hz, 1H), 4.13 (s, 1H),
3.90 (s, 3H), 3.46-3.21 (m, 3H), 3.20-3.08 (m, 2H), 2.74 (dd, J= 13.6, 9.4 Hz, 1H).
Preparation of Compound 68;
To a solution of compound 67 (45.0 g, 116 mmol) in dry THF (700 mL) was added KHMDS
(34.6 g, 174 mmol) portion wise at -78'C. After the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min,
trisyl azide (53.6 g, 174 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min. Then
acetic acid (69.6 mL, 1158 mmol) followed by tetramethyl ammonium acetate (30.9 g, 232
mmol) was added slowly at the same temperature. The reaction mixture was allowed to be
warmed to 24'C, stirred for 16 h, quenched with satd NaHCO 3 (300 mL), concentrated to remove
THF and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 500 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 10:90
EtOAc/Hexane followed by DCM) to afford compound 68 (31.0 g, 62%) as yellow solidl: 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 7.70 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 2H), 7.68-7.65 (m, 1H), 7.40 (dd, J= 8.6, 1.8 Hz,
 1H), 7.36-7.23 (m, 3H), 7.20 (d, J = 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.19-7.17 (m, 1H), 7.13 (dd, J    =  9.0, 2.6 Hz,
 1H), 7.10 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 5.36 (dd, J= 9.0, 6.0 Hz, 1H), 4.58-4.50 (m, 1H), 4.11 (dd, J= 9.1,
2.6 Hz, 1H), 3.90 (s, 3H), 3.91 (t, J = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 3.34 (dd, J = 13.8, 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.30 (dd, J=
13.0, 3.5 Hz, 1H), 3.19 (dd, J= 13.4, 8.6 Hz, 1H), 2.81 (dd, J= 13.4, 9.5 Hz, 1H).
Preparation of Compound 69;
To a solution of compound 68 (31.0 g, 72.1 mmol) in THF/H 20 (300 mL/100 mL) was added
H2 0  2 (49 mL, 433 mmol) followed by LiOH (6.04 g, 144 mmol) portion wise at 00 C. The
reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min at the same temperature followed by at rt for 1 hr then
quenched with satd Na 2 SO 3 (200 mL), concentrated under reduced pressure to remove THF and
washed with CH 2Cl 2 (500 mL). The aqueous layer was acidified with IN aq HCl and extracted
with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 500 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , concentrated
and washed with MTBE to afford compound 69(15.0 g, 82%) as an off-white solid: 1H NMR
(400 MHz, MeOD-d3 ) 8 7.70 (t, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.66-7.63 (m, 1H), 7.35 (dd, J = 8.6, 1.7 Hz,
 1H), 7.19 (d, J= 2.8 Hz, 1H), 7.10 (dd, J= 9.1, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 4.25 (dd, J= 8.6, 5.3 Hz, 1H), 3.88
(s, 3H), 3.29 (dd, J= 13.9, 5.1 Hz, 1H), 3.10 (dd, J= 14.3, 8.6 Hz, 1H).
Preparation of Compound 70;
                                                 90

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
A suspension of compound 69 (15.0 g, 55.1 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (3.50 g) in AcOH/H 20 (300
mL/100 mL) was subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 3 h at room temperature.
The reaction mixture was filtered through Celite and washed with AcOH/H 20 followed by
MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford acetic salt 70 (14.0 g, 83%) as a yellow
solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-dsTFA) 8 8.38-8.18 (m, 3H), 7.78 (dd, J= 11.4, 8.1 Hz, 2H),
7.75-7.70 (m, 1H), 7.41 (dd, J= 8.6, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.29 (d, J= 2.3 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (dd, J= 8.8, 2.4
Hz, 1H), 4.33-4.23 (m, 1H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 3.33 (dq, J= 14.5, 5.9 Hz, 2H), 1.92 (s, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 71;
To a solution of compound 70 (14.0 g, 45.9 mmol) in acetic acid (140 mL) was added hydro
bromic acid (140 mL) drop wise at room temperature and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 3
h. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated. The crude brown
residue 71 (12.4 g, 87%) was directly used for the next step without any purification: 1H NMR
(400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 8 13.83 (brs, 1H), 9.71 (brs, 1H), 8.41 (brs, 1H), 8.25 (brs, 2H), 7.67 (dd,
J= 13.8, 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.64-7.61 (m, 1H), 7.29 (dd, J= 8.6, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.13-7.05 (m, 2H), 4.29
4.19 (m, 1H), 3.20 (t, J= 5.5 Hz, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 72;
Acetyl chloride (38.4 mL, 540 mmol) was added to dry methanol (400 mL) at 00 C and then
compound 71 (24.0 g, 77.2 mmol) was added. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 4 h and
concentrated. The residue was partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (500 mL) and saturated NaHCO 3 (300
mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 300 mL). The combined
organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to afford compound 72 (16.6 g, 88%)
as white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.62 (brs, 1H), 7.67 (d, J = 9.4 Hz, 1H), 7.58
(d, J = 8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.53 (s, 1H), 7.22 (dd, J = 8.2, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.09-7.06 (m, 1H), 7.04 (dd, J =
8.8, 2.6 Hz, 1H), 3.67 (t, J= 6.5 Hz, 1H), 3.57 (s, 3H), 2.97 (dd, J= 13.5, 6.1 Hz, 1H), 2.86 (dd,
J= 13.2, 7.4 Hz, 1H), 1.90 (brs, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 73;
To a solution of compound 72 (16.6 g, 67.8 mmol) in MeOWH 20 (360 mL/120 mL) was added
NaHCO 3 (22.8 g, 271 mmol) and Boc 2 0 (17.7 g, 81.3 mmol) at 0 'C. The resulting mixture was
allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was partitioned
between CH 2 Cl 2 (200 mL) and water (200 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted
                                                 91

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 400 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. FCC using 20% ethyl acetate-hexanes followed by CH 2 Cl 2 gave the
compound 73 (17.0 g, 73%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 7.60 (d, J = 9.5 Hz,
 1H), 7.51 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.49-7.43 (m, 1H), 7.15 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.09-6.99 (m, 2H),
6.31 (brs, 1H), 5.15-4.84 (m, 1H), 4.73-4.46 (m, 1H), 3.71 (s, 3H), 3.23 (dd, J = 13.7, 5.3 Hz,
 1H), 3.14 (dd, J= 13.7, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 1.39 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 74;
To a solution of compound 73(7.0 g, 20.3 mmol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (300 mL) was added pyridine (16.5
mL, 203 mmol) was added triflate (5.11 mL, 30.4 mmol) at 0 'C and stirred at same temperature
for 1 h followed by at room temperature for 2 h. After concentrated, the reaction mixture was
partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (300 mL) and water (200 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and
extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 300 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine,
dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to afford compound 74 (8.80 g, 91%) as a brown oil
(pyridine present as confirmed by NMR). The reaction was monitored by using LC-MS, and
product formation was confirmed by LM-MS data: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 7.85 (d, J = 9.2
Hz, 1H), 7.80 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.71 (d, J = 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.66-7.63 (m, 1H), 7.37 (ddd, J =
10.0, 7.3, 2.0 Hz, 2H), 5.12-5.03 (m, 1H), 4.73-4.61 (m, 1H), 3.72 (s, 3H), 3.32 (dd, J= 13.3, 5.3
Hz, 1H), 3.20 (dd, J= 13.3, 6.2 Hz, 1H), 1.38 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 75;
Compound 74 (16.5 g, 34.6 mmol) and benzyl but-3-ynylcarbamate (17, 10.4 g, 51.9 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (450 mL) was degassed with Argon for 10 min at rt, then added TEA (19.3
mL, 138 mmol), 10% (t-Bu) 3 P in hexanes (13.9 mL, 6.91 mmol), and Cul (0.33 g, 1.72 mmol) at
room temperature. The resulting mixture was degassed with Argon for 10 min and Pd(PPh3) 4
(3.99 g, 3.45 mmol) was added rapidly in one portion. After degassed with Argon for 5 min, the
resulting mixture was refluxed for 18 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuum and
the residue was purified by column (silica gel, 75:25 hexanes/EA) to afford compound 75 (14.1
g, 77%) as a brown solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 )     8 7.86 (brs, 1H), 7.68 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 2H),
7.53 (brs, 1H), 7.41 (dd, J = 8.5, 1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.38-7.28 (m, 5H), 7.27-7.22 (m, 1H), 5.26-5.17
(m, 1H), 5.13 (s, 2H), 5.06-4.99 (m, 1H), 4.70-4.59 (m, 1H), 3.69 (s, 3H), 3.46 (q, J = 6.7 Hz,
2H), 3.27 (dd, J = 14.1, 5.9 Hz, 1H), 3.16 (dd, J = 13.2, 6.2 Hz, 1H), 2.67 (t, J = 6.6 Hz, 2H),
 1.38 (s, 9H).
                                                 92

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 76;
To a solution of methyl ester 75 (12.1 g, 22.8 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (150 mL/150 mL/50
mL) was added NaOH (4.56 g, 114 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 2 h. The pH value was adjusted to 9 with 1 N aq HCl and organic solvent was
removed. The pH value of residue was adjusted to 5-6, and the suspension was partitioned
between CH 2Cl 2 (500 mL) and water (200 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted
with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 400 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated to afford compound 76 (10.50 g, 89%) as a brown solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CD 30D) 8 7.83 (s, 1H), 7.73-7.61 (m, 3H), 7.44-7.19 (m, 7H), 5.10 (s, 2H), 4.42-4.34 (m, 1H),
3.41-3.32 (m, 3H), 3.06 (dd, J= 14.3, 9.3 Hz, 1H), 2.64 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.31 (s, 7H), 1.21 (s,
2H).
Preparation of Compound 77; SG-SJL-B-27
A suspension of 75 (2.0 g, 3.77 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (500 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (90 mL)
and AcOH ( 10 mL) was degassed and then subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford amine salt 77 (1.60
mg, 93%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.73 (d, J = 8.5, 1H), 7.72 (d, J = 8.7
Hz, 1H), 7.62 ((brs, 2H), 7.73 (ddd, J= 10.0, 8.7, 2.7 Hz, 2H), 4.44 (dd, J= 8.8, 5.6 Hz, 1H),
3.68 (s, 3H), 3.25 (dd, J= 14.0, 6.6 Hz, 1H), 3.04 (dd, J= 13.5, 9.2 Hz, 1H), 2.93 (t, J= 7.4 Hz,
2H), 2.83 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.96 (s, 6H), 1.85-1.75 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.68 (m, 2H), 1.33 (s, 7H),
 1.26 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 78; SG-SJL-B-30
To a solution of amine salt 77 (1.60 g, 3.47 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 2.16 g, 5.56 mmol) in EtOH (40 mL) was added DIPEA (6.20
mL, 34.70 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a sealed
tube for 1 h, then cooled to room temperature, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue was
purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to afford
guanidine 78 (1.24 g, 59%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 7.71 (dd, J= 8.4,
2.8 Hz, 2H), 7.60 (brs, 2H), 7.34 (dd, J= 8.5, 1.9 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (dd, J= 8.7, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 4.45
(dd, J = 8.9, 5.7 Hz, 1H), 3.68 (s, 3H), 3.28-3.26 (m, 1H), 3.25 (t, J = 2.4 Hz, 1H), 3.22 (d, J=
                                                  93

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
5.9 Hz, 1H), 3.04 (dd, J= 14.0, 9.2 Hz, 1H), 2.82 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.86 -1.77 (m, 2H), 1.73
1.63 (m, 2H), 1.32 (s, 7H), 1.23 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 79; SG-SJL-B-32
A solution of methyl ester 78 (1.24 g, 2.00 mmol) in a mixture of THF (25 mL), methanol (25
mL) and water (10 mL) was added solid NaOH (324 mg, 8.00 mmol) and the reaction mixture
was stirred at room temperature for 1 h. TLC of the reaction mixture showed completion of
reaction then pH of the reaction mixture was brought to pH 9-10 by addition of 1 N HCl (aquous)
and organic solvent was removed. The pH of aq. part was adjusted to pH 5-6 and precipitated
came out and extracted with dichloromethane. Aquous part was extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2X 50
mL). Organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. Yellow
colored solid compound (79, 1.10 g, 92%) was dried under vacuum: 1H NMR ((400 MHz,
CD 3OD) 7.70 (t, J= 9.4, 2H), 7.61 (d, J= 5.3 Hz, 2H), 7.33 (dd, J= 8.4, 1.4 Hz, 2H), 4.38 (dd, J
= 8.4, 5.1 Hz,1H), 3.05 (dd, J= 14.1, 9.1 Hz, 1H), 2.84 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 3.35-3.34 (m, 3H),
1.88-1.79 (m, 2H), 1.76-1.67 (m, 2H), 1.32 (s, 7H), 1.21 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 80 - Hydrochloride salt of (S)-2-amino-3-(6-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino
6-chloropyrazine-2-carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)naphthalen-2-yl)propanoic             acid
4 N HCl in dioxane (25 mL) was added to 79 (1.10 g, 1.83 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) and reaction
mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, purified by reverse
phase column (gold column) and residue was lyophilized to afford compound 80 (700 mg, 67%)
as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6)10.48 (s, 1H), 9.24 (brs, 1H), 8.99-8.86 (m,
 1H), 8.84-8.70 (m, 1H), 8.38 (brs, 3H), 7.80 (t, J = 9.2 Hz, 2H), 7.73 (s, 1H), 7.69 (s, 1H), 7.45
7.35 (m, 4H), 4.25 (dd, J = 11.4, 5.9 Hz, 1H), 3.34 (q, J = 6.6 Hz, 2H), 3.27 (d, J = 6.9 Hz, 2H),
2.79 (t, J = 7.70 Hz, 2H), 1.79-1.67 (m, 2H), 1.65-1.54 (m, 2H).
IH NMR ((400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.82 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.78 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (s, 1H),
7.68 (s, 1H), 7.40 (ddd, J= 10.5, 8.6, 1.6 Hz, 2H), 4.33 (dd, J= 7.7, 5.2 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J=
 14.9, 6.0 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 3.33-3.29 (m, 1H), 2.87 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.80
(m, 2H), 1.79-1.71(m, 2H).
11. Preparation of (S)-3,5-diamino-6-chloro-N-(N-(4-(6-(2,3-diamino-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)pyrazine-2-carboxamide               (84)
                                                  94

     WO 2014/099676                                                                      PCT/US2013/075108
                                                 Scheme 12
                                  0
                             HO       S
                               BocHIN        I",
                                                     76                 NHCbz
                                                        i-BCF, NMM
                                                        7 N NH 3 in MeOH
                                   0
                             H2N
                                BocHN         N         X
                                                      81                 NHCbz
                                                        Pd/C, H 2 (1 atm)
                                                        EtOH/AcOH
                                0
                          H2N
                                                                       NH2-AcOH
                                                     82
                                       0    NH-HI
                           Cl      Nf          SCH 3    DIPEA, EtOH
                         H2N      N    NH 2
                         0             13
                     H2N                                                      N    Cl
                       BocHI         N.Nt                                     N    CI
                                                               H       HI
                                                     83                H2N    N    NH 2
                                                         4NaqHCl
                                                        Et0H
                     H2N                       N                    NH         -2HCl
                             NH 2     N        XN                         ,KNlN      CI
                                                                H      HI
                                                       84               H2N    N    NH 2
Preparation of Compound 81;
A solution of acid 76 (2.0 g, 3.87 mmol) in THF (80 mL) was cooled to 0 'C in ice-bath, NMM
(0.63 mL, 5.03 mmol) was added followed by dropwise i-BCF (0.63 mL, 5.80 mmol) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 2 h. NH 3 (7.0 N in methanol, 5.52 mL,
38.7 mmol) was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for
a further 2 h. Reaction mixture was then brought to rt and stirred for 16 h. Organic solvent was
removed. To this residue was added water and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (3 x 100 mL). The
                                                      95

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The residue was
purified by column chromatography (3% methanol in chloroform) to afford amide 81 (1.75 g,
88%) as a light yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.83 (s, 1H), 7.69 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H),
7.66 (s, 1H), 7.39 (dt, J= 8.8, 1.9 Hz, 2H), 7.35-7.21 (m, 5H), 5.09 (s, 2H), 4.40 (dd, J= 9.6, 5.8
Hz, 1H), 3.37 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 3.27 (dd, J= 13.8, 5.2 Hz, 1H), 2.97 (dd, J= 13.7, 9.4 Hz, 1H),
2.63 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 1.27 (s, 7H), 1.21 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 82;
A suspension of 81 (1.75 mg, 3.39 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (600 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (110
mL) and AcOH (15 mL) was degassed and then subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm)
for 12 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the
plug was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford amine salt 82 as
a white solid (1.40 g, 93%): 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.72 (dd, J = 8.3, 5.6 Hz, 2H), 7.66 (s,
 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.38 (dd, J= 8.6, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.34 (dd, J= 8.5, 1.5 Hz, 1H), 4.38 (dd, J= 9.0,
5.0 Hz, 1H), 3.27 (dd, J= 13.8, 5.0 Hz, 1H), 2.93 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H), 2.83 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H),
3.01-2.95 (m, 1H), 1.96 (s, 3H), 1.86-1.75 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.29 (s, 7H), 1.23 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 83;
To a solution of amine salt 82 (1.40 g, 3.15 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 1.96 g, 5.04 mmol) in EtOH (40 mL) was added DIPEA (5.64
mL, 31.5 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a sealed tube
for 2 h, then cooled to room temperature, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue was purified
by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford guanidine 83
(1.15 g, 61%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 8 7.70 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 2H), 7.64
(s, 1H), 7.60 (s, 1H), 7.34 (dt, J= 8.9, 1.9 Hz, 2H), 4.38 (dd, J= 9.0, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 3.28-3.20 (m,
3H), 2.96 (dd, J= 9.6, 14.1 Hz, 1H), 2.81 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.85-1.76 (m, 2H), 1.70-1.61 (m,
2H), 1.27 (s, 7H), 1.20 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound the HCI Salt of (S)-3,5-diamino-6-chloro-N-(N-(4-(6-(2,3
diamino-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)pyrazine-2-carboxamide                (84)
4 N HCl in dioxane (25 mL) was added to 83(1.15 g, 1.92 mmol) in EtOH (6.0 mL) and reaction
mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, purified by reverse
phase column (gold column) and residue was lyophilized lyophilized to afford compound 84
                                                  96

    WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
(310 mg, 28%) as a yellow solid: H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 10.56 (s, 1H), 9.38 (t, J= 5.5
Hz, 1H), 9.06-8.83 (m, 2H), 8.31 (brs, 3H), 8.02 (s, 1H), 7.79 (t, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.73 (s, 1H),
7.69 (s, 1H), 7.51 (s, 1H), 7.46 -7.36 (m, 4H), 4.06 (dd, J= 11.5, 6.0 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (q, J= 6.4
Hz, 2H), 3.27 (dd, J= 6.6, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 3.18 (dd, J= 13.7, 6.9 Hz, 1H), 2.79 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H),
1.79-1.69 (m, 2H), 1.64-1.54 (m, 2H).
IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D) 7.82 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.79 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 1H), 7.74 (s, 1H),
7.68 (s, 1H), 7.41 (td, J= 8.1, 1.6 Hz, 2H), 4.18 (dd, J= 8.1, 6.3 Hz, 1H), 3.42-3.34 (m, 3H),
3.21 (dd, J= 14.1, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 2.86 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.71 (m, 2H).
12. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-2
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (89)
                                                 Scheme 13
                                                  97

    WO 2014/099676                                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
                                                0
                                            HO
                                              BocH1&
                                                                  76                     NHCbz
                                             DEPBT/DIPEA/THF
                                                                       CH13 N
                             C6Hi3N                                            s ugarN8       NH
                                                            BoN85                               NH 2
                                      II
                                                           BociIN        N           .
                    OH   OH
         sugar=                                                    86                                NHCbz
                0      0     OH                                       Pd/C, H2
                     h                                                EtOHI/AcOH
                               C6H1 3 N.-                      0
                                        NL
                                                 C6H
                                                                       3
                                                             BocHN        'N-.
                                                                                       uNH
                                                                                                         2
                                                     0     NHeHI  87
                                            C1    NJANR. SCH,
                                           H2N    N  NH 2           DIPEA, EtOH
                C6HisN
                                   11
                           suga r         NNH
                                                                                                     0
                                                  BocHN                                     N    N)        N Cl
                                                                  88                        H     H
                                                                                                  H2N      N NH 2
                                                                     4NaqHCl
                            SH
                  R
                      (R).        N-                      0
             OH OH OH CH               3       Z'N    N      SNH                                          0
                                                      H      -       I
                                                             ON 6                                            N    C
                                                                  89
                                                                                                       H 2N  N    NH2
Preparation of compound 86;
To the compound 85 (1.10 g, 2.32 mmol) in THF (50 mL) were added DEPBT (766 mg, 2.56
mmol), 76 (1.00 g, 1.97 mmol) and DIPEA (1.0 mL, 5.91 mmol) successively and stirred at rt for
16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2
(100 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous water (2 X100 mL) and brine (50 mL), and
dried over Na 2SO 4. The solvent was evaporated and the crude product purified by flash
chromatography on silica gel (5% Methanol/ CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 86 as a yellow solid
                                                          98

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
product (1.19 g, 57%): 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 7.82 (d, J= 5.8 Hz, 2H), 7.73-7.61 (m,
4H), 7.51-7.43 (m, 2H), 7.39-7.19 (m, 10H), 7.05 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 2H), 5.52 (s, 1H), 5.10 (s, 2H),
4.51 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.31-4.25 (m, 1H), 4.24 (dd, J= 11.0, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.01-3.91 (m, 2H),
3.88 (dd, J= 5.5, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.76 (dd, J= 9.3, 2.1 Hz, 1H), 3.61 (t, J= 10.6 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (t, J
= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 3.12-3.00 (m, 1H), 2.74 (dd, J= 13.2, 5.3 Hz, 1H), 2.64 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 2.57
2.37 (m, 7H), 1.74-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.31 (s, 9H), 1.29-1.16 (m, 8H), 0.86 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 87;
A suspension of 86 (1.19 g, mixture) and 10% Pd/C (220 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (110 mL)
and AcOH (15 mL) was degassed and then subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 3 h
at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was
washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford amine salt 87 which was
then neutralized with NaHCO 3 and crude product was purified by flash chromatography on silica
gel (CMA, 80:18:2) yielding free amine 87 as a yellow solid (550 mg, 58%, over two steps): 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.71 (t, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.62 (d, J= 1.8 Hz, 1H), 7.49-7.45 (m, 3H),
7.40 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.36-7.28 (m, 5H), 7.09 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 5.55 (s, 1H), 4.51 (dd, J=
 15.6, 8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.25 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.17-4.03 (m, 2H), 3.98-3.90 (m, 2H), 3.81
3.74 (m, 1H), 3.63 (t, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 3.27-3.20 (m, 1H), 3.09-2.98 (m, 5H), 2.93 (t, J= 7.6 Hz,
2H), 2.83 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 2.61-2.54 (m, 2H), 1.95-1.86 (m, 2H), 1.85-1.75 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.65
(m, 2H), 1.57-1.47 (m, 2H), 1.39-1.19 (m, 7H), 1.33 (s, 9 H), 0.88 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of 88;
To a solution of amine 87 (550 mg, 0.65 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 400 mg, 1.04 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was added DIPEA (1.15
mL, 6.44 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a sealed tube
for 2 h, then cooled to room temperature, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue was purified
by silica gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) followed by reverse
phase column (Gold C18) to afford guanidine 88 (333 mg, 48%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400
MHz, CD 30D) 7.69 (dd, J= 8.6, 3.5 Hz, 2H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 7.60 (s, 1H), 7.48-7.44 (m, 2H), 7.35
(ddd, J= 10.4, 8.6, 1.6 Hz, 2H), 7.33-7.28 (m, 5H), 7.04 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 2H), 5.52 (s, 1H), 4.52
4.55 (m, 1H), 4.24 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.00-3.91 (m, 2H), 3.88 (dd, J= 5.4, 2.0 Hz, 1H),
3.75 (dd, J= 9.6, 2.2 Hz, 1H), 3.60 (t, J= 10.6 Hz, 2H), 3.28-3.23 (m, 3H), 3.06 (dd, J= 13.5,
8.3 Hz, 1H), 2.82 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.77 (dd, J= 13.9, 5.6 Hz, 1H), 2.59-2.40 (m, 7H), 1.86
 1.76 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.68 (m, 4H),1.42-1.60 (m, 7H), 1.33 (s, 9H), 0.86 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 3H).
                                                 99

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of the HCI Salt of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
Compound (89) ;
4 N HCl in water (20 mL) was added to 88 (333 mg, 0.31 mmol) in ethanol (10 mL) and reaction
mixture was stirred at rt for 2h. Purified by reverse phase column (gold column) and residue was
lyophilized to afford compound 89 (210 mg, 68%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ) 10.94 (brs, 1H), 9.29 (brs, 1H), 9.02-8.77 (m, 2H), 8.64-8.17 (m, 2H), 7.80-7.73 (m,
3H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.52 (d, J= 8.8 Hz,2H), 7.47 (dd, J= 8.2, 1.0 Hz, 1H), 7.44-7.36 (m, 3H), 7.19
(d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 5.52-5.41 (m, 1H), 4.86-4.71 (m, 1H), 4.60 (d, J= 5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.59-4.53 (m,
1H), 4.42 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, 1H), 4.38 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 1H), 4.03-3.95 (m, 1H), 3.71-3.66 (m, 1H),
3.62-3.55 (m, 1H), 3.53-3.34 (m, 5H), 3.27 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 3.23 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 3.16
2.99 (m, 5H), 2.78 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.58 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H), 2.01-1.90 (m, 2H), 1.78-1.68 (m,
2H), 1.66- 1.54 (m, 4H), 1.32-1.21 (m, 6H), 0.85 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 3H).
IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.79 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.77-7.73 (m, 2H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 7.47
7.37 (m, 4H), 7.21 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 4.30 (dd, J= 7.7, 6.7 Hz, 1H), 4.12-4.05 (m, 1H), 3.82
3.74 (m, 1H), 3.71-3.61 (m, 2H), 3.49 (dd, J= 14.0, 6.6 Hz, 1H), 3.47(t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 3.33
3.27 (m, 3H), 3.26-3.13 (m, 4H), 2.86 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.73-2.64 (m, 2H), 2.10-2.00 (m, 2H),
1.89-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.72 (m, 2H), 1.71-1.63 (m, 2H), 1.40-1.30 (m, 6H), 0.91 (t, J= 6.6 Hz,
3H).
13. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-2
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (94)
                                                 Scheme 14
                                                  100

     WO 2014/099676                                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
                                             0
                                        HO
                                           BocHNNT
                                                                19                  NHCbz
                                           DEPBT/DIPEA/THF          ragus N
                           gus.                                            sugar 90       NH
                                 sugar                     O
            OH   OH
 sugar -                                                BocNT
                     OH                                        91                               NHCbz
            Ph
                                                                   Pd/C, H 2
                                                                   EtOH/AcOH
                           ragus.N.0
                                   sugar
                                                          BocUN
                                                                r         u           uNH            2
                                                                92
                                                    0   NH-HI
                                        Cl     N~JN1SH
                                                 Cl N      SCH3     DIPEA, EtOH
                                       H2 N    N    NH2
             ragus                                  13  N
                      sugar                                                               NH    0
                 HO                             BocHN                 -                                N.C1
                                                                                                       N'<
             HO,, (R)                                                                  H     H
                     (R)    OH                                                               H2N       N    NH 2
          HO,,  (R)
                 (S)   'OH                                        4 N aq HCl
                                                                  EtOH
                   N                             0
                         .,,OH               N-~   s                                    N
                     (S)NN                                                               NH
                         ~R)                                                          HH          IJ
                     HO                                                                     H2N     N      NH 2
Preparation of compound 91;
To the compound 90 (484 mg, 0.91 mmol) in THF (30 mL) were added DEPBT (300 mg, 1.00
mmol), 19 (400 g, 0.77 mmol) and DIPEA (0.40 mL, 2.31 mmol) successively and stirred at rt
for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue was dissolved in
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous water (2 X100 mL) and brine (50 mL),
and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product purified by flash
                                                             101

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
chromatography on silica gel (5% Methanol/ CH 2 Cl 2 ), yielding amide 91 as a yellow solid
product (600 mg, 76%, impure). Product formation was confirmed by LCMS.
Preparation of Compound 92;
A suspension of 91 (600 mg, 0.59 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (200 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (90 mL)
and AcOH (10 mL) was degassed and then subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford amine salt 92which
was then neutralized with NaHCO 3 and crude product was purified by flash chromatography on
silica gel (CMA, 80:18:2) yielding free amine 36 as a yellow solid (350 mg, 66%, impure): 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.71 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.61 (s, 2H), 7.43-7.37 (m, 2H),
7.34 (dd, J= 8.3, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.16 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 4.69 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 2H), 4.50 (t, J= 7.1
Hz, 1H), 4.13-4.06 (m, 2H), 4.05 (dd, J= 11.0, 5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.83 (dd, J= 4.8, 2.1 Hz, 2H), 3.81
3.73 (m, 2H), 3.51 (dd, J= 9.5, 2.3 Hz, 2H), 3.38 (t, J= 10.8 Hz, 2H), 3.13-3.03 (m, 6H), 2.93 (t,
J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.82 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.74-2.57 (m, 2H), 2.04-1.95 (m, 2H), 1.84-1.75 (m,
3H), 1.74-1.63 (m, 3H), 1.33 (s, 9H), 1.25 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of 93;
To a solution of amine92 (350 mg, 0.38 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 242 mg, 0.62 mmol) in EtOH (10 mL) was added DIPEA
(0.67 mL, 3.80 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a
sealed tube for 2 h, then cooled to room temperature, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) followed by
reverse phase column (Gold C18) to afford guanidine 93 (170 mg, 20% over three steps) as a
yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.71 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.62 (s, 1H),
7.43 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.26 (ddd, J= 10.6, 8.6, 1.3 Hz, 2H), 7.18 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 4.70 (q, J
= 0.5 Hz, 2H), 4.49 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.22-4.09 (m, 2H), 4.06 (dd, J= 10.4, 5.1 Hz, 2H), 3.89
3.81 (m, 2H), 3.80-3.71 (m, 2H), 3.60-3.49 (m, 2H), 3.43-3.32 (m, 8H), 3.31-3.23 (m, 2H), 3.10
2.98 (m, 2H), 2.85 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 2.77-2.61 (m, 2H), 2.12-2.02 (m, 2H), 1.89-1.79 (m, 2H),
 1.78-1.68 (m, 2H), 1.31 (s, 9H), 1.25 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide             (94)
                                                 102

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
4 N HCl in water (20 mL) was added to 93 (170 mg, 0.15 mmol) in ethanol (5.0 mL) and
reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C for 2h. The solvent was removed again 4N HCl was added
and heated at 40 C for another 2 h. This addition repeated two more times. Solvent was removed
and purified by reverse phase column (gold column) and residue was lyophilized to afford
compound 94 (80 mg, 50%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 10.74 (brs, 1H),
9.28-9.19 (m, 1H), 9.03-8.60 (m, 2H), 8.58-8.04 (m, 1H), 7.81-7.73 (m, 3H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.50
(d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.48-7.34 (m, 4H), 7.19 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, 2H), 5.39-5.35 (m, 1H), 4.87-4.63
(m, 1H), 4.62-4.47 (m, 3H), 4.45-4.35 (m, 2H), 4.32-4.23 (m, 1H), 4.01-3.85 (m, 1H), 3.67 (d, J
= 4.6 Hz, 1H), 3.62-3.55 (m, 2H), 3.53-3.38 (m, 5H), 3.37-3.29 (m, 2H), 3.24-3.09 (m, 2H), 2.78
(t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.62-2.53 (m, 2H), 2.01-1.86 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.68 (m, 2H), 1.64-1.55 (m, 2H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.78 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.75 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.73 (s, 1H),
7.66 (s, 1H), 7.42 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.21 (d, J= 8.7 Hz, 2H), 4.16 (t, J
= 7.0 Hz, 1H), 4.13-4.05 (m, 2H), 3.81 (dd, J= 4.7, 1.9 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (dd, J = 10.6, 3.0 Hz, 2H),
3.72-3.61 (m, 6H), 3.44-3.30 (m, 10 H), 2.86 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.76-2.61 (m, 2H), 2.11-2.01
(m, 2H), 1.89-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.72 (m, 2H).
14. Prepartion of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3-(4-(3-((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexylamino)propyl)phenylamino)propyl)naphthalen-2
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (99)
                                                 Scheme 15
                                                103

     WO 2014/099676                                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
                                     0
                                 HO
                                   BocH T
                OH     OH
                     sg                               19                 NHCbz
    sugar~    -     (   )_    "I19
            0       0     OH               PivC1 NM       BocN
                 Ph                                    I                   I
                                                                sgar 171      NH2
                           II
                           sugar
                                               BocHN          N       /
                                                      96
                                                                                      NHCbz
                                Boc,               0      Pd/C, H2
                       Boc                                EtOH/AcOH
                             N                     O~
                             sugar
                                                                                           NHz
                                                 BocH1
                                                                                        NH 2
                                                       97            0   NH-HI
                                         DIPEA, EtOH       Cl    N         SCH3
        BocN                                             H1 N    N   NH2
                1                                                   13
                sugar                               -          .NH                    0
                                       BocH                                       N O        N    C
                                                                             H    H       Ij
                                                      98                           H 2N      N   NH 2
      H    OH                                            4NaqHCl
                                                         EtOH
   OH                HO
                                                 NH 2                             N     N0O      NXCl
                                                                                  H      H
                                                      99                                 H 2N    N    NH 2
Preparation of compound 96;
A solution of acid 19 (1.17 g, 2.27 mmol) in THF (60 mL) was cooled to 0 'C in ice-bath, NMM
(0.30 mL, 2.95 mmol) was added followed by PivCl (0.30 mL, 2.49 mmol) and the reaction
mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 2 h. 34 (1.0 g, 2.27 mmol, 10 mL THF) of aniline
171 was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for a further 10 mih.
Reaction mixture was then brought to rt and stirred for 16 h. Organic solvent was removed. To
this residue was added water and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (3 x 100 mL). The organic layers were
combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The residue was purified by column
                                                            104

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
chromatography (4% methanol in chloroform) to afford amide 96 (1.40 g, 66%, impure) as a
light yellow solid. Product formation was confirmed by LCMS.
Preparation of Compound 97;
A suspension of 96 (1.40 g, 1.50 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (300 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (120 mL)
and AcOH (12 mL) was degassed and then subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford amine salt 97 which
was then neutralized with NaHCO 3 and crude product was purified by flash chromatography on
silica gel (CMA, 80:18:2) yielding free amine 97 as a yellow solid (550 mg, 30%, over two
steps): 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.74-7.65 (m, 3H), 7.59 (s, 1H), 7.41-7.29 (m, 4H), 7.11 (d,
J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 4.69 (q, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 4.50 (t, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 4.04 (dd, J = 10.4, 5.2 Hz,
 1H), 4.02-3.94 (m, 1H), 3.79-3.71 (m, 1H), 3.70-3.63 (m, 1H), 3.54-3.39 (m, 3H), 3.26-(dd, J=
 13.6, 6.8 Hz, 1H), 3.07 (dd, J= 13.1, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 2.79 (t, J = 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.75-2.67 (m, 2H),
2.55 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.69 (m, 2H), 1.62-1.52 (m, 2H), 1.50-1.37 (m,
 12H), 1.33 (s, 9H), 1.25 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of 98;
To a solution of amine 97 (550 mg, 0.68 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 423 mg, 0.62 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was added DIPEA
(1.21 mL, 6.80 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a
sealed tube for 2 h, then cooled to room temperature, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue
was purified by silica gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 4 0H) followed by
reverse phase column (Gold C18) to afford guanidine 98 (500 mg, 72%) as a yellow solid: 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.73-7.64 (m, 3H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.40-7.30 (m, 4H), 7.11 (d, J= 8.5
Hz, 2H), 4.68 (d, J = 4.9 Hz, 1H), 4.49 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 4.04 (dd, J = 10.9, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 4.02
3.93 (m, 1H), 3.78-3.70 (m, 1H), 3.69-3.64 (m, 1H), 3.54-3.38 (m, 4H), 3.30-3.20 (m, 2H), 3.15
3.01 (m, 1H), 2.83 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.54 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.78 (m, 4H), 1.73-1.64 (m,
2H), 1.53-1.37 (m, 12H), 1.32 (s, 9H), 1.25 (d, J= 4.9 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3-(4-(3
((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexylamino)propyl)phenylamino)
propyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide               (99)
                                                 105

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
4 N HCl in water (20 mL) was added to 98 (500 mg, 0.15 mmol) in ethanol (5.0 mL) and
reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C for 2h. The solvent was removed again 4N HCl was added
and heated at 40 C for another 2 h. This addition repeated two more times. Solvent was removed
purified by reverse phase column (gold column) and residue was lyophilized to afford compound
99 (206 mg, 50%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 11.0 (brs, 1H), 9.34 (brs,
 1H), 9.09-8.25 (m, 6H), 7.82-7.73 (m, 2H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.53 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.49 (d, J= 9.2
Hz, 1H), 7.41 (s, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.17 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 5.39 (d, J= 3.7 Hz, 1H),
4.80-4.70 (m, 1H), 4.62 (d, J = 4.3 Hz, 1H), 4.60-4.54 (m, 1H), 4.46-4.36 (m, 2H), 3.96-3.88 (m,
1H), 3.71-3.65 (m, 1H), 3.62-3.54 (m, 1H), 3.51-3.35 (m, 5H), 3.09 (d, J= 13.3 Hz, 1H), 2.94 (d,
J= 10.9 Hz, 1H), 2.87 (t, J= 9.1 Hz, 2H), 2.78 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 2H), 2.00
1.86 (m, 2H), 1.85-1.67 (m, 2H), 1.65-1.53 (m, 2H).
1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.80 (d, J = 9.5 Hz, 1H), 7.78-7.73 (m, 2H), 7.68 (s, 1H), 7.45
7.37 (m, 4H), 7.19 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 4.31 (t, J= 6.3 Hz, 1H), 4.09-4.00 (m, 1H), 3.87-3.81 (m,
 1H), 3.78 (d, J= 11.4 Hz, 1H), 3.73-3.61 (m, 3H), 3.46 (dd, J= 13.6, 6.3 Hz, 1H), 3.37 (t, J= 6.8
Hz, 2H), 3.30-3.25 (m, 1H), 3.22-3.12 (m, 2H), 3.03 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H), 2.86 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H),
2.69 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.07-1.95 (m, 2H), 1.91-1.81 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.69 (m, 2H).
15. Preparation of (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-(2-amino-3-(4-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)
6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (103)
                                      Scheme 16
                                                106

      WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
                        0
                   HO
                      BocHNT
                                            19              NHCbz
                             PivC1, NMM      Me. N
                      MMe
          Me                          O                        NH
                                   BocHN
                                           100                        NHCbz
                                               Pd/C, H2
          Me,, N                        0      EtOH/AcOH
              Me                                                        N
                                     BocH1l
                                            101                         NH 2
                             O    NH-HI
                  Cl    N
                                N    SCH 3
                                C     NDIPEA, EtOH
                 H2 N   N    NH 2
 Me,,                             N                                             C13
      Me
                                    H                            NH 0
                          BocHN         N.       .NN                         N  CI
                                           102                 H   H
                                                                   H2 N         NH 2
                                              TFA/CH 2 CL 2
      Me                       N                                   N NO
                               H                                     NHI
                                     NH 2                                   I  NyC1
                                                                               N~
                                                                  H     H
                                           103                           H2N   NINH    2
Preparation of compound 100;
A solution of acid 19 (1.75 g, 3.39 mmol) in THF (70 mL) was cooled to 0 'C in ice-bath, NMM
(0.74 mL, 6.78 mmol) was added followed by PivCl (0.41 mL, 3,39 mmol) and the reaction
mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 2 h. 18 (825 mg, 4.61 mmol, 10 mL THF) was
added and the reaction mixture was stirred at the same temperature for a further 10 mih. Reaction
mixture was then brought to rt and stirred for 16 h. Organic solvent was removed. To this
residue was added water and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (3 x 100 mL). The organic layers were
                                                        107

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (4% methanol in chloroform) to afford amide 100 (1.60 g, 71%) as a light
yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 7.87 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (d, J = 8.5
Hz, 1H), 7.65-7.62 (m, 2H), 7.42 (dd, J= 8.4, 1.9 Hz, 1H), 7.40-7.29 (m, 5H), 7.22 (d, J= 8.6
Hz, 2H), 7.08 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 5.21-5.10 (m, 2H), 5.13 (s, 2H), 4.51 (q, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 3.47
(q, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H), 3.29 (d, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 2.68 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 2.57 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H),
2.26 (ddt, J= 11.5, 9.3, 2.5 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (s, 6H), 2.22-2.19 (m, 1H), 1.78-1.69 (m, 3H), 1.39 (s,
9H).
Preparation of Compound 101;
A suspension of 100 (1.60 g, 2.30 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (400 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (130
mL) and AcOH (20 mL) was degassed and then subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm)
for 16 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the
plug was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford amine salt 101
as a yellow solid (1.60 g, 99%): 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.71 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.68 (s,
 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.42 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (dd, J= 8.5, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (dd, J= 8.5, 1.3
Hz, 1H), 7.16 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 4.50 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 3.28 (dd, J= 14.0, 6.3 Hz, 1H), 3.07
(dd, J = 13.3, 8.7 Hz, 1H), 3.05-2.98 (m, 2H), 2.93 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.82 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, 2H),
2.78 (s, 6H), 2.65 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.06-1.96 (m, 2H), 1.93 (s, 6H), 1.86-1.75 (m, 2H), 1.74
 1.64 (m, 2H), 1.33 (s, 9H).
Preparation of 102;
To a solution of amine 101 (1.60 g, 2.30 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (21, 1.60 g, 4.14 mmol) in EtOH (25 mL) was added DIPEA 4.1
mL, 23.0 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in a sealed tube
for 2 h, then cooled to room temperature, and concentrated in vacuum. The residue was purified
by silica gel column chromatography (80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford guanidine 102
(645 mg, 37% and 640 mg, 37% impure) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.70
(dd, J= 9.0, 4.3 Hz, 2H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 7.61 (s, 1H), 7.39 -7.31 (m, 4H), 7.11 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H),
4.48 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 3.30-3.22 (m, 3H), 3.06 (dd, J= 13.8, 8.9 Hz, 1H), 2.83 (t, J= 7.2 Hz,
2H), 2.57 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 2H), 2.32 (dd, J= 10.5, 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.23 (s, 6H), 1.86-1.74 (m, 4H),
 1.73-1.64 (m, 2H), 1.32 (s, 9H).
                                                  108

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of the Hcl Salt of(S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(6-(2-amino-3-(4-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-2-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)
6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (103)
TFA (10 mL) was added to 47 (545 mg, 0.71 mmol) in CH 2Cl2 (15 mL) and reaction mixture was
stirred at rt for 1h. The solvent was removed again IN HCl was added and solvent was removed,
purified by reverse phase column (gold column) and residue was lyophilized to afford compound
48 (206 mg, 50%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 11.02 (brs, 1H), 10.81
10.58 (m, 1H), 10.53 (s, 1H), 9.32 (s, 1H), 9.04-8.72 (m, 2H), 8.50 (brs, 3H), 7.82-7.73 (m, 3H),
7.68 (s, 1H), 7.53 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 7.48 (d, J= 9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.45-7.35 (m, 3H), 7.18 (d, J=
8.4 Hz, 2H), 4.45-4.35 (m, 1H), 3.74-3.45 (m, 1H), 3.27 (dd, J = 14.7, 8.3 Hz, 1H), 3.03-2.93 (m,
2H), 2.78 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 2.70 (s, 6H), 2.58 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 2.02-1.88 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.66
(m, 2H), 1.64-1.54 (m, 2H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 7.80 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.78-7.73 (m, 2H), 7.67 (s, 1H), 7.47
7.38 (m, 4H), 7.20 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 4.33 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 3.46 (dd, J= 13.6, 6.6 Hz, 1H),
3.37 (t, J = 6.8 Hz, 2H), 3.36-3.26 (m, 3H), 2.87-2.83 (m, 2H), 2.87 (s, 6H), 2.68 (t, J = 7.6 Hz,
2H), 2.07-1.97 (m, 2H), 1.89-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.71 (m, 2H).
16. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)-5,6,7,8
tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (123)
                                            Scheme 17
                                                109

    WO 2014/099676                                                                                  PCT/US2013/075108
                                                                                         CO 2Me           OCH 3
         OH                               OCH 3                     OCH 3                               I
                 dimethyl sulfate               POCl3 , DMF                           P(O)(OCH 3) 2
       Cb        NaOH, acetone          I          1,2-DCE                          DBU, CH 2 Cl 2
      104                               105                         CHO 106                                         107
                                                                                                          0        OCH 3
 OCH 3                                OCH 3                                                                          Pd/C, H2, EtOH
                                                                                OCH 3                          OCH 3
                                                                 Bn
                   1. KHMDS, THF                            0I                                  NaOH
                       P                                     08
        N3 Bn2. TrisylN 3, AcOH                  n    1. BuLi, THF                        MeOH/THF/H 2 0
 0      N          3. (CH 3)4N'AcO-   0    N          2. Pivdl, NMM, THF
                                               O                                0     OH                       0        OCH 3
            O                               0
      111                                 110                                     109                                108
       SLiOH, H 2 0 2 , THF/H 2 0
    OCH 3                            OCH 3                               OH                                 OH
                      Pd/C, H 2                    HBr, AcOH                                AcCl
         (N 3       AcOH/H 2 O            NH 2                                 \NH 2 -HBr MeOH                    ,NH 2 -HCl
              ()(S}                                                       (S}                                (S)
    O      OH                        0     OH                            0       OH                         0        OCH 3
       112                              113                                   114                                115
                                                                                             Boc 2 0, NaHCO 3
                                                                                                        MeOH
                                                                               OTf                          OH
                     O                                      NHCbz
H3CO                                                      10                                     Tf 2
    BocHN               /                   Pd(PPh 3 )4 , Cul, (t-Bu) 3P            ,NHBoc pyridine                 ,NHBoc
                                                 Et 3N, CH 3 CN                 (S)                           (S)
                                       NHCbz
                          118                                                  0     OCH 3                   0        OCH 3
             NaOH|
  THF/H 2 0/MeOH                                                                  117                              116
           O    SC              H 3 ,              N H,     HC63
 HO                                     242                       sugar                 N O
   BocHN                        DEPBT, DIPEA, THF                                          ocHT
                          119         NHCbz                                                   120                             NHCbz
                                                          110

     WO 2014/099676                                                                       PCT/US2013/075108
                                          Scheme 17 (continued)
                                   1N                     O
                                   sugar              N
                                                      gocH T
                                                             1 i20                    NHCbz
                                                              I Pd/C, H2, EtOH/AcOH
                        C6H13 N
                                                        0
                                 sugar              N       s
            OH   OH                                   ocHN              /H
                                   -   (5                                            NH2 *AcOH
  sugar      -                                               121
          0    0   OH                         0     NH-HI
            Ph                         Cl   N          SCH3      DIPEA, EtOH
                                     H2 N N   NH 2
                                             13
                 C6H13   N                      0
                          sugar              N
                                            N      -NHO0
                       HO                   gocH&T                              N   N        N   Cl
                                                             122                H   H
                    HOt''     ) oH                                                  H2N      NINH2
                 HO,, (R)                                        4 N aq HCl, EtOH
                       (S) 'OH
                                            N                                    NH O
                                            H      NH 2                         N   N        NyC
                                                                                H   H      I
                                                            123                 H
                                   CH 3                                             H2N      N   NH 2
Preparation of Compound 105;
A solution of 104 (100 g, 0.675 mmol) in dry THF (800 mL) was charged with NaOH (32.0 mg,
0.809 mmol) and dimethylsulfate (102 g, 0.809 mmol) dropwise at 0 'C. The reaction mixture
was stirred for 2 h at room temperature. THF was removed under reduced pressure, and the
mixture was partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (1.0 L) and water (1.0 L). The aqueous layer was
separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 1.0 L). The combined organic extracts were dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
100% CH 2 Cl 2 ) to afford compound 105 (108.0 g, 90%) as a yellow liquid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
                                                       111

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.06 (t, J= 7.85 Hz, 1H), 6.71 (d, J= 7.25, 1H), 6.64 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 3.80 (s,
3H), 2.74 (t, J= 2.75 Hz, 2H), 2.65 (t, J= 2.65 Hz, 2H), 1.81-1.71 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 106;
A solution of dry DMF (71.45 ml, 0.923 mmol) was charged with POCl 3 (57.40 ml, 0.616 mmol)
dropwise under nitrogen atmosphere at 0 'C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at 0
'C. A solution of 105 (50.0 g, 0.308 mmol) in dry 1,2-dichloromethane (500 mL) was added to
the reaction mixture dropwise under nitrogen atmosphere at 0 'C. After the addition was
complete, the reaction mixture was heated at 80 'C for 6 h. The reaction mixture was quenched
with cold H 2 0 and partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (1.0 L) and water (1.0 L). The aqueous layer was
separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 1.0 L). The combined organic extracts were dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 5%
EA/Hexane) to afford compound 106 (35.0 g, 61%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.10 (s, 1H), 7.65 (d, J= 7.81, 1H), 6.78 (d, J= 7.47 Hz, 1H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 3.18
(t, J= 5.80 Hz, 2H), 2.70 (t, J= 4.64 Hz, 2H), 1.82-1.73 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 107;
A solution of trimethylphosphonoacetate (55.OmL, 0.378 mmol) in 100 mL anhydrous
CH 2 Cl 2 cooled to 0C was charged with DBU (58.0 g, 0.380 mmol) and the mixture was stirred
for 15 min. Aldehyde 106 (16.0 g, 0.084 mmol) in 50 mL CH 2Cl 2 was added dropwise. The
reaction mixture was brought to room temperature, stirred for 16 h, and quenched with 100 mL
of water. The mixture was partitioned, and the aqueous layer was extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (3 x
 150 mL). The combined organics were washed with brine, dried (Na 2 SO4), filtered, and
concentrated, and the residue was purified by silica-gel column chromatography (10:1
hexanes/ethyl acetate) to give the cis & trans-x, -unsaturated ester 107 (15.0 g, 72%) as a white
solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.83 (d, J= 14.7 Hz, 1H), 7.58 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 6.82
(d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.35 (d, J= 15.2 Hz, 1H), 3.80 (s, 3H), 3.70 (s, 3H), 2.76 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H),
2.55 (t, J = 5.4 Hz, 2H), 1.80-1.60 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 108
A suspension of 107 (33.0 g, 0.134 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (15 g, 0.127) in EtOH (300 mL) was
subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 3 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture
was filtered through Celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum
                                                112

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
to afford 108 (28.0 g, 90%) as a white solid: 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 7.65 (d, J = 7.62,
 1H), 6.78 (d, J= 7.96 Hz, 1H), 4.06-4.11 (m, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 2.86 (t, J= 7.79 Hz, 2H), 2.69
2.64 (m, 4H), 2.57-2.51 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.74 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 109;
A solution of methyl ester 108 (28.0 g, 0.106 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 2 0 (200 mL/200 mL/60
mL) was charged with NaOH (25.0 g, 0.625 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 3 h. The solvent was removed and the pH was adjusted to 1 with 1 N aqueous
HCl; a white solid precipitated and was filtered, washed with water, and dried under vacuum to
afford acid 109 (25.5 g, 92%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 6.96 (d, J = 7.29,
 1H), 6.63 (d, J = 6.86 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (s, 3H), 2.88 (t, J = 7.29 Hz, 2H), 2.69-2.66 (m, 4H), 2.63
2.59 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.73 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 110
A solution of 60 (13.70 g, 77.31 mmol) in dry THF (200 mL) was charged with n-butyllithium
(45.07 mL, 90.08 mmol, 2M solution in cyclohexane) dropwise at -78 C, and the reaction
mixture was stirred for 1 h to give a solution of lithium salt 61. Another solution of 109 (15.0 g,
64.37 mmol) in dry THF (200 mL) was charged with NMM (9.30 mL, 83.64 mmol) and PivCl
(10.30 mL, 83.64 mmol) dropwise at -78 'C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min and
warmed to -20 'C for 1 h, and the prepared solution of lithium salt was added slowly at -78 'C.
The reaction mixture was stirred for another 10 min, brought to 0 'C and stirred for 1 h, brought
to room temperature and stirred for 30 min, quenched with saturated NH 4 Cl, concentrated to
remove THF, and partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (300 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer
was separated and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (150 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
CH 2 Cl 2 ) to afford compound 110 (15.0 g, 60%) as a white solid.
Preparation of Compound 111;
A solution of 110 (15.0 g, 38.14 mmol) in dry THF (250 mL) was charged with KHMDS (13.70
g, 68.67 mmol) portionwise at -78'C. After the resulting mixture was stirred for 30 min, trisyl
azide (19.0 g, 61.40 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min. Acetic
acid (15.0 mL, 228 mmol) and tetramethylammonium acetate (30.9 g, 76.28 mmol) were added
slowly at the same temperature. The reaction mixture was warmed to 24'C, stirred for 16 h,
quenched with saturated NaHCO 3 (100 mL), concentrated to remove THF, and extracted with
                                                  113

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
CH 2 Cl 2 (300 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated.
The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 90:10 hexanes/EtOAc followed
by DCM) to afford compound 111 (8.80 g, 54%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ):
6 7.36-7.30 (m, 3H), 7.23 (m, 1H), 7.20 (m, 1H), 7.16 (m, 1H), 7.01 (d, J= 7.79 Hz, 1H), 6.60
(d, J= 7.59 Hz, 2H), 5.35 (t, J= 7.99, 2H), 4.89 (s, 1H), 4.58-4.51 (m, 1H), 4.13-4. 10 (m, 3H),
3.93 (t, J= 7.54, 1H), 3.77 (s, 3H), 3.33-3.27 (m, 3H), 2.71 (m, 2H), 2.63 (m, 2 H), 1.78-1.75
(m, 5H), 1.58 (m, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 112;
A solution of 111 (31.0 g, 72.1 mmol) in THF/H 20 (300 mL/100 mL) was charged with H 2 0      2
(49 mL, 433 mmol) followed by LiOH (6.04 g, 144 mmol) portionwise at 0 'C. The reaction
mixture was stirred for 10 min at 0 'C and at room temperature for 1 h, quenched with saturated
Na 2 SO 3 (200 mL), concentrated under reduced pressure to remove THF, and washed with CH 2Cl 2
(500 mL). The aqueous layer was acidified with 1 N aqueous HCl and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2
x 500 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 , concentrated, and washed
with MTBE to afford compound 112 (15.0 g, 82%) as an off-white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CD 30D): 6 6.92 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 6.63 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 3.75 (s, 3H), 2.81 (t, J= 7.8 Hz,
2H), 2.67 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.61 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 2.49-2.47 (m, 2H), 1.84-1.70 (m, 6H).
Preparation of Compound 113;
A suspension of 112 (15.0 g, 55.1 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (3.50 g) in AcOH/H 20 (300 mL/100
mL) was subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 3 h at room temperature. The
reaction mixture was filtered through Celite and washed with AcOH/H 20 followed by MeOH.
The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford acetic salt 113 (14.0 g, 83%) as a yellow
solid.
Preparation of Compound 114;
A solution of 113 (11.0 g, 44.1 mmol) in acetic acid (120 mL) was charged with hydrobromic
acid (120 mL) dropwise at room temperature and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 3 h. The
reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated. The crude brown residue
114 (8.90g, 80%) was directly used for the next step without any purification: 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 6.80 (d, J = 7.85, 1H), 6.57 (d, J = 7.21 Hz, 1H), 3.92-3.91 (m, 1H), 3.04-2.98
(m, 1H), 2.91-2.86 (m, 1H), 2.61 (m, 2H), 2.54-2.53 (m, 2H), 1.69-1.68 (m, 5H).
                                                 114

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 115;
Acetyl chloride (17.0 mL, 243 mmol) was added to dry methanol (300 mL) at 0 'C and 114
(8.90g, 28.2 mmol) was added. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 4 h and concentrated. The
residue was partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (200 mL) and saturated NaHCO 3 (100 mL). The
aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (200 mL). The combined organic
extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to afford compound 115 (7.30 g, 90%) as a
white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 6.81 (d, J= 7.51, 1H), 6.59 (d, J= 7.21 Hz, 1H),
4.12-4.11 (m, 1H), 3.75 (s, 1H), 3.31-3.30 (m, 2H), 2.70-2.67 (m, 2H), 2.63 (t, J= 6.16 Hz,
2H).
Preparation of Compound 116;
A solution of 115 (7.30 g, 25.60 mmol) in MeOH/H 20 (100 mL/60 mL) was charged with
NaHCO 3 (12.0 g, 145 mmol) and Boc 2 0 (10.0 g, 45.8 mmol) at 0 'C. The resulting mixture was
warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was partitioned between
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 ,
and concentrated. Flash-column chromatography using 20% ethyl acetate/hexanes followed by
CH 2 Cl 2 gave compound 116 (7.1 g, 81%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 6.77
(d, J = 7.36, 1H), 6.55 (d, J = 7.86 Hz, 1H), 4.96-4.94 (m, 1H), 4.71 (s, 1H), 4.96-4.94 (m, 1H),
4.71 (s, 1H), 4.50-4.48 (m, 1H), 3.69 (s, 3H), 3.07-3.01 (m, 1H), 2.89-2.84 (m, 1H), 2.86 (m,
2H), 2.63 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.78 (m, 4H), 1.39 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 117;
A solution of 116 (7.0 g, 20.05 mmol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (80 mL) was charged with pyridine (100 ml)
and triflate (4.64 mL, 24.0 mmol) at 0 'C, stirred for 1 h, and stirred at room temperature for 2 h.
After concentration, the reaction mixture was partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (150 mL) and water
(70 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL). The combined
organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , and concentrated to afford
compound 117 (8.00 g, 83%) as a brown oil: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D): 6 8.81 (d, J = 4.63
Hz, 5H), 8.56-8.51 (m, 2H), 8.02-7.99 (m, 4H), 7.11 (d, J= 7.98 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (d, J= 7.98, 1H),
4.39-4.35 (m, 1H), 3.68 (s, 3H), 3.19-3.14 (dd, 1H), 2.90-2.77 (m, 5H), 1.86-1.81 (m, 4H), 1.35
(s, 9H), 1.32-1.28 (m, 4H).
                                                 115

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 118;
Compound 117 (8.0 g, 16.6 mmol) and benzyl but-3-ynylcarbamate (10, 5.00 g, 24.9 mmol) in
anhydrous CH 3CN (100 mL) were degassed with argon for 10 min at room temperature and
charged with TEA (9.34 mL, 66.50 mmol), 10% (t-Bu) 3 P in hexanes (7.0 mL, 3.32 mmol), and
Cul (0.16 g, 0.84 mmol). The resulting mixture was degassed with argon for 10 min and Pd
(PPh3) 4 (2.00 g, 1.73 mmol) was added rapidly in one portion. After degassing with argon for 5
min, the resulting mixture was refluxed for 16 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under
vacuum and the residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 75:25 hexanes/ethyl
acetate) to afford compound 118 (4.50 g, 52%) as a brown solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6
7.36-7.34 (m, 4H), 7.33-7.29 (m, 2H), 7.16 (d, J= 7.63 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (d, J= 7.02 Hz, 1H),
5.12-5.08 (m, 2H), 4.95 (d, J= 7.88 Hz, 1H), 4.52-4.51 (m, 1H), 3.67 (s, 3H), 3.48-3.34 (m,
2H), 3.10-3.05 (dd, 1H), 2.84-2.83 (m, 2H), 2.68-2.65 (m, 4H), 1.81-1.76 (m, 4H), 1.39 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 119;
A solution of methyl ester 118 (4.50 g, 8.42 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (30 mL/30 mL/10 mL)
was charged with NaOH (3.60 g, 90 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 3 h. The pH value was adjusted to 9 with 1 N aqueous HCl and the organic
solvent was removed. The pH value of the residue was adjusted to 5-6, and the suspension was
partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and
extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated to afford compound 119 (3.66 g, 85%) as a brown solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CD 30D): 6 7.28-7.24 (m, 5H), 7.05-7.03 (d, J= 7.67 Hz, 1H), 6.89-6.87 (d, J= 7.55 Hz, 1H),
5.04 (brs, J= 7.02 Hz, 1H), 5.12-5.08 (m, 2H), 4.95 (d, J= 7.88 Hz, 1H), 4.52-4.51 (m, 1H),
3.67 (s, 3H), 3.48-3.34 (m, 2H), 4.27-4.26 (m, 1H), 3.38-3.30 (m, 2H), 3.15-3.10 (m, 1H),
2.78-2.71 (m, 4H), 2.59 (d, J= 5.95, 2H), 1.73-1.71 (m, 4H), 1.31 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 120;
Compound 119 (800 mg, 1.53 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was charged with DEPBT (845 mg, 2.56
mmol), 24 (700 mg, 2.33 mmol), and DIPEA (1.0 mL, 4.65 mmol) successively and stirred at
room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (50 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous water (50 mL) and
brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (6% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 120 (1.0
g) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 7.46-7.44 (m, 3H), 7.36-7.30 (m, 7H), 7.17
                                                 116

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
(d, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 7.07 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 6.99-6.92 (m, 1H), 5.49 (s, 1H), 5.10 (s, 2H), 4.35
4.31 (m, 1H), 4.05-3.90 (m, 2H), 3.80-3.82 (m, 1H), 3.75-3.72 (m, 1H), 3.62 (t, J= 9.9 Hz, 1H),
3.43 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 3.18-3.16 (m, 1H), 3.01-3.08 (m, 1H), 2.83-2.82 (m, 2H), 2.68-2.48
(m, 8H), 1.86-1.78 (m, 3H), 1.71-1.62 (m, 1OH), 1.44 (s, 9H), 0.87 (t, J= 6.3 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 121;
A suspension of 120 (1.00 g, 1.01 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (600 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (50 mL)
and AcOH (2 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 12 h at
room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug was
washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 121 as a
white solid (700 mg, 80%): 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 7.49-7.41 (m, 2H), 7.34-7.30 (m,
5H), 7.12-6.78 (m, 5H), 4.30-4.27 (m, 2H), 4.19-4.18 (m, 1H), 3.98-391 (m, 2H), 3.78-3.58 (m,
2H), 3.19-3.08 (m, 3H), 3.02-2.89 (m, 6H), 2.75-2.73 (m, 2H), 2.65-2.62 (m, 3H), 2.55-2.52
(m, 3H), 1.98-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.73-1.68 (m, 3H), 1.60-1.52 (m, 7H), 1.41 (s, 9H), 1.29-1.20 (m,
7H), 0.88-0.84 (m, 3H), 0.87 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 122;
A solution of amine salt 121 (700 mg, 0.81 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 680 mg, 1.75 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (1.60 mL, 9.26 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 122 (380 g, 48%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.43-7.39 (m,
3H), 7.33-7.31 (m, 3H), 7.05 (d, J= 6.69 Hz, 2H), 6.99-6.95 (m, 2H), 6.86 (d, J= 7.59 Hz, 1H),
5.47 (s, 1H), 4.33-4.31 (m, 1H), 4.14-4.10 (m, 1H), 3.79-3.72 (m, 4H), 3.68-3.65 (m, 2H),
2.69-2.66 (m, 6H), 2.56-2.53 (m, 3H), 2.45-2.36 (m, 7H), 1.70 (m, 4H), 1.56 (m, 6H), 1.32 (s,
9H), 0.86 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(hexyl((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2
carboxamide (Compound 123);
                                                117

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
4 N HCl in dioxane (15 mL) was added to 122 (350 g, 0.35 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), and the residue was lyophilized to
give 110 mg (45%) of compound 123 as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6
 10.16 (s, 1H), 9.16 (brs, 1H), 8.51-8.34 (brs, 2H), 7.41 (t, J= 8.1 Hz, 4H), 7.20 (d, J= 8.6 Hz,
2H), 6.95-6.89 (q, 2H), 5.42 (brs, 1H), 4.42 (m, 1H), 4.53 (d, J= 5.3 Hz, 2H), 4.42 (m, 1H), 4.01
(m, 1H), 3.93 (m, 1H), 3.60 (m, 1H), 3.50-3.38 (m, 4H), 3.08-3.03 (m, 6H), 2.72 (brs, 2H),
2.66-2.65 (m, 2H), 2.57 (m, 2H), 1.91-1.90 (m, 2H), 1.72-1.69 (m, 4H), 1.61-1.54 (m, 6H), 1.26
(s, 6H), 0.86 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 3H).
 H NMR (400 MHz, D2 0): 6 7.08 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.04-6.98 (q, 2H), 6.92 (d, J = 8.3 Hz,
2H), 4.06-4.02 (m, 2H), 3.78-3.69 (m, 3H), 3.62-3.54 (m, 2H), 3.25 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 1H), 3.19
3.14 (m, 3H), 3.10-3.04 (m, 4H), 2.66-2.54 (m, 7H), 1.90-1.86 (m, 2H), 1.65-1.58 (m, 5H),
 1.50-1.40 (m, 4H), 1.19-1.18 (m, 6H), 0.78 (t, J= 6.62).
17. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)-5,6,7,8
tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (127)
                                             Scheme 18
                                                 118

    WO 2014/099676                                                                                      PCT/US2013/075108
                           sugar                           sugarO
             0                                                     NN~
 HO      HO    s                  sugar            .I
                                           29             NH 2      sugar               N
  BocHN          -             DEPBT, DIPEA, THF                                          ocHN
                                  NHCbz                                                      124                    NHCbz
                        119
                                                                                             Pd/C, H2
                                                                                             EtOH/AcOH
                   OH OH      ~     sugar, I
     sugar =             sugar                                         N O
              Oh11OH
                                                                          ocHN
                                                                                                       NH 2 -AcOH
                                                                   0   NH HI 125
                                                      Cl     N:
                                                         l               H        DIPEA, EtOH
                                                     H2 N    N    NH2
                                                                13
                            sugarNO
                                     sugar                      N                                   NH O
                                                                N~                                  NHOJ       N  C
                                   HO                               cHN                          N    N
                                                                               126               H    H
                                HO,, ((R)     OH                                                       H 2N    N  NH 2
                            HO,,  (R) ",                                         4 N aq HCl, EtOH
                                    (S)"'OH f
                                   (s)
                                     N                              0
                                           ..IOH                                 NzSNH
                                       (S)                      N                                   NH    O
                                            (R)                 H
                                   HO      (R)                  H        H2                      H     H
                                       HO       R)    OH                       127               H       2     N  N2
Preparation of Compound 124;
The compound 119 (1.0 g, 1.92 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was charged with DEPBT (845 mg, 2.82
mmol), 29 (1.25 g, 1.91 mmol), and DIPEA (1.0 mL, 5.73 mmol) successively and stirred at
room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 (50 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous water (50 mL) and
brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (5% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 124 [900
mg (mixture)] as a yellow solid.
Preparation of Compound 125;
A suspension of 124 [900 mg (mixture), 0.77 mmol] and 10% Pd/C (600 mg) in a mixture of
EtOH (50 mL) and AcOH (1.5 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1
atm) for 12 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite
                                                                  119

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
and the plug was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford
crude 125(800 mg) as a colorless oil.
Preparation of Compound 126;
A solution of crude 125 (800 mg) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 400 mg, 1.02 mmol) in EtOH (40 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (1.10 mL, 6.38 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 126 (285 mg, 12% over 3 steps) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6
7.44-7.42 (m, 4H), 7.30-7.28 (m, 6H), 7.22 (d, J= 7.27 Hz, 2H), 6.96 (d, J= 7.11 Hz, 2H), 6.91
(d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 6.86 (d, J= 7.61 Hz, 2H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 4.33 (m, 1H), 4.23-4.19 (m, 2H),
3.97-3.91 (m, 4H), 3.84-3.82 (m, 2H), 3.71 (d, J= 2.29 Hz, 1H), 3.69 (d, J= 2.2 Hz, 1H), 3.58
(t, J= 10.08 Hz, 2H), 3.06-3.00 (m, 1H), 2.91-2.86 (m, 1H), 2.76 (m, 2H), 2.71-2.68 (m, 4H),
2.61-2.55 (m, 4H), 2.44-2.35 (m, 4H), 1.74-1.60 (m, 1OH), 1.38 (s, 9H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)
5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide
(Compound 127)
4 N HCl in dioxane (10 mL) was added to 126 (1.15 g, 0.23 mmol) in EtOH (3.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column), and the residue was lyophilized to
give 62 mg (32%) of compound 127: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 10.39 (brs, 1H), 10.03
(brs, 1H), 8.91-8.82 (brs, 2H), 8.48 (brs, 2H), 7.42 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 4H), 7.18 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H),
6.96 (d, J= 7.1, 1H), 6.89 (d, J= 7.4, 1H), 5.44 (d, J= 10.8, 2H), 4.81 (br, 2H), 4.59 (d, J= 4.2,
2H), 4.55 (d, J= 5.4 Hz, 2H), 4.42 (t, J= 4.4, 2H), 4.11 (br, 1H), 4.00 (brs, 2H), 3.69-3.65 (m,
2H), 3.58 (m, 2H), 3.47 (m, 4H), 3.43-3.39 (m, 4H), 3.25-3.22 (m, 4H), 3.04 (d, J= 6.3, 2H),
2.73 (m, 2H), 2.64 (m, 2H), 2.58-2.56 (m, 2H), 1.98 (m, 2H), 1.97 (m, 2H), 1.70-1.67 (m, 4H),
 1.61-1.59 (m, 2H), 1.54-1.52 (m, 2H), 1.70-1.67 (m, 4H), 1.61-1.59 (m, 2H), 1.54-1.52 (m,
2H).
IH NMR (400 MHz, D2 0): 6 7.10 (d, J= 8.30 Hz, 2H), 7.02-6.90 (m, 2H), 6.91 (d, J= 7.42 Hz,
2H), 4.07-3.92 (m, 5H), 3.77-3.70 (m, 8H), 3.62-3.55 (m, 5H), 4.07-3.95 (m, 5H), 3.74-3.56
                                                 120

    WO 2014/099676                                                                                       PCT/US2013/075108
(m, 8H), 3.60-3.55 (m, 5H), 3.30 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 5H), 3.20-3.16 (m, 7H), 2.60-2.51 (m, 1OH),
1.97-1.95 (m, 3H), 1.61-1.59 (m, 7H), 1.49-1.45 (m, 2H).
18. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3-(4-(3-((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6
pentahydroxyhexylamino)propyl)phenylamino)propyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
yl)butylcarbamoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (131)
                                                           Scheme 19
    H                       sugar,,                          sugarN                           O
  HO                                                    NNL         B0              N
                           I                                                               NN
  BocHN           /                DIPEA,DEPBT, THF                                         o
                                     NHCbz                                                   128                     NHCbz
                          119                                                                 Pd/C, H2
                                                                                              EtOH/AcOH
                                   sugar-.            N                O
                                           Boc    Ooc                   S
                    s=                                                    12                       NH 2-AcOH
        sugar=   -    r       /
               0       0  OH                               0     NHHI     129
                    Ph                          Cl        N        SCH 3     DIPEA, EtOH
                                               H2 N   N    NH2
                                                           13
                         sugar,
                                                          N      -                              NH O
                                                                        IocH                N    N            Cl
                                 HO                                                         H     H
                             HO,, (R                                      1H                        2N       NH 2
                             HO      (R    OH                                4 N aq HCl, EtOH
                         HO,,   ()     O
                                 (R)
                                                        S     0~
                                                          N O                                        0
                                                          H      NH 2                           N  N      N   C1
                                                                                            N     N
                                                                         131                 H     H
                                                                                                   H2N    N   NH 2
Preparation of Compound 128;
The compound 119 (1.00 g, 1.92 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was charged with DEPBT (862 mg,
2.88 mmol), 34 (1.50 g, 2.98 mmol), and DIPEA (1.0 mL, 5.76 mmol) successively and stirred at
room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (50 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous water (30 mL) and
brine (20 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
                                                                 121

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (6% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 128 (780
mg, 42%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 7.49 (m, 3H), 7.31-7.29 (m, 10H),
7.00-7.08 (m, 3H), 6.94 (d, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 5.54 (m, 1H), 5.50-5.49 (m, 1H), 5.08 (s, 2H), 4.36
(m, 1H), 4.26-4.22 (m, 2H), 4.05 (m, 2H), 3.95-3.91 (m, 1H), 3.80 (m, 2H), 3.64-3.59 (m, 1H),
3.52-3.48 (m, 1H), 3.14-3.06 (m, 1H), 2.94-2.89 (m, 1H), 2.79 (d, J= 16.12 Hz, 4H), 2.63 (t, J
= 5.98 Hz, 1H), 2.51 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 1H), 1.82-1.75 (m, 7H), 1.41 (s, 18H).
Preparation of Compound 129;
A suspension of 128 (780 mg, 0.776 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (300 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (30
mL) and AcOH (1.0 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 12
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum to afford amine salt 129
(720 mg, 85%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 7.49-7.46 (m, 2H), 7.32-7.30
(m, 5H), 7.08-7.06 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (d, J= 7.4 Hz, 1H), 5.53 (s, 1H), 4.34-4.33 (m, 1H),
4.25-4.21 (m, 1H), 4.03-4.02 (m, 1H), 3.96-3.89 (m, 1H), 3.78-3.76 (m, 1H), 3.71-3.69 (m,
1H), 3.60 (t, J = 9.9 Hz, 1H), 3.48-3.46 (m, 1H), 3.09-3.04 (m, 1H), 2.89 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, 3H),
2.79 (m, 2H), 2.69 (m, 2H), 2.58 (t, J= 6.5 Hz, 2H), 2.51 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 1.84-1.77 (m, 6H),
1.67-1.66 (m, 2H), 1.61-1.57 (m, 2H), 1.41 (s, 18H).
Preparation of Compound 130;
A solution of amine salt 129 (720 mg, 0.77 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 456 mg, 1.17 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (1.12 mL, 6.24 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 130 (380 mg, 45%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 7.48-7.46 (m,
2H), 7.30 (t, J= 2.70 Hz, 5H), 7.08-7.06 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 6.93 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (d, J
= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 5.53 (s, 1H), 4.34 (m, 1H), 4.25-4.21 (m, 1H), 4.04 (m, 1H), 3.96-3.90 (m, 1H),
3.79 (m, 2H), 3.60 (t, J = 10.0 Hz, 1H), 3.50-3.46 (m, 1H), 3.25 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 3H), 3.07-3.02
(m, 1H), 2.92-2.87 (m, 1H), 2.77 (m, 2H), 2.69-2.67 (m, 2H), 2.58 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.48 (t, J
= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 1.82-1.74 (m, 6H), 1.67-1.64 (m, 5H), 1.40 (s, 18H).
                                                122

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of the HCI Salt of 3,5-diamino-N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-oxo-3-(4-(3
((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexylamino)propyl)phenylamino)propyl)-5,6,7,8
tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)butylcarbamoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (131);
4 N HCl in dioxane (25 mL) was added to 130 (350 mg, 0.35 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (Gold column) and the residue was lyophilized to
give compound 131 (125 mg, 48%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 7.35 (d, J
= 7.6, 2H), 7.18 (d, J= 7.3, 2H), 6.99-6.98 (m, 2H), 4.07-4.03 (m, 2H), 3.83 (d, J= 1.30, 1H),
3.82 (d, J= 1.40 Hz, 1H), 3.78-3.75 (m, 1H), 3.68-3.66 (m, 3H), 3.36 (t, J= 6.3, 2H), 3.18-3.15
(m, 4H), 3.04-3.00 (m, 2H), 2.76 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 2H), 2.69-2.61 (m, 5H), 2.00-1.97 (m, 2H),
 1.77-1.73 (m, 5H), 1.69-1.65 (m, 3H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, D2 0):     6 10.46 (s, 1H), 9.31 (br, 1H), 8.55 (br, 4H), 7.45 (d, J= 6.6, 4H),
7.20 (d, J = 7.62 Hz, 2H), 7.00 (d, J = 6.6, 1H), 6.93 (d, J = 6.6 Hz, 1H), 5.43 (d, J= 3.8 Hz, 1H),
4.79 (d, J= 5.38 1H), 4.64-4.63 (m, 2H), 4.46 (t, J= 4.9 Hz, 1H), 4.15 (t, J= 4.6 Hz, 1H), 3.96
3.94 (m, 1H), 3.71 (m, 1H), 3.64-3.61 (m, 1H), 3.51-3.45 (m, 3H), 2.96-2.92 (m, 3H), 2.78-2.77
(m, 2H), 2.68-2.65 (m, 2H), 2.62 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 2H), 1.95-1.94 (m, 2H), 1.76-1.15 (m, 8H).
19. Preparation of (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3-(4-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (135)
                                             Scheme 20
                                                  123

     WO 2014/099676                                                                                   PCT/US2013/075108
                          H3 C..                         HC.. N                         0
HO                                      18xNH        2        CH                    N       s
   BocHN                     DEPBT, DIPEA, THF                                         ol
                                 NHCbz                                                     132                    NHCbz
                      119
                                                                                           Pd/C, H 2
                                                                                           EtOH/AcOH
                                 CH
                                                         N
                                                         IACHN
                                                                                            NH 2 -AcOH
                                                                 133
                                                0      NH.HI
                                     C      N     N       SCH 3     DIPEA, EtOH
                                    H2 N    N   NH 2
                                              13
                   H3QNI
                         CH3                   N         sH
                                                                                            N2
                                                                                            H2
                                                                 134                 H      H
                                                                                            H2N         NH2H
                                                                    4 N aq HC1, EtOH
                                                ~H    NH2                           N~         N         Cl
                         CH3                          s
                                              N        -                              NH 0
                                              H:I
                                                     NH 2          -J
                                                                135                N      H          N~
                                                                                          H2N      N    NH 2
Preparation of Compound 132;
The compound 119 (700 mg, 1.34 mmol) in THF (30 mL) was charged with DEPBT (600 mg,
2.00 mmol), 18 (360 mg, 1.51 mmol), and DIPEA (0.80 mL, 4.03 mmol) successively and stirred
at room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed under reduced pressure, the residue
was dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 (50 mL), quickly washed with saturated aqueous water (50 mL) and
brine (50 mL), and dried over Na 2 SO 4 . The solvent was evaporated and the crude product
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel (6% methanol/CH 2Cl 2), yielding amide 132 [800
mg (mixture)] as a yellow solid product: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 8.13 (d, J= 7.54 Hz,
1H), 8.03 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 7.89-7.85 (m, 1H), 7.71 (t, J= 7.52 Hz, 1H), 7.64-7.59 (m, 2H),
7.44 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 2H), 7.33-7.30 (m, 6H), 7.12-7.06 (m, 3H), 7.0 (d, J= 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.02 (s,
2H), 2.70 (m, 4H), 2.63-2.61 (m, 5H), 2.45 (m, 5H), 1.83 (s, 6H), 1.69-1.65 (m, 3H), 1.33 (s,
9H).
                                                            124

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 133;
A suspension of 132 [800 mg (mixture), 1.01 mmol] and 10% Pd/C (350 mg) in a mixture of
EtOH (30 mL) and AcOH (1 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1
atm) for 12 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite
and the plug was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum and purified
by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford compound
233(500 mg, 67% over 2 steps) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 7.31 (d, J=
7.54 Hz, 2H), 7.12 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 2H), 6.93 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (d, J= 6.8 Hz, 1H), 4.32
(m, 1H), 3.08-3.03 (m, 1H), 2.91-2.86 (m, 1H), 2.77-2.76 (m, 4H), 2.69 (m, 2H), 2.60-2.55 (m,
4H), 2.35-2.31 (m, 2H), 1.82 (s, 6H), 1.58-1.57 (m, 4H), 1.40 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 134;
A solution of amine salt 133 (500 mg, 0.90 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 530 mg, 1.36 mmol) in EtOH (20 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (1.30 mL, 7.25 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C in
a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 4 0H) to afford
guanidine 134 (285 mg, 42%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.29 (d, J =
7.5 Hz, 2H), 7.10 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 6.94-6.87 (m, 2H), 4.33 (m, 1H), 3.27-3.24 (m, 2H), 3.07
3.00 (m, 1H), 2.92-2.87 (m, 1H), 2.76 (m, 2H), 2.70 (m, 2H), 2.61-2.54 (m, 4H), 2.35-2.31 (m,
2H), 2.22 (s, 6H), 1.80-1.72 (m, 5H), 1.69-1.62 (m, 4H), 1.39 (s, 9 H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of (S)-3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-(2-amino-3-(4-(3
(dimethylamino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide Compound 135;
4 N HCl in dioxane (10 mL) was added to 134 (380 g, 0.35 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (C18 Gold column), and the residue was
lyophilized to afford compound 135 (125 mg, 49%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.69 (brs, 1H), 10.54-10.50 (d, J = 16.7 Hz, 2H), 9.32 (t, J = 4.8 Hz, 1H), 8.96
(brs, 1H), 8.86 (brs, 1H), 8.58 (brs, 3H), 7.42 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 4H), 7.18 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 2H), 6.96
(d, J = 7.3 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (d, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 4.15 (t, J = 4.4 Hz, 1H), 3.36-3.32 (m, 2H), 3.09
                                                  125

    WO 2014/099676                                                                       PCT/US2013/075108
3.06 (m, 2H), 3.00-2.95 (m, 2H), 2.74-2.73 (m, 1H), 2.22 (s, 6H), 2.64 (m, 2H), 2.57-2.56 (m,
2H), 1.94-1.90 (m, 2H), 1.70-1.67 (m, 3H), 1.62-1.58 (m, 2H), 1.54-1.52 (m, 2H).
IH NMR (400 MHz, D 2 0): 6 7.08 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 2H), 7.00-6.97 (q, 2H), 6.91 (d, J= 8.1 Hz,
2H), 4.12-4.08 (q, 1H), 3.25 (t, J= 5.2 Hz, 3H), 3.21-3.17 (m, 1H), 3.10 (t, J= 9.8 Hz, 1H), 3.0
2.96 (m, 2H), 2.77 (s, 6H), 2.60-2.58 (m, 5H), 2.50-2.50 (m, 4H), 1.91-1.87 (m, 2H), 1.60-1.58
(m, 6H), 1.45-1.43 (m, 2H).
20. Preparation of (S)-2-amino-3-(4-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)propanoic acid (139)
                                      Scheme 21
       O
H3CO                                   Pd/C, H 2
                B, o fll              ------------      H3 CO
                                     EtOH/AcOH               BocH
                118              NHCbz                                  136                 NH 2-AcOH
                                                                              0    NH-HI
                                            DIPEA, EtOH           Cl    NSCH
                      O                                         H 2N    N     NH 2
                                                                             13
              H3 CO                                   NH    0
                   BocHNT                          N
                                                    NN N N             <CCl
                                                    H     H
                                          137             H2N     N      NH 2
                                            NaOH
                                            MeOH/THF/H 2 0
                    0
               HO                                    NH O
                  BocHT           N                  N          N       Cl
                                                 H      H
                                          138            H2N    N       NH 2
                                              4 N HCl in dioxane
               HO                                    NH O
                        TH2                        NN       N   N       Cl
                                                 H      H            -   N
                                         139             H2N    N       NH 2
Preparation of Compound 136;
                                                     126

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
A suspension of 118 (800 mg, 1.49 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (350 mg) in a mixture of EtOH (50
mL) and AcOH (1.0 mL) was degassed and subjected to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 12
h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through a plug of Celite and the plug
was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated under vacuum and purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30WNH 40H) to afford compound 136 (700 mg,
93%) as a yellow solid.
Preparation of Compound 137;
A solution of amine salt 136 (700 mg, 1.50 mmol) and methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonylcarbamimidothioate (13, 880 mg, 2.26 mmol) in EtOH (30 mL) was charged with
DIPEA (2.15 mL, 12.03 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C
in a sealed tube for 2 h, cooled to room temperature, and concentrated under vacuum. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 3 0H/NH 40H) to
afford guanidine 137 (560 mg, 60%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D); 6 6.95
6.85 (m, 2H), 4.32-4.28 (m, 1H), 3.72-3.67 (m, 2H), 3.34 (m, 3H), 3.22-3.16 (m, 2H), 3.08-3.03
(m, 1H), 2.73 (m, 4H), 2.62 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 1H), 1.81-1.78 (m, 4H), 1.74-1.72 (m, 2H), 1.68-1.60
(m, 2H), 1.36 (s, 9H), 1.34 (s, 5H).
Preparation of Compound 138;
A solution of methyl ester 137 (560 mg, 0.907 mmol) in THF/MeOH/H 20 (30 mL/30 mL/10
mL) was charged with NaOH (3.60 g, 7.25 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 3 h. The pH value was adjusted to 9 with 1 N aqueous HCl and the organic
solvent was removed. The pH value of the residue was adjusted to 5-6, and the suspension was
partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and
extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated to afford compound 138 (420 mg, 78%) as a brown solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ); 6 6.93 (d, J= 6.7 Hz, 1H), 6.84 (d, J= 7.35 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (s, 3H), 3.93 (m, 1H), 3.16
(m, 5H), 2.98-2.94 (m, 1H), 2.74-2.64 (m, 6H), 1.70 (m, 5H), 1.55 (m, 5H), 1.31 (s, 9H), 1.16
1.06 (m, 2H).
Preparation of the HCI Salt of (S)-2-amino-3-(4-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2
carbonyl)guanidino)butyl)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydronaphthalen-1-yl)propanoic acid Compound
139;
                                                127

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
4 N HCl in dioxane (10 mL) was added to 138 (420 mg, 0.69 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed, the mixture
was purified by reverse-phase chromatography (C18 Gold column), and the residue was
lyophilized to afford compound 139 as a yellow solid (200 mg, 49%): 1H NMR (400 MHz,
DMSO-d 6 ); 6 10.56 (brs, 1H), 9.36 (t, J = 4.7 Hz, 1H), 8.9-8.8 (brs, 2H), 6.98-6.93 (m, 2H),
3.95-3.92 (m, 2H), 3.38-3.35 (m, 2H), 3.04 (d, J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.67-2.66 (m, 4H), 2.56-2.55
(m, 2H), 1.72-1.70 (m, 4H), 1.63-1.56 (m, 4H).
1H  NMR (400 MHz, D2 0); 6 7.43 (brs, 2H), 6.94 (d, J= 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.87 (d, J= 7.1 Hz, 1H),
3.41 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.28-3.26 (m, 4H), 3.11 (d, 1H), 3.08 (m, 1H), 2.66-2.64 (m, 6H), 1.67
 1.57 (m, 8H).
21. Chiral Synthesis of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (33)
                                 Scheme 22
                                                 128

   WO 2014/099676                                                                                                          PCT/US2013/075108
                                                                           0
                                                           OH I _J        _OCH 3                       0       OCH,
          OH -bromosuccimide (142)             **.-c                                                     (S)14 NI-IBoc
     C                 CHC-N               CZn,                     12,  DMF
                                                      Br       Pd 2 (dba) 3 , Sphos                                    Tf0     yrdn
      140                                             141                                          7OH                \CH     2CI2
                                                                                        ~ - . N HCbz        H, C   2C
                                   H23C C          
                                                          I                          ~Pd(PPh3 )4. u              BocHNOf
                                            Boci-IN(t-BU)                                  3p,   Et 3N9
                   NaOH                                                                                                     9HC
       MeOH/TH-F/H 2O                                 1                    NHCbz
                                                       N sugar
          HO 2N.C      S       HNsugar                        sugar
                                 2           29        I                     I
        BocI-Th                      1P. NMM. THF                        sarN                                 s
                                     NHCbz                                                            BocH-N
                17                                                                                           30                  --       Hb
                                                                                                                SPd/C, H 2 (1 atm)
                                          OH              OHEtOH.                                                        AcOH
          sugar     -         -)                     sugarN
                   0     0    OHI
                                                             sugar              N.,
                      Ph                                                                   N                    N
                                                                ClN0           NH          BOH         1NH                          2*2AcOH
                                                                        rkN 'kSCH3                   3
                                                         HN      N       NH,          /        DIPEA, EtOH
                                                                        13
                              su
                               N0gar,
                                     S                  N      SNHO0
                             HO                          HE              I                           H                iN,
                                          HO,,                             32                                  -INN N           II
                                                     OHH
                      HO,, ,    "OH                      ~4N                        aq HCI,EtOH
                              N               -~           0
                                      ()N                       -NHO0
                                                               NI 2                                                 y
                                    (R) ,OH                                    -l
                                   H " ) OH                               33                          H        NH   ~        C
                               HO                                                                             I-1N      N      NH2
Preparation of compound 141;
                                                                    129

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
To a solution of 1-naphthol (140, 10.0 g, 69.4 mmol) in acetonitrile (70.0 mL) was added several
portions of NBS (142,12.3 g, 69.4 mmol) over a period of 30 min. The resulting mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 4 h, concentrated under vacuum, followed by addition of water
(200 mL) and ethyl acetate (200 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with ethyl
acetate (2 x 200 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4
and concentrated.    The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 4:1
hexanes/EtOAc) to afford desired compound 141 (9.50 g, 61%) as a white solid: 'H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 8 10.49 (s, 1H), 8.20 (dd, J = 8.3, 0.5 Hz, 1H), 8.02 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66
(dd, J= 8.4, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (ddd, J= 8.2, 7.7, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 6.83 (d, J
= 8.2 Hz, 1H).
Preparation of compound 7;
Zinc dust (7.03 g, 107.6 mmol) was added to a flame-dried, nitrogen-purged side arm round
bottomed flask. Anhydrous DMF (50.0 mL) was added via syringe, followed by a catalytic
amount of iodine (1.00 g, 3.94 mmol). The resulting mixture was observed to undergo a colour
change from colorless to yellow and back to colourless. Protected iodoalanine 143 (11.8 g, 35.9
mmol) was added in one portion, followed by a catalytic amount of iodine (1.00 g, 3.94 mmol)
and stirred at room temperature for 30 min; successful zinc insertion is accompanied by a mild
exotherm. The solution of organozinc reagent was allowed to cool to room temperature before
Pd2dba3 (821 mg, 0.89 mmol), SPhos (736 mg, 1.79 mmol), and aryl bromide 141 (8.00 g, 35.9
mmol) were added and the mixture was heated at 50 C for 16 h, under a positive pressure of
nitrogen. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature. Saturated NH 4 Cl
solution (300 mL) and EtOAc (300 mL) were added, and then the mixture was filtered through
Celite and washed with EtOAc (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with
EtOAc (2 x 300 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4
and concentrated under vacuum. Crude product was purified by column chromatography (silica
gel, 4:1 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford desired compound 7 (4.60 g, 37%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR
(400 MHz, CDCl 3 , mixture of rotamers) 8 8.23 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 1H), 7.54
(t, J= 8.04 Hz, 1H), 7.48 (ddd, J = 8.3, 6.9, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.08 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (d, J = 7.6
Hz, 1H), 6.57 (br s, 0.2 H), 6.45 (br s, 0.2H), 5.91 (br s, 0.65 H), 5.05 (d, J = 7.7 Hz, 0.75H),
4.89 (br s, 0.25H), 4.68 (q, J =6.8 Hz, 0.7H), 4.56 (br s, 0.2H), 3.73 (s, 0.7H), 3.62 (s, 2.3 H),
3.49 (dd, J = 14.0, 5.9 Hz, 0.8H), 3.89 (dd, J = 14.0, 7.2 Hz, 0.7H), 3.05 (br s, 0.2H), 1.39 (s,
7.5H), 1.09 (s, 2.5H).
                                                 130

    WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of compound 9;
To a solution of compound 7 (7.60 g, 21.8 mmol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (150 mL) was added pyridine (18.0
mL) and Tf2O (9.19 g, 32.6 mmol) at 0 'C. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature
for 2 h, concentrated under vacuum and partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (50
mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 50 mL). The combined
organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to afford
compound 9 (11.0 g, crude) as a brown oil. The crude product was directly used for the next step
without further purification: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3, mixture of rotamers) 6 8.19-8.07 (m,
2H), 7.69-7.64 (m, 2H), 7.38 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, J = 7.9 Hz, 1H), 5.12-5.06 (br s, 1H),
4.78-4.67 (m, 1H), 3.68-3.46 (m, 5H), 1.39 (s, 8H), 1.25 (s, 1H).
Preparation of compound 11;
The solution of compound 9 (11.0 g, 21.8 mmol) and benzyl but-3-ynylcarbamate 10 (6.56 g,
32.6 mmol) in anhydrous acetonitrile (100 mL) was            degassed for 10 min under Argon
atmosphere followed by addition of TEA (11.9 mL, 87.0 mmol), 10% (t-Bu) 3 P in hexanes (8.80
mL, 4.35 mmol) and Cul (207 mg, 1.08 mmol) at room temperature. The resulting mixture was
degassed with Argon for another 10 min and Pd(PPh 3) 4 (2.51 g, 2.17 mmol) was added in one
portion. After degassing with argon for 5 min, the resulting mixture was refluxed for 16 h. The
reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuum and the residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 2:3 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford compound 11 (7.00 g, 61% over two
steps) as a brown oil: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 , mixture of rotamers) 6 8.33 (dd, J = 8.9, 1.9
Hz, 1H), 8.07 (dd, J = 9.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.59-7.49 (m, 3H), 7.39-7.27 (m, 5H), 7.19 (d, J = 7.3
Hz, 1H), 5.24-5.16 (m, 1H), 5.12 (s, 2H), 5.08-4.99 (m, 1H), 4.69 (q, J = 6.7 Hz, 1H), 3.59 (s,
3H), 3.57-3.40 (m, 4H), 2.79 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 1.39 (s, 7.5 H), 1.11 (s, 1.5 H).
Preparation of compound 17;
To a solution of methyl ester 11 (7.00 g, 13.2 mmol) in THF (200 mL), methanol (200 mL) and
water (75.0 mL) was added solid NaOH (16.0 g, 79.2 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred at
room temperature for 1 h until TLC showed the reaction was completed. 1 N hydrochloric acid
was added to adjust pH of reaction mixture to 10. After concentrated; water (100 mL) was added
and pH was adjusted to 5-6. The resulting precipitate was extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 250 mL).
Organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and triturated with
                                               131

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
MTBE to afford compound 17 (5.00 g, 75%) as a white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D;
mixture of rotamers) 8 8.33 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 8.28-8.20 (m, 1H), 7.59-7.45 (m, 3H), 7.38-7.21
(m, 6H), 5.09 (s, 2H), 4.55-4.45 (m, 1H), 3.76-3.66 (m, 1H), 3.44 (t, J = 6.7 Hz, 2H), 3.28-3.20
(m, 1H), 2.76 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 1.29 (s, 6H), 0.82 (s, 3H).
Preparation of compound 30;
To a solution of compound 17 (4.60 g, 8.91 mmol) in THF (160 mL) were added T 3 P (50% in
ethyl acetate, 10.7 mL) and NMM (4.89 mL, 44.5 mmol) successively. After stirring at room
temperature for 10 min, amine 29 (6.11 g, 9.33 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 16 h. After the solvent was removed, the residue was dissolved in
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with saturated NH 4 Cl, saturated NaHCO 3 and brine, dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
9:1 CH 2 Cl 2 /MeOH) to afford amide 30 (6.60 g, 64%) as an off-white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCl3) 8 8.33 (dd, J= 9.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 8.17 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.62-7.47 (m, 4H), 7.42 (dd, J
= 7.7, 4.1 Hz, 4H), 7.37-7.28 (m, 11H), 7.09-6.95 (m, 4H), 5.46 (s, 2H), 5.33 (br s, 1H), 5.22 (t, J
= 5.8 Hz, 1H), 5.11 (s, 2H), 4.63-4.51 (m, 1H), 4.27 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 4.02-3.84 (m,
6H), 3.71 (t, J = 4.5 Hz, 6H impurities), 3.57 (t, J = 10.6 Hz, 2H), 3.54-3.45 (m, 4H), 2.82-2.60
(m, 6H), 2.59-2.45 (m, 3H), 2.44-2.36 (m, 4H), 1.82-1.69 (m, 2H), 1.38 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 31
A suspension of 30 (7.26 g, 6.20 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (1.50 g) in EtOH/AcOH (240 mL/40.0
mL) was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min and then subjected to
hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at room temperature.          The reaction mixture was
filtered through Celite and washed with MeOH.        The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum and
triturated with MTBE to afford amine salt 31 (7.06 g, 98%) as a brown solid: 1H NMR (400
MHz, CD 30D, mixture of rotamers) 8 8.24 (dd, J = 7.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.09 (d, J = 7.0 Hz, 1H),
7.59-7.22 (m, 2H), 7.49-7.41 (m, 4H), 7.39-7.22 (m, 10H), 6.95 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 2H), 5.51 (s, 2H),
4.55 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 4.24 (dd, J = 10.7, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 4.19-4. 10 (m, 2H), 3.99-3.88 (m, 4H),
3.83-3.73 (m, 8H, impurities), 3.61 (t, J = 10.5, Hz, 2H), 3.59-3.52 (m, 1H), 3.45-3.36 (m, 1H),
3.19-3.02 (m, 4H), 2.93-2.81 (m, 8H), 2.54.2.39 (m, 2H), 1.95 (s, 6H), 1.88-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.80
 1.65 (m, 4H), 1.36 (s, 7H), 1.09 (s, 2H).
Preparation of 32
                                                132

    WO 2014/099676                                                                PCT/US2013/075108
To a solution of 31 (7.06 g, 6.18 mmol) in EtOH (50.0 mL) was added DIPEA (8.80 mL, 49.4
mmol) followed by methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2-carbonylcarbamimidothioate                 (13,
3.84 g, 9.88 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C for 2 h,
cooled to room temperature and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified twice by
column chromatography (silica gel , 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to afford compound 32
(2.50 g, 33%) as a yellow solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D, mixture of rotamers) 6 8.22 (d, J           =
9.3 Hz, 1H), 8.08 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.56-7.47 (m, 4H), 7.43 (dd, J = 7.4, 3.6 Hz, 4H), 7.33
7.14 (m, 10H), 6.94 (d, J= 8.0 Hz, 2H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 4.53 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 4.22 (dd, J= 10.8,
5.4 Hz, 2H), 3.99-3.89 (m, 4H), 3.84 (dd, J = 5.5, 2.3 Hz, 2H), 3.70 (dd, J = 9.2, 2.2 Hz, 2H),
3.59 (t, J= 10.8 Hz, 2H), 3.54-3.46 (m, 1H), 3.47-3.38 (m, 1H), 3.22 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.11
3.02 (m, 2H), 2.70 (dd, J = 13.5, 4.6 Hz, 2H), 2.61 (dd, J = 13.6, 8.9, 2H), 2.57-2.47 (m, 2H),
2.46-2.34 (m, 2H), 1.84-1.73 (m, 2H), 1.72-1.61 (m, 4H), 1.36 (s, 7H), 1.12 (s, 2H).
Preparation       of   the    HCI      Salt   of     3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3
(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3
oxopropyl)naphthalen-1-yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide                 (33)
To a solution of 32 (2.50 g, 2.02 mmol) in EtOH (30.0 mL) was added 4 N hydrochloric acid
(80.0 mL). The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was
removed, purified by reverse phase column and lyophilized to afford compound 33 (1.82 g, 85%)
as a yellow hygroscopic solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 8 10.61 (s, 1H), 10.59 (s, 1H),
9.41 (t, J = 5.2 Hz, H), 9.01 (br s, 1H), 8.96 (br s, 1H), 8.81 (br s, 2H), 8.77 (br s, 2H), 8.44-8.37
(m, 1H), 8.16-8. 10 (m, 1H), 7.61-7.52 (m, 2H), 7.41 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.35 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H),
7.27 (d, J = 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H), 4.28 (q, J = 7.4 Hz, 1H), 4.09-3.99 (m, 2H),
3.75-3.65 (m, 3H), 3.58 (dd, J= 11.0, 2.6 Hz, 2H), 3.55-3.31 (m, 1OH), 3.30-3.13 (m, 4H), 3.32
3.00 (m, 2H), 2.63-2.53 (m, 2H), 2.05-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.78-1.61 (m, 4H).
1
 H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 8 9.25 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 0.5H), 8.26-8.21 (m, 1H), 8.17-8.12 (m, 1H),
7.60-7.54 m, 2H), 7.38 (d, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.32 (d, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H),
7.15 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H), 4.31 (t, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 4.21-4.14 (m, 1H), 4.13-4.08 (m, 1H), 3.85
3.80 (m, 2H), 3.79(d, J = 2.9 Hz, 1H), 3.76 (d, J = 3.2 Hz, 1H), 3.73-3.62 (m, 8H), 3.51-3.34 (m,
8H), 3.15 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 2.73-2.57 (m, 2H), 2.15-1.98 (m, 2H), 1.91-1.73 (m, 4H).
                                                 133

    WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
22. Preparation of (2R,2'R,3R,3'R,4R,4'R,5S,5'S)-6,6'-(3-(4
aminophenyl)propylazanediyl)dihexane-1,2,3,4,5-pentaol               (29)
                                  Scheme 23
                (Boc)20, TEA                           o 2N                                   NHBoc
                    NH                                         146I
            N12    CH 2 Cl2             NHBoc      9-BBN, PdCl 2 (PPh3 )2  oN
     144             82%               145             1 N aq NaOH                 147
                                                             60%
                                                    HO      OH                        4 N HCI in dioxane
                                                     0          OH                    93%
                               -Sug                    0 149Ph
                                                                                             NH2-HC
     O2N                     Sug        1. NaCNBH 3 , AcOH, MeOH          ON
                   150                  2. Hexanal                                  148
                     H 2, Pd/C
                     EtOH
                                                                                     OH    OH
                                                                                       (17
                                                                              Sug=
                                       N'                                          O
                                                                                   0Y        OH
                       Sug                                                           Ph
H2N    IH
                   153
Preparation of Compound 145
To a solution of compound 144 (8.80 g, 154.1 mmol) in CH 2Cl 2 (150 mL) was added TEA (32.2
mL, 231.2 mmol) and Boc 2 0 (40.4 g, 185.3 mmol) at 0 'C. The reaction mixture was continued
to be stirred at 0 'C for 0.5 h, allowed to be warmed to room temperature and stirred for 5 h.
Then the mixture was partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (150 mL) and water (150 mL). The aqueous
layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 150 mL). The combined organic extracts
were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , concentrated to afford desired compound 145 (22.0
g, 91%) as a colorless oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 8 5.90-5.77 (m, 1H), 5.17 (dq, J= 17.1,
1.7 Hz, 1H), 5.10 (dq, J= 10.4, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 4.64 (brs, 1H), 3.74 (t, J= 5.2 Hz, 2H), 1.45 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 147
To a solution of compound 145 (14.0 g, 89.12 mmol) in anhydrous THF (150 mL) was added 9
BBN (0.5 M in THF, 270 mL, 133.8 mmol) under argon. After the reaction mixture was stirred
for 2 h at room temperature, compound 146 (17.7 g, 71.3 mmol), Pd(PPh 3)2Cl 2 (3.12 g, 4.45
mmol), and 1 N aq NaOH (150 mL) were added at room temperature. The resulting mixture was
                                                     134

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
stirred for additional 1 h. After solvent removed; the residue was partitioned between EtOAc
(200 mL) and water (200 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc (2 x
200 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated under vacuum. The crude product was purified by column chromatography (silica
gel, 4:1 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford compound 147 (8.00 g, 43%) as a brown solid: 'H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl 3 )  8  8.14 (d, J = 8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J = 8.9 Hz, 2H), 4.56 (br s, 1H), 3.17 (q, J =
6.2 Hz, 2H), 2.75 (t, J= 7.7 Hz, 2H), 1.89-1.79 (m, 2H), 1.44 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 148;
Compound 147 (8.00 g, 28.6) was dissolved in 4 N HCl in dioxane (50.0 mL) at room
temperature and the solution was stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under
vacuum and the residue was triturated with MTBE to afford compound 148 (4.00 g, 65%) as a
brown solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 8 8.19 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H),
2.98 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.86 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.07-1.97 (m, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 150;
To a solution of compound 148 (4.00 g, 18.5 mmol) and triol 149 (24.8 g, 92.5 mmol) in MeOH
(150 mL) was added AcOH (11.1 mL, 185 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 10 min. After NaCNBH 3 (5.83 g, 92.5 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 24 h. Additional compound 149 (4.0 equiv),
AcOH (4.0 equiv) and NaCNBH 3 (4.0 equiv) were added over 4 days. Then hexanal (2.0 equiv),
AcOH (2.0 equiv) and NaCNBH 3 (2.0 equiv) were added. The solution was further stirred at
room temperature for 1 h. After removal of solvent, the residue was neutralized with saturated
NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc (200 mL) and water (200 mL). The
aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 300 mL). The combined organic
extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to
afford compound 150 (6.50 g, 52%) as an off-white solid. Additional 4.00 g of material from
impure fractions was isolated and purified by reverse phase column to afford 1.50 g (12%) of
pure compound150 (total 7.70 g, 64%): 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D) 6 8.03 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H),
7.50-7.41 (m, 4H), 7.35-7.23 (m, 8H), 5.48 (s, 2H), 4.22 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.3 Hz, 2H), 3.99-3.91 (m,
4H), 3.85 (dd, J = 5.5, 2.4 Hz, 2H), 3.70 (dd, J = 9.5, 2.4 Hz, 2H), 3.59 (t, J = 10.6 Hz, 2H), 2.73
(dd, J= 13.6, 4.5 Hz, 2H), 2.67-2.50 (m, 6H), 1.83-1.71 (m, 2H).
                                                135

     WO 2014/099676                                                          PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation     of   (2R,2'R,3R,3'R,4R,4'R,5S,5'S)-6,6'-(3-(4-aminophenyl)propylazanediyl)
dihexane-1,2,3,4,5-pentaol (Compound 153);
A suspension of compound 150 (6.50 g, 9.50 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (1.30 g) in EtOH (150 mL)
was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min then stirred at rt under hydrogen
atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 6 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered
through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford 153
(6.01 g, 97%) as an off-white solid: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 8 7.49-7.42 (m, 4H), 7.35
7.26 (m, 6H), 6.82 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 6.60 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 5.48 (s, 2H), 4.22 (dd, J= 10.8,
5.9 Hz, 2H), 3.98-3.89 (m, 4H), 3.83 (dd, J = 5.7, 2.3 Hz, 2H), 3.69 (dd, J = 13.2, 3.4 Hz, 2H),
3.62-3.55 (m, 3H), 2.71 (dd, J = 13.2, 3.4 Hz, 2H), 2.65-2.48 (m, 3H), 2.45-2.29 (m, 2H), 1.74
 1.63 (m, 2H).
23. Preparation of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((R)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)
2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (152)
Scheme 24
                                               136

     WO 2014/099676                                                                                                PCT/US2013/075108
                                                                                0
                                                                                                       o      OCH3
                                                          OH                       OCH3
                OH                                                           NilBoc                         "NR) o
                     N-bromosuccimide (142)                                       o                         ,'NHBoc
                               CH3 CN                                   Zn, 1 2, DMF
                                                          Br        Pd 2 (dba)3 , Sphos          /
             40                                           14                                       14
                                                                                                         H 1f     2 0, Pyridine, CH 2Cl 2
                                                                                            NHCbz
                                                                                                      H3CO2C
                             H3 CO2 C                  I                               10             H
                                                                               Pd(PPh 3)4 , Cul            BocHN
                                    BocHN                                       (t-Bu) 3P, Et3 N                     146          O~f
                    NaOH                                                            CH3 CN
        MeOH/THF/H 20                             147                   NHCbz
                                                   N- sugar
HO2 C                             H2N               sugar sugar-N
                                              29                      I
  BocHN                                 T3 P NMM THE                  sugar                             R
                                                                                                H
                                       NHCbz                                                     BocHIN
                148                                                                                    149
                                                                                                          Pd/C, H 2 (1 atm)          NHCbz
                                                                                                          EtOH, AcOH
                       OH    OH                  sugar-..0
           sugar=    -      (RS -                        s
                   0      0    OH                                                    N
                       Ph                                            0      NH        BocHN                                  NH 2 -2AcOH
                                                                   1
                                                         C      'j      N      SCH 3           150
                                                     H2 N     N      NH 2                 DIPEA, EtOH
                                                                    13
                       sugarHs
                                N                       0
                                       sgrN
                                                                                                   NHO0
                             HO                      BcHT                                      NNN             iN~
                          HO            OH                              151                            H
                                                                                                       H2N       N      NH 2
                                "(R)    OH
                       HO,,R       "OH                                    4 N aq HC EtOH
                                    N~O
                                                        0   (R
                                                     N!                                            NHO0
                                    ()               H      NH
                                    H"R)(R) OH                         152                      H                 N' C1
                                              H                H                                        H                  H
                                  HO'                                                                   H2N      N       NH2
Preparation of compound 14
To a solution of 1-naphthol (1, 10.0 g, 69.4 mmol) in acetonitrile (70.0 mL) was added several
portions of NBS (142, 12.3 g, 69.4 mmol) over a period of 30 min. The resulting mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 4 h, concentrated under vacuum, followed by addition of water
                                                                 137

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
(200 mL) and ethyl acetate (200 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with ethyl
acetate (2 x 200 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4
and concentrated. The residue was purified by crystallization (heptane/EtOAc) to afford desired
compound 14 (6.0 g, 39%) as a white solid. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 8 10.49 (s, 1H),
8.20 (dd, J= 8.3, 0.5 Hz, 1H), 8.02 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.66 (dd, J= 8.4, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (d, J
= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (ddd, J= 8.2, 7.7, 1.1 Hz, 1H), 6.83 (d, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H).
Preparation of compound 145
Zinc dust (4.76 g, 72.9 mmol) was added to a flame-dried, nitrogen-purged side arm round
bottomed flask. Anhydrous DMF (25.0 mL) was added via syringe, followed by a catalytic
amount of iodine (677 mg, 2.67 mmol). The resulting mixture was observed to undergo a colour
change from colorless to yellow and back to colourless. Protected iodoalanine 114 (8.00 g, 24.3
mmol) was added in one portion, followed by a catalytic amount of iodine (677 mg, 2.67 mmol)
and stirred at room temperature for 30 min; successful zinc insertion is accompanied by a mild
exotherm. The solution of organozinc reagent was allowed to cool to room temperature before
Pd2(dba) 3 (556 mg, 0.60 mmol), SPhos (498 mg, 1.21 mmol), and aryl bromide 14 (5.40 g, 24.3
mmol) were added and the mixture was heated at 50 C for 16 h, under a positive pressure of
nitrogen. The reaction mixture was allowed to cool to room temperature. Saturated NH 4 Cl
solution (300 mL) and EtOAc (300 mL) were added, and then the mixture was filtered through
Celite and washed with EtOAc (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with
EtOAc (2 x 300 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4
and concentrated under vacuum. Crude product was purified by column chromatography (silica
gel, 4:1 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford desired compound 145 (3.10 g, 37%) as a yellow solid. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 , mixture of rotamers): 8 8.23 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (d, J = 8.6 Hz,
1H), 7.54 (t, J= 8.04 Hz, 1H), 7.48 (ddd, J = 8.3, 6.9, 1.3 Hz, 1H), 7.08 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 6.70
(d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 5.98 (brs, 0.3H), 5.59 (br s, 0.7 H), 5.03 (d, J = 7.7 Hz, 0.85H), 4.84 (br s,
0.15H), 4.68 (q, J =6.8 Hz, 1H), 3.76-3,68 (m, 1H), 3.62 (s, 3H), 3.54-3..33 (m, 2H), 1.39 (s,
7H), 1.09 (s, 2H).
Preparation of compound 146
                                                138

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
To a solution of compound 145 (3.07 g, 8.90 mmol) in CH 2 Cl 2 (75.0 mL) was added pyridine
(7.25 mL, 88.9 mmol) and Tf 2O (2.24 mL, 13.3 mmol) at 0 'C. The resulting mixture was stirred
at room temperature for 2 h, concentrated under vacuum and partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (100
mL) and water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 50
mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated to afford compound 146 (4.20 g, crude) as a brown oil. The crude product was
directly used for the next step without further purification. IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 , mixture
of rotamers):   8 8.19-8.07 (m, 2H), 7.69-7.64 (m, 2H), 7.38 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, J= 7.9
Hz, 1H), 5.12-5.06 (br s, 1H), 4.78-4.67 (m, 1H), 3.68-3.46 (m, 5H), 1.39 (s, 8H), 1.25 (s, 1H).
Preparation of compound 147
The solution of compound 6 (4.20 g, 8.80 mmol, crude) and benzyl but-3-ynylcarbamate 7 (2.65
g, 13.2 mmol) in anhydrous acetonitrile (50.0 mL) was          degassed for 10 min under Argon
atmosphere followed by addition of TEA (4.81 mL, 35.2 mmol), 10% (t-Bu) 3P in hexanes (3.56
mL, 1.76 mmol) and Cul (84 mg, 0.44 mmol) at room temperature. The resulting mixture was
degassed with Argon for another 10 min and Pd(PPh 3) 4 (1.01 g, 0.88 mmol) was added in one
portion. After degassing with argon for 5 min, the resulting mixture was refluxed for 18 h. The
reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuum and the residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 2:3 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford compound 147 (3.20 g, 67% over two
steps) as a brown oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 , mixture of rotamers)      : 68.33 (dd, J= 8.9, 1.9
Hz, 1H), 8.07 (dd, J = 9.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 7.59-7.49 (m, 3H), 7.39-7.27 (m, 5H), 7.19 (d, J = 7.3
Hz, 1H), 5.24-5.16 (m, 1H), 5.12 (s, 2H), 5.08-4.99 (m, 1H), 4.69 (q, J = 6.7 Hz, 1H), 3.59 (s,
3H), 3.57-3.40 (m, 4H), 2.79 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 1.39 (s, 7.5 H), 1.11 (s, 1.5 H).
Preparation of compound 148
To a solution of methyl ester 147 (3.10 g, 5.84 mmol) in THF (60 mL), methanol (60 mL) and
water (20.0 mL) was added solid NaOH (1.40 g, 35.09 mmol). The resulting mixture was stirred
at room temperature for 2 h until TLC showed the reaction was completed. 1 N hydrochloric acid
was added to adjust pH of reaction mixture to 10. After concentrated; water (100 mL) was added
and pH was adjusted to 5-6. The resulting precipitate was extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 200 mL).
Organic layers were combined, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and triturated with
MTBE to afford compound 148 (3.00 g, 99%) as a white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D;
mixture of rotamers): 8    8.33 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 8.28-8.20 (m, 1H), 7.59-7.45 (m, 3H), 7.38
                                                139

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
7.21 (m, 6H), 5.09 (s, 2H), 4.55-4.45 (m, 1H), 3.76-3.66 (m, 1H), 3.44 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 3.28
3.20 (m, 1H), 2.76 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 1.29 (s, 6H), 0.82 (s, 3H).
Preparation of compound 149
To a solution of compound 148 (800 mg, 1.55 mmol) in THF (30 mL) were added T3 P (50% in
ethyl acetate, 1.86 mL) and NMM (0.85 mL, 7.75 mmol) successively. After stirring at room
temperature for 10 min, amine 29 (1.01 g, 1.55 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 1 h. After the solvent was removed, the residue was dissolved in
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), quickly washed with saturated NH 4 Cl, saturated NaHCO 3 and brine, dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel,
9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH) to afford amide 149 (1.20 g, 67%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCl3):   8 8.35 (d, J = 8.0, 1.7 Hz, 1H), 8.19 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 1H), 7.60-7.52 (m, 2H), 7.50 (d, J =
7.3 Hz, 2H), 7.45-7.39 (m, 5H), 7.37-7.28 (m, 11H), 7.08-6.96 (m, 3H), 5.47 (s, 2H), 5.33-5.17
(m, 2H), 5.12 (s, 2H), 4.59-4.48 (m, 1H), 4.29 (dd, J = 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 4.07-4.00 (m, 2H),
3.99-3.91 (m, 4H), 3.78-3.68 (m, 3H), 3.59 (t, J = 10.6 Hz, 2H), 3.55-3.46(m, 4H), 2.95-2.82 (m,
2H), 2.81-2.69 (m, 4H), 2.68-2.57 (m, 1H), 2.56-2.44 (m, 3H), 2.43-2.38 (m, 1H), 1.85-1.69
(m, 2H), 1.38 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 150
A suspension of 149 (1.15         g, 1.00 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (230 mg) in EtOH/AcOH (80.0
mL/20.0 mL) was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min and then subjected
to hydrogenation conditions (1 atm) for 16 h at room temperature.         The reaction mixture was
filtered through Celite and washed with MeOH.          The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum and
triturated with MTBE to afford amine salt 150 (1.12 g, 97%) as a brown solid. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CD 30D, mixture of rotamers): 8 8.25 (dd, J = 7.2, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 8.09 (d, J = 7.0 Hz, 1H),
7.59-7.51 (m, 2H), 7.48-7.41 (m, 4H), 7.37-7.21 (m, 1OH), 6.94 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H), 5.52 (s,
2H), 4.54 (t, J = 7.2 Hz, 1H), 4.24 (dd, J = 10.7, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 4.16-4.08 (m, 2H), 3.97-3.88 (m,
4H), 3.75-3.70 (m, 2H), 3.62 (t, J= 10.5, Hz, 2H), 3.60-3.51 (m, 1H), 3.28-3.15 (m, 2H), 3.14
2.95 (m, 4H), 2.89 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.73-2.67 (m, 1H), 2.54-2.39 (m, 2H), 1.95 (s, 6H), 1.88
 1.64 (m, 8H), 1.36 (s, 7.5H), 1.09 (s, 1.5H).
Preparation of 151
                                                  140

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
To a solution of 150 (1.05 g, 0.92 mmol) in EtOH (15.0 mL) was added DIPEA (1.30 mL, 7.35
mmol) followed by methyl 3,5-diamino-6-chloropyrazine-2-carbonylcarbamimidothioate             (13,
573 mg, 1.47 mmol) at room temperature. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C for 2 h,
cooled to room temperature and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified twice by
column chromatography (silica gel , 80:18:2 CHCl 3/CH 30H/NH 40H) to afford compound 151
(410 mg, 36%) as a yellow solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D, mixture of rotamers): 6 8.22 (d, J
= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 8.09 (d, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.56-7.48 (m, 2H), 7.47-7.40 (m, 4H), 7.33-7.25 (m,
6H), 7.22 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 7.16 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 2H), 6.94 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 2H), 5.47 (s, 2H),
4.53 (t, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 4.22 (dd, J = 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 3.99-3.89 (m, 4H), 3.84 (dd, J = 5.5,
2.1 Hz, 2H), 3.70 (dd, J = 9.1, 2.0 Hz, 2H), 3.59 (t, J = 10.8 Hz, 2H), 3.53-3.47 (m, 1H), 3.46
3.39 (m, 1H), 3.26-3.17 (m, 2H), 3.12-3.04 (m, 2H), 2.70 (dd, J= 13.2, 4.0 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (dd, J
= 13.0, 8.2, 2H), 2.57-2.49 (m, 2H), 2.47-2.33 (m, 2H), 1.84-1.73 (m, 2H), 1.72-1.61 (m, 4H),
1.37 (s, 7H), 1.12 (s, 2H).
Synthesis of 3,5-diamino-N-(N-(4-(4-((R)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6
pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1
yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2-carboxamide (152)
To a solution of 151 (480 mg, 0.42 mmol) in EtOH (5.0 mL) was added 4 N hydrochloric acid
(25.0 mL). The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was
removed, purified by reverse phase column and lyophilized to afford compound 152 (300 mg,
71%) as a yellow hygroscopic solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.57 (brs, 1H), 10.55
(brss, 1H), 9.35 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1H), 9.04-8.84 (m, 2H), 8.81-8.66 (m, 4H), 8.42-8.36 (m, 1H),
8.16-8.10 (m, 1H), 7.61-7.53 (m, 2H), 7.41 (d, J= 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.35 (d, J= 7.5 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d,
J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, 2H), 4.32-4.23 (m, 1H), 4.08-3.97 (m, 2H), 3.75-3.30 (m,
 13H), 3.29-3.15 (m, 4H), 3.14-2.97 (m, 2H), 2.64-2.53 (m, 2H), 2.05-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.60
(m, 4H).
 H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D): 8 8.25-8.21 (m, 1H), 8.18-8.13 (m, 1H), 7.59-7.53 (m, 2H), 7.38
(d, J = 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.32 (d, J = 7.3 Hz, 1H), 7.26 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.15 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H),
4.30 (t, J= 7.3 Hz, 1H), 4.20-4.14 (m, 1H), 4.13-4.08 (m, 1H), 3.84-3.80 (m, 2H), 3.79-3.75(m,
2H), 3.72-3.61 (m, 8H), 3.51-3.34 (m, 8H), 3.15 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, 2H), 2.74-2.58 (m, 2H), 2.13
 1.98 (m, 2H), 1.91-1.73 (m, 4H).
                                                141

     WO 2014/099676                                                                        PCT/US2013/075108
HRMS calculated for C44H 64 ClN      10 0 12 [M + Na]*, 959.4418 and found 959.4394.
     24. Preparation of intermediate 18
                                                    Scheme 25
                                                                    Br
                 (Boc) 2 O                          0 2N  16NHBoc
                                     NHBoc                156
      -   NH2    (13002
               CH 2 Cl 2 /TEA                    PdCl 2 (PPh 3 )2 , Cul,N
       154                         155            PPh 3 ,TEA, THF                  157
                                                                                        4 N HCl in dioxane
                                                                       CH3                               NH-HCI
                                                  N CH3             HCHO, NaCNBH 3
                            02N                   CH 3                 AcOH, MeOH  0 2N         158
                                       159
                                          H 2, Pd/C
                                          MeOH
                            H2 N                  CH 3
                                       18
Preparation of Compound 155;
To a solution of compound 154 (500 mg, 9.00 mmol) in CH 2Cl 2 (50 mL) was added TEA (1.63
mL, 11.7 mmol) and Boc 2 0 (2.16 g, 9.90 mmol) at 0 'C. The reaction mixture was continued to
be stirred at 0 'C for 0.5 h, allowed to be warmed to room temperature and stirred for 3 h. Then
the mixture was partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (50 mL) and water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was
separated and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 50 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed
with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , concentrated, the residue was purified by column chromatography
(silica gel, 2:3 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford desired compound 155 (1.20 g, 86%) as a colorless oil.
1
 H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ):       8  4.70 (br s, 1H), 3.91 (dd, J = 5.3, 2.2 Hz, 2H), 2.21 (t, J = 2.7 Hz,
1H), 1.45 (s, 9H).
Preparation of compound 157;
 The solution of compound 155 (1.00 g, 6.45mmol) and 156 (1.30 g, 6.45 mmol) in anhydrous
THF (15 mL) was degassed for 10 min under Argon atmosphere followed by addition of TEA
(3.53 mL, 25.8 mmol), PPh3 (424 mg, 1.61 mmol) and Cul (246 mg, 1.29 mmol) at room
                                                         142

     WO 2014/099676                                                          PCT/US2013/075108
temperature. The resulting mixture was degassed with Argon for another 10 min and Pd(PPh3) 4
(7.45 g, 6.45 mmol) was added in one portion. After degassing with argon for 5 min, the resulting
mixture was refluxed for 16 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuum and the residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 2:3 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford compound 157
(750 mg, 42%) as a brown oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) : 68.17 (d, J= 9.2 Hz, 2H), 7.55 (d,
J= 9.2 Hz, 2H), 4.79 (brs, 1H), 4.18 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 1.47 (s, 9H).
Preparation of Compound 158;
Compound 157 (2.00 g, 7.24) was dissolved in 4 N HCl in dioxane (20.0 mL) at room
temperature and the solution was stirred for 2 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated under
vacuum and the residue was triturated with MTBE to afford compound 158 (1.25 g, 82%) as a
brown solid. 1H NMR (300 MHz, CD 3 0D): 8 8.26 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 2H), 7.72 (d, J = 9.2 Hz, 2H),
4.09 (s, 2H).
Preparation of Compound 159;
To a solution of compound 158 (100 mg, 0.47 mmol) and formaldehyde solution in water (30%,
 1.40 mL, 1.41 mmol) in MeOH (3.0 mL) was added AcOH (0.09 mL, 1.41 mmol) and the
reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. After NaCNBH 3 (88 mg, 1.41
mmol) was added, the solution was continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h.
Additional formaldehyde solution in water (30%, 0. 92 mL, 0.94 mmol), AcOH (0.09 mL, 1.41
mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (88 mg, 1.41 mmol) were added and stirred for another 16 h. After
removal of solvent, the residue was neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was
partitioned between EtOAc (30 mL) and water (30 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and
extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 40 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1
CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 40H) to afford compound159 (50 g, 52%) as an off
white oil. 1H NMR (300 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.17 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.57 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, 2H),
3.50 (s, 2H), 2.37 (s, 6H).
Preparation of Compound 18;
A suspension of compound 159 (100 mg, 0.49 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (40 mg) in MeOH (3.0 mL)
was degassed with Argon for 10 min then stirred under hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for
3 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through celite and washed with
                                               143

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum and triturated with CH 2 Cl2/hexane to afford 18
(48 mg, 55%) as a white crystal: 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ):      8 6.96 (d, J= 8.3 Hz, 2H), 6.60 (d,
J = 8.3 Hz, 2H), 3.47 (br s, 2H), 2.53 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, 2H), 2.26 (dd, J= 8.7, 7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.22 (s,
6H), 1.77-1.67 (m, 2H).
    Preparation of intermediate 29
                                             Scheme 26
                                                           OH                         , sugar
                                              0        0'
                            NH2 eHCl     H3C  0I          'OH
                                                160 OH                               Sugar
                                        NaCNBH 3 , AcOH, MeOH  0 2N          161
        02 N
                     158
                                                                                Pd(OH)2 /C, H2
                                                                                MeOH
                                                    CH3
                                                      0         HNsugar
                                 sugar=    /
                                              OH OH            H 2N           29
Preparation of Compound 161;
To a solution of compound 158 (4.00 g, 18.9 mmol) and triol 160 (11.7 g, 56.6 mmol) in MeOH
(50 mL) was added AcOH (3.40 mL, 56.6 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 30 min. After NaCNBH 3 (3.55 g, 56.6 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Additional compound 160 (11.7 g, 56.6
mmol), AcOH (3.40 mL, 56.6 mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (3.55 g, 56.6 mmol) were added the
solution was continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. After removal of solvent, the
residue was neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned between CH 2Cl 2
(10 mL) and water (10 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 10
mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum.
The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2
CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to afford compound 29 (700 mg, 7.0%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR
(300 MHz, CD 3 0D): 8 8.21 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.66 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 4.68 (q, J = 5.1 Hz,
2H), 4.04 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 2H), 3.99-3.93 (m, 2H), 3.86-3.74 (m, 6H), 3.54 (dd, J= 9.8, 2.3
Hz, 2H), 3.36 (t, J = 10.7 Hz, 2H), 2.87 (dd, J = 13.3, 4.9 Hz, 2H), 2.74 (dd, J = 13.3, 7.8 Hz,
2H), 1.25 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of Compound 29;
                                                   144

     WO 2014/099676                                                                      PCT/US2013/075108
A suspension of compound 161 (500 mg, 0.90 mmol) and 10% Pd(OH) 2 /C (215 mg) in EtOH
(230 mL) was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min then stirred under
hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 2 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was
filtered through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum and
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2
CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to afford compound29 (264 mg, 55%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR
(400 MHz, CD 3 0D): 8 6.97 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H), 6.67 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H), 4.71 (q, J = 5.1 Hz,
2H), 4.06 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.3 Hz, 2H), 4.13-4.05 (m, 2H), 3.81 (dd, J= 5.0, 2.3 Hz, 2H), 3.80-3.72
(m, 2H), 3.51 (dd, J = 9.6, 2.4 Hz, 2H), 3.33-3.23 (m, 2H), 3.38 (t, J = 10.7 Hz, 2H), 2.83-2.54
(m, 6H), 1.85-1.69 (m, 2H), 1.26 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 6H).
Preparation of intermediate 24
                                                 Scheme 27
                                                          0    OH0
                                NH 2 eHCI      H3C  o0        'OH                          N- sugar
                                                       1600HH
                                             NaCNBH 3, AcOH, MeOH
           0 2N          158                                           02N          162
                                                                                H
                     CH3                                           H3C            O    NaCNBH 3. AcOH, MeOH
                                                                            163
            OH   0     0
 sugar -       R-, -                                                                           sugar
                                                 N H6gar     Pd/C H2    0
              OH OH                                                  2IN
                                                               MeOH                        U6I
                          112 N                      1           eH0     2N
                                          24                                        164
Preparation of Compound 162;
To a solution of compound 158 (200 mg, 0.94 mmol) and triol160 (194 mg, 0.94 mmol) in
MeOH (2.0 mL) was added AcOH (0.17 mL, 2.82 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at
room temperature for 30 min. After NaCNBH 3 (148 mg, 2.35 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Additional compound 160 (0.2 equiv),
AcOH (3.0 equiv) and NaCNBH 3 (1.0 equiv) were added the solution was continued to be stirred
at room temperature for 16 h. After removal of solvent, the residue was neutralized with
saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (10 mL) and water (10 mL).
The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 10 mL). The combined organic
extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by
column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to
                                                    145

    WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
afford compound 162 (95 mg, 28%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D): 6 8.24
(d, J= 9.1 Hz, 2H), 7.69 (d, J= 9.1 Hz, 2H), 4.70 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 4.09-4.02 (m, 2H), 4.00
(d, J= 2.1 Hz, 2H), 3.83 (dd, J=5.1, 2.3 Hz, 1H), 3.81-3.71 (m, 1H), 3.53 (dd, J= 9.3, 2.3 Hz,
1H), 3.38 (t, J= 11.0 Hz, 1H), 3.21-3.07 (m, 2H), 1.25 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 164; To a solution of compound 162 (95 mg, 0.26 mmol) and
hexanal 163 (52 mg, 0.51 mmol), AcOH (0.05 mL, 0.78 mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (41 mg,
0.65mmol) were added. The solution was stirred at room temperature for 16 h. After removal of
solvent, the residue was neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned
between EtOAc (10 mL) and water (10 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with
CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 10 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated
under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1
CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 40H) to afford compound 164 (70 mg, 59%) as an
off-white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ):   8 8.18(d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 7.56 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H),
4.70 (q, J = 5.0 Hz, 1H), 4.15 (dd, J = 10.4, 5.2 Hz, 1H), 4.01-3.89 (m, 2H), 3.83 (dd, J = 3.8,
2.7 Hz, 1H), 3.77 (brs, 1H), 3.70 (brs, 1H), 3.64 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, 1H), 3.56 (dd, J = 9.2, 4.0 Hz,
1H), 3.41 (t, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 2.87 (dd, J= 13.2, 4.3 Hz, 1H), 2.78-2.68 (m, 2H), 2.63-2.55 (m,
1H), 1.75-1.43 (m, 4H), 1.34 (d, J= 5.0 Hz, 3H), 1.32-1.25 (m, 6H), 0.89 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 24
A suspension of compound 164 (1.70 g, 3.77 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (200 mg) in MeOH (40 mL)
was degassed with Argon for 10 min then stirred under hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for
2 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through celite and washed with
MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum and residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to afford
compound 24 (1.20 g, 76%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3): 6 6.96 (d, J = 8.9
Hz, 2H), 6.62 (d, J= 8.9 Hz, 2H), 4.68 (q, J= 5.0 Hz, 1H), 4.14 (dd, J= 11.0, 5.5Hz, 1H), 3.92
3.81 (m, 2H), 3.72 (dd, J= 3.8, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 3.50 (dd, J= 9.1, 4.0 Hz, 1H), 3.40 (t, J= 10.5 Hz,
1H), 2.76-2.38 (m, 1OH), 1.81-1.64 (m, 3H), 1.48-1.36 (m, 2H), 1.33 (d, J= 5.0 Hz, 3H), 1.30
1.20 (m, 6H), 0.88 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of intermediate 85
                                               146

     WO 2014/099676                                                                   PCT/US2013/075108
                                                 Scheme 28
                                                  Hq      OH
                                                    0        OH
                             N H 2 -H C l                6 Psugar
       O2 N          148                 1. NaCNBH 3 , AcOH, MeOH   O2 N
                                        2.                H                         166
                                             H3C            0d/C
                                                    163                            EtOH
                                 OH    OH
                      sugar=  0
                                                                  HN
                                                                                          6  3
                                 Ph                                             85
Preparation of Compound 166;
To a solution of compound 148 (4.60 g, 21.3 mmol) and triol 165 (17.1 g, 63.9 mmol) in MeOH
(100 mL) was added AcOH (12.1 mL, 63.9 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 10 min. After NaCNBH 3 (4.00 g, 63.9 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 6 h. Then hexanal       163 (5.10 mL, 42.66I mmol) and
                                Y 0        HH                      2N
NaCNBH 3 (2.60 g, 42.6 mmol) were added. The solution was further stirred at room temperature
for 2 h. After removal of solvent, the residue was neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the
residue was partitioned between EtOAc (200 mL) and water (200 mL). The aqueous layer was
separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 300 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to afford
compound 166 (6.90 g, 64%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 8.12 (d, J=
8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.51-7.43 (m, 2H), 7.38 (d, J = 8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.37-7.27 (m, 3H), 5.55 (s, 1H), 4.24
(dd, J= 11.5, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 4.18-4.01 (m, 1H), 4.00-3.94 (m, 1H), 3.93-3.89 (m, 1H), 3.77 (dd, J
= 9.3, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 3.61 (t, J= 10.7 Hz, 1H), 3.13-2.77 (m, 6H), 2.71 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 1.99
 1.85 (m, 2H), 1.55-1.42 (m, 2H), 1.38-1.18 (m, 6H), 0.87 (t, J= 7.0 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 85;
A suspension of compound166 (800 mg, 1.55 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (300 mg) in EtOH (40 mL)
was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min then stirred at room temperature
under hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 2 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture
                                                       147

     WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
was filtered through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to
afford 85 (700 mg, 93%) as an off-white solid. 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 7.52-7.42 (m,
2H), 7.38-7.25 (m, 3H), 6.88 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 6.63 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 5.53 (s, 1H), 4.24 (dd,
J = 10.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 4.05-3.84 (m, 3H), 3.76 (dd, J = 9.6, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 3.61 (t, J = 10.8 Hz,
 1H), 2.93 (dd, J= 13.6, 5.0 Hz, 1H), 2.79 (dd, J= 13.4, 9.0 Hz, 1H), 2.73-2.60 (m, 4H), 2.42 (t,
J = 8.0 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.68 (m, 2H), 1.48-1.36 (m, 2H), 1.33-1.14 (m, 6H), 0.87 (t, J= 7.0 Hz,
3H).
Preparation of intermediate 34
                                                    Scheme 29
                         , sugar                                 ,sugar
                                                                Boc     Pd/C, H2                    sugar
                                  Boc 20, NaHCO3
                                       MeOH                              E     H H,
                                               ON                        EtOH HN      r
 02N
             162                                 2        168                            34
                                     CH 3
                               OH 0     0
                 sugar =
                                 OH OH
Preparation of Compound 168;
A solution of 162 (534 mg, 1.45 mmol) in MeOH (30 mL) and was charged with saturated
NaHCO 3 solution in water (5.0 ml) at 0 'C and stirred for 10 min. (Boc) 2 0 (350 mg, 1.60m
mmol) was then added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 3 h at the same
temperature,brought to room temperature, and stirred for another 30 min. The mixture was
concentrated, the residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (100 mL), and the solution was washed with
water (100 mL) and brine (50 mL).                  The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered,
concentrated and residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH,
8:2 CHCl 3/MeOH) to afford compound 168 (435 mg, 64%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl 3 ):    8  8.18 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.56 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H), 4.72 (q, J = 5.1 Hz, 1H),
4.41-4.35 (m, 2H), 4.16 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 4.15-4.04 (m, 1H), 3.93-3.83 (m, 1H), 3.81
3.76 (m, 1H), 3.66-3.53 (m, 4H), 3.40 (t, J = 11.0 Hz, 1H), 3.25-3.12 (m, 1H), 3.08-2.96 (m,
 1H), 1.49 (s, 9H), 1.32 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 34;
                                                       148

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
A suspension of compound 168 (80 mg, 0.21 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (40 mg) in EtOH (10 mL)
was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min then stirred under hydrogen
atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 2 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered
through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford 34 (82
mg, 89%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ):      8 6.96 (d, J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 6.62 (d,
J= 8.1 Hz, 2H), 4.69 (q, J= 5.1 Hz, 1H), 4.15 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.5 Hz, 1H), 4.13-4.09 (m, 1H),
4.01-3.93 (m, 1H), 3.89-3.78 (m, 1H), 3.75-3.68 (m, 1H), 3.62-3.43 (m, 4H), 3.40 (t, J = 11.3
Hz, 1H), 3.35 (dd, J= 13.5, 4.0 Hz, 1H), 3.26 (t, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 3.23-3.13 (m, 1H), 2.48 (t, J=
7.8 Hz, 2H), 1.86-1.76 (m, 2H), 1.43 (s, 9H), 1.33 (d, J= 5.1 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of intermediate 171
                                                  Scheme 30
                                     HO,    PH
                                      O        OH
                    NH 2 -HCI            16Ph                       sua          ,           Nsugar
0 2N                           NaCNBH 3. AcOH      02N           sugar 0 2N
             148                      MeOH                  150                    169
                                                                                      Boc 2 0, NaHCO
                                                                                                       3
                                                                                      MeOH/H 2 0
                                      OH    OH                                                N Isugar
                           sugar -0                                       2N                      suga
                                    0     0    OH                                  170
                                       Ph                                            Pd/C. H 2
                                                                                     EtOH
                                                                                             H , sugar
                                                                                             Boc
                                                                       H2N
                                                                                   171
To a solution of compound 148 (6.40 g, 29.6 mmol) and triol 165 (11.9 g, 44.5 mmol) in MeOH
(300 mL) was added AcOH (5.32 mL, 88.8 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 30 min. After NaCNBH 3 (3.73 g, 59.2 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Additional compound 165 (11.9 g, 44.5
mmol), AcOH (5.32 mL, 88.8 mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (3.73 g, 59.2 mmol) were added the
solution was continued to be stirred at room temperature for 14 h. Additional compound 165
(7.93 g, 29.6 mmol), AcOH (3.55 mL, 59.2 mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (2.80 g, 44.4 mmol) were
                                                      149

      WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
added the solution was continued to be stirred at room temperature for 10 h. After removal of
solvent, the residue was neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned
between CH 2Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted
with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 100 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated under vacuum. Challenging purification encountered by column chromatography
(silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4 0H) to afford compound 150 and 169
(20 g, mixture). The mixture was directly used for next step.
Preparation of Compound 170;
A solution of 150 and 169 (20.0 g, mixture) in MeOH (120 mL) and water (40 mL) was charged
with saturated NaHCO 3 (9.99 g, 118.4 mmol) at 0 'C and stirred for 10 min. (Boc) 2 0 (9.69 g,
44.4 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min at the same temperature,
brought to room temperature, and stirred for another 2 h. The mixture was concentrated, the
residue was dissolved in CH 2Cl 2 (100 mL), and the solution was washed with water (100 mL)
and brine (50 mL). The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, concentrated and residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 8:2 CHCl 3/MeOH) to
afford compound 150 (1.50 g) and 170 (4.50 g) as an off-white solid. ESI-MS m/z 529
[C 2 7H 32 N 2 0 9 + H]*.
Preparation of Compound 171
A suspension of compound170 (4.20 g, 7.92 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (500 mg) in EtOH (100 mL)
and AcOH (10 mL) was degassed with Argon for 10 min then stirred under hydrogen atmosphere
(balloon, 1atm) for 16 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through celite
and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum, neutralized with Na 2 CO 3 and
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 8:2
CHCl 3/MeOH) to afford compound 172 (2.70 g, 68%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CD 30D): 8 7.52-7.44 (m, 2H), 7.36-7.29 (m, 3H), 6.89 (d, J = 8.3 Hz, 2H), 6.64 (d, J = 8.3 Hz,
2H), 5.54 (s, 1H), 4.23 (dd, J= 11.9, 5.9 Hz, 1H), 4.10-3.97 (m, 1H), 3.97-3.89 (m, 1H), 3.81
3.75 (m, 1H), 3.74-3.69 (m, 1H), 3.60 (t, J= 10.9 Hz, 1H), 3.48 (dd, J= 14.1, 4.6 Hz, 1H), 3.28
3.22 (m, 3H), 2.41 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 1.83-1.71 (m, 2H), 1.41 (s, 9H).
Preparation of intermediate 39
                                            Scheme 31
                                                150

     WO 2014/099676                                                                  PCT/US2013/075108
              TOH                                       OH                                       Olos
                        173                                DMIAP. TEA
 02N  (     r   Pd(PPh 3) 4, Cul,                          TsCL C1 2C12
        172     (t-Bu) 3 P, Et 3N, 0 2 N 174                            02 N            175
                    CH 3 CN
                                                                     40% NHMe 2 in H 20
                                                                                   THF           CH,
                                                 CH 3
                                                      I       Pd/C, H2                           N
                                                 NCH                                               CH 3
                             H2N                      H3       EtOH     02N             176
The solution of compound 17 (30. 0 g, 121 mmol) and 173 (14.2 g, 145 mmol) in anhydrous
acetonitrile (300 mL) was degassed for 10 min under Argon atmosphere followed by addition of
TEA (67 mL, 484 mmol), 10% (t-Bu) 3P in hexanes (49.0 mL, 24.2 mmol) and Cul (1.15 g, 6.05
mmol) at room temperature. The resulting mixture was degassed with Argon for another 10 min
and Pd(PPh 3)4 (14.0 g g, 12.1mmol) was added in one portion. After degassing with argon for 5
min, the resulting mixture was heated at 50 0C for 16 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in
vacuum and the residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 2:3 hexanes/EtOAc)
to afford compound 174 (15.0 g, 58%) as a brown oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.14 (d, J=
8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 3.71 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.50 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 1.80-1.70
(m, 4H), 1.70-1.65 (m, 1H).
Preparation of Compound 175;
To a solution of compound 174 (15.0 g, 67.9 mmol) in anhydrous CH 2Cl 2 (50 mL) was added
Et3N (28.0 mL, 203.7 mmol) and DMAP (4.12 g, 33.9 mmol) under argon at 0 0C. After the
reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min at same temperature, TsCl (32.5 g, 170 mmol), was added
at 0 0C. The resulting mixture was stirred for additional 4 h at room temperature. After solvent
removed; the residue was partitioned between CH 2Cl 2 (250 mL) and water (150 mL). The
aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 250 mL). The combined organic
extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The residue
was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, hexanes/EtOAc) to afford compound175
(15.0 g, 60%) as a brown oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3): 8 8.15 (d, J = 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.79 (d, J
= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.50 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 7.34 (d, J= 8.8 Hz, 2H), 4.10 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.44 (t,
J= 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.44 (s, 3H), 1.90-1.79 (m, 2H), 1.75-1.61 (m, 2H).
Preparation of Compound176;
                                                151

     WO 2014/099676                                                                       PCT/US2013/075108
To a solution of compound 175 (5.00 g, 12.9 mmol, crude) in THF ( 10 mL) was added NHMe 2
in water (30%, 50.0 mL) and then stirred at rt in seal tube for 3 h. After solvent removed; the
residue was partitioned between CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer was
separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 100 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed
with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The crude product was purified
by column chromatography (silica gel) to afford compound 176 (400 mg, 13%) as a yellow
sticky solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ):           8 8.15 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H), 7.51 (d, J= 7.3 Hz, 2H),
2.48 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 2H), 2.30 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 2H), 2.23 (s, 6H), 1.70-1.61 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 39;
A suspension of compound176 (400 mg, 1.62 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (50 mg) in EtOH (50 mL)
was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10 min then stirred at room temperature
under hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 16 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture
was filtered through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to
afford 39 (300 mg, 84%) as a brown sticky solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 6.91 (d, J                           =
7.5 Hz, 2H), 6.65 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 2H), 2.47 (t, J = 7.0 Hz, 2H), 2.30 (dd, J = 8.4, 6.5 Hz, 2H),
2.23 (s, 6H), 1.60-1.52 (m, 2H), 1.51-1.41 (m, 2H), 1.38-1.27 (m, 4H).
31 Preparation of intermediate 44
                                                    Scheme 32
                            OToS    7 N NH 3 in MeOH                               NH 2
                         17175Q.Q
 02N           175                                                     177
                                                                                 0        OH
                                                       NaCNBH 3, AcOH, MeOH
                                                                                    165Ph
                                                                 H                                       sugar
                                                                    sugar                                   sugar
                                       ON            178                    2  ::            79
                                                                                             1
                                                                                               Pd/C, H2
                                                                                               EtOH/AcOH
                                          OH   OH                                                        sugar
                             su gar     -                                   H2                              s u ga r
                                      0      0   OH
                                                                                            44          2AcOH
                                          Ph
                                                         152

     WO 2014/099676                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 177;
Solution of compound 175 (6.00 g, 16.0 mmol) in 7 N NH 3 in methanol (150 mL) was heated at
30 C in seal tube for 5 h. Temperature raised to 40 C and stirred for 16 h then again temperature
raised to 60 C and stirred for 4 h. After solvent removed; the residue was partitioned between
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with
CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 100 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The crude product was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH) to afford compound177 (1.48 g, 43%) as yellow
oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 6 8.16 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 7.39 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 3.61 (t, J=
5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.08-2.05 (m, 2H), 1.65-1.53 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compounds 178 and 179;
To a solution of compound 177 (1.38 g, 6.33 mmol) and triol 165 (2.03 g, 7.59 mmol) in MeOH
(10 mL) was added AcOH (0.6 mL, 9.49 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 30 min. After NaCNBH 3 (800 mg, 12.7 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Additional compound 165 (2.55 g, 9.49
mmol), AcOH (0.80 mL, 12.7 mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (1.19 g, 18.9 mmol) were added the
solution was continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Additional compound 165
(2.55 g, 9.49 mmol), AcOH (0.80 mL, 12.7 mmol) and NaCNBH 3 (1.19 g, 18.9 mmol) were
added the solution was continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h.After removal of
solvent, the residue was neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned
between CH 2 Cl 2 (10 mL) and water (10 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted
with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 10 mL). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated under vacuum. The residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1
CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2 CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 40H) to afford compound 179 (2.28 g, 51%) as an
off-white solid. 1H NMR (300 MHz, CD 30D): 8 8.14 (d, J = 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.54 (d, J = 9.0 Hz,
2H), 7.47-7.44 (m, 4H), 7.34-7.30 (m, 6H), 5.48 (s, 2H), 4.24-4.19 (m, 2H), 3.99-3.94 (m, 4H),
3.86-3.84 (m, 2H), 3.73-3.69 (m, 2H), 3.57 (t, J= 10.8 Hz, 4H), 3.35-3.25 (m, 4H), 2.33 (d, J=
6.9 Hz, 2H),, 1.61-1.51 (m, 4H).
A mixture of 178/179 (900 mg) was isolated as well and was directly used for next step (SG
GHC-G-106).
                                               153

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 44;
A suspension of compound 179 (2.26 g, 3.11 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (100 mg) in a mixture of
EtOH (50 mL) and AcOH (10 mL) was degassed with Argon for 10 min then stirred under
hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 16 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was
filtered through celite and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford
44 (1.90 g, 80%) as a brown solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 8 7.46-7.44 (m, 4H), 7.33
7.31 (m, 6H), 6.89 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 6.65 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 2H), 5.51 (s, 2H), 4.26-4.14 (m, 2H),
3.93-3.90 (m, 2H), 3.76-3.73 (m, 4H), 3.63-3.58 (m, 4H), 3.35-3.25 (m, 2H), 3.10-3.00 (m,
2H), 2.41 (t, J= 7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.47-1.45 (m, 4H), 1.16-1.12 (m, 4H).
Preparation of intermediate 49
                                           Scheme 33
                                 H                                                        Boc
                                 N,sugar  Boc 2 0, NaHCO 3                                N,sugar
                      178                   MeOH/H 2 0                       180
     0 2N                                                  0 2N              1
                                                                                Pd/C, H 2
                                                                                EtOH/AcOH
                              OH OH
                                               7                                          Boc
                    sugar= -                                  2                           Nsugar
                           0 Y0    OH
                                    PhH                      2N              49
Preparation of Compound 180;
A solution of 178 (900 mg, mixture, apox. 2.0 mmol) in a mixture of MeOH (20 mL) and water
(10 mL) a and was charged with NaHCO 3 (672 mg, 4.0 mmol) at 0 'C and stirred for 10 min.
(Boc)2 0 (524 mg, 2.40 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at the same
temperature, brought to room temperature, and stirred for another 4 h. The mixture was
concentrated, the residue was dissolved in CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL), and the solution was washed with
water (100 mL) and brine (50 mL). The organic layer was dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered,
concentrated and residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH,
8:2 CHCl 3/MeOH) to afford compound180 (780 mg, 64%) as an off-white solid. 1H NMR (300
MHz, CD 3OD): 8 8.16 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.55 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.50-7.47 (m, 2H), 7.34
7.30 (m, 3H), 5.53 (s, 1H), 4.25-4.20 (m, 1H), 4.10 (br s, 1H), 3.94-3.91 (m, 1H), 3.80-3.48 (m,
4H), 3.35-3.25 (m, 3H), 2.46 (t, J= 6.9 Hz, 2H), 1.70-1.49 (m, 4H), 1.43 (s, 9H).
                                                  154

     WO 2014/099676                                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
Preparation of Compound 49;
A suspension of compound 180 (780 mg, 1.36 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (50 mg) in a mixture of
EtOH (10 mL) and AcOH (2.0 mL) was degassed by bubbling with Argon using syringe for 10
min then stirred at rt under hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for 4 h at room temperature.
The reaction mixture was neutralized with Na 2 CO 3 , filtered through celite and washed with
MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford 49 (625 g, 84%) as a white solid. 1H
NMR (300 MHz, CD 3 0D): 8 7.50-7.46 (m, 2H), 7.32-7.30 (m, 3H), 6.90 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H),
6.66 (d, J = 8.4 Hz, 2H), 5.53 (s, 1H), 4.25-4.20 (m, 1H), 4.04 (br s, 1H), 3.94-3.89 (m, 1H),
3.77-3.43 (m, 4H), 3.35-3.25 (m, 3H), 2.45 (t, J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 1.52-1.47 (m, 4H), 1.42 (s, 9H),
1.27-1.24 (m, 4H).
Preparation of intermediate 54
                                                       Scheme 34
                   0 2 NOH          0OH                                                                           OMs
                           172             ITEA,                               MsCI
                       9-BB-N,
                   PdCl 2(PPh 3 ) 2 0 2 N                                   CH2 CL2 02 N
        181        1N aq NaOH                        182                                          183
                                                               HO    OH               ~7N                NH 3 in MeOH
                                                                 O      OH
                                          sugar                     'O
                                          NNC
                                          I~
                                                                    P                                              H
                        Nz                   C6H13     -     165
         0,N                185                        1.NaCNBH 3, AcOH, MeOH       0 2N          184
                                                       2.               H
                               Pd/C, H2                   H3C             O
                               EtOH       s163
                                                                                                   OH    OH
                                               2NNC6H13                                   sugar
                                                                                                 0     6    OH
          H2 N               54 H -N
                                                                                                    Ph
Preparation of Compound 182;
To a solution of compound 181 (1.60 g, 16.00 mmol) in anhydrous THF (40 mL) was added 9
BBN (0.5 M in THF, 80 mL, 40.0 mmol) under argon. After the reaction mixture was stirred for
2 h at room temperature, compound 172 (3.17 g, 12.8 mmol), Pd(PPh3) 2Cl 2 (561 mg, 0.80
mmol), and 1 N aq NaOH (24 mL) were added at room temperature. The resulting mixture was
stirred for additional 1 h. After solvent removed; the residue was partitioned between EtOAc
(100 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc (2 x
                                                           155

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
100 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and
concentrated under vacuum. The crude product was purified by column chromatography (silica
gel, 4:1 hexanes/EtOAc) to afford compound182 (1.20 g, 34%) as a brown solid. 'H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl 3 ):   8 8.13 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.31 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 2H), 3.64 (t, J= 6.7 Hz, 2H), 2.71
(t, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 1.73-1.46 (m, 4H), 1.43-1.31 (m, 4H).
Preparation of Compound 183
To a solution of compound 182 (1.20 g, 5.38 mmol) in anhydrous CH 2Cl 2 (20 mL) was added
Et3 N (7.32 mL, 53.8 mmol) under argon at 0 C. After the reaction mixture was stirred for 5 min
at same temperature, Mesyl chloride (0.62 mL, 8.07 mmol), was added at 0 C. The resulting
mixture was stirred for additional 2 h at rt. After solvent removed; the residue was partitioned
between CH 2 Cl 2 (50 mL) and water (50 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted
with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 50 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The crude product183 (3.00 g, crude) was directly used
for the next step.
Preparation of Compound 184;
Solution of compound 183 (3.00 g, 5.38 mmol, crude) in 7 N NH 3 in methanol (30.0 mL) was
heated at 60 C in seal tube for 2 h. After solvent removed; the residue was partitioned between
CH 2 Cl 2 (100 mL) and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with
CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 100 mL). The combined organic extracts were washed with brine, dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated     under vacuum. The crude product was purified by column
chromatography (silica gel) to afford compound 184 (390 mg, 33%, over two steps) as a yellow
oil. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 8 8.14 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 2H), 7.42 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 2H), 2.75 (t, J
= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 2.67 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, 2H), 1.72-1.63 (m, 2H), 1.53-1.46 (m, 2H), 1.42-1.35 (m,
4H).
Preparation of Compound 185;
To a solution of compound 184 (620 mg, 2.79 mmol) and triol165 (938 mg, 3.49 mmol) in
MeOH (30 mL) was added AcOH (1.16 mL, 27.8 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred at
room temperature for 10 min. After NaCNBH 3 (526 mg, 8.37 mmol) was added, the solution was
continued to be stirred at room temperature for 16 h. Additional compound 165 (0.3 equiv),
AcOH (10 equiv) and NaCNBH 3 (1.0 equiv) were added over 16 h. Then hexanal 163 (0.96 mL,
                                                156

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
8.37 mmol), AcOH (1.00 mL) and NaCNBH 3 (526 mg, 8.37 mmol) were added. The solution
was further stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removal of solvent, the residue was
neutralized with saturated NaHCO 3 and the residue was partitioned between EtOAc (100 mL)
and water (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with CH 2Cl 2 (2 x 100 mL).
The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under vacuum. The
residue was purified by column chromatography (silica gel, 9:1 CH 2Cl 2/MeOH, 80:18:2
CHCl 3/MeOH/NH 4OH) to afford compound 185 (950 g, 61%) as an off-white oil. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl 3 ):   8 8.02 (d, J = 8.7 Hz, 2H), 7.48-7.42 (m, 3H),7.37-7.34 (m, 2H), 7.31 (d, J = 8.7
Hz, 2H), 5.54 (s, 1H), 4.46-4.40 (m, 1H), 4.30 (dd, J = 11.6, 6.6 Hz, 1H), 4.03 (t, J = 4.0 Hz,
 1H), 3.97 (dd, J = 10.5, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 3.88 (dd, J = 9.4, 4.0 Hz, 1H), 3.65 (t, J = 10.4 Hz, 1H),
3.11-3.00 (m, 4H), 2.69 (t, J= 7.8 Hz, 2H), 2.00 (s, 1H), 1.70-1.55 (m, 6H), 1.37-1.30 (m, 4H),
1.29-1.20 (m, 8H), 0.87 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 3H).
Preparation of Compound 54;
A suspension of compound 185 (950 g, 1.70 mmol) and 10% Pd/C (300 mg) in EtOH (100 mL)
was degassed with Argon for 10 min then stirred under hydrogen atmosphere (balloon, latm) for
3 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered through celite and washed with
MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuum to afford 54 (790 mg, 88%) as yellow oil. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 8 7.51-7.44 (m, 2H), 7.35-7.29 (m, 3H), 6.90 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H),
6.65 (d, J = 8.5 Hz, 2H), 5.54 (s, 1H), 4.24 (dd, J = 10.8, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 4.08-4.02 (m, 1H), 4.00
3.92 (m, 1H), 3.91 (dd, J= 5.6, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 3.78 (dd, J= 9.6, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 3.61 (t, J= 10.9 Hz,
 1H), 3.01 (dd, J= 13.7, 5.4 Hz, 1H), 2.91 (dd, J= 12.1, 8.1 Hz, 1H), 2.82-2.71 (m, 4H), 2.45 (t,
J= 7.5 Hz, 2H), 1.59-1.42 (m, 6H), 1.37-1.13 (m, 10H), 0.89 (t, J= 7.1 Hz, 3H).
         Several assays may be used to characterize the compounds of the present invention.
Representative assays are discussed below.
        In Vitro Measure of Sodium Channel Blocking Activity and Reversibility
         One assay used to assess mechanism of action and/or potency of the compounds of the
present invention involves the determination of lumenal drug inhibition of airway epithelial
sodium currents measured under short circuit current (Isc) using airway epithelial monolayers
mounted in Ussing chambers. Cells obtained from freshly excised human, dog, sheep or rodent
airways are seeded onto porous 0.4 micron Snapwellm Inserts (CoStar), cultured at air-liquid
interface (ALI) conditions in hormonally defined media, and assayed for sodium transport
                                                 157

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
activity (Isc) while bathed in Krebs Bicarbonate Ringer (KBR) in Using chambers. All test drug
additions are to the lumenal bath with half-log dose addition protocols (from 1 x 10-" M to 3 x
10-5 M), and the cumulative change in Isc (inhibition) recorded. All drugs are prepared in
dimethyl sulfoxide as stock solutions at a concentration of 1 x 10-2 M and stored at -20' C. Eight
preparations are typically run in parallel; two preparations per run incorporate amiloride and/or
benzamil as positive controls. After the maximal concentration (5 x 10-5 M) is administered, the
lumenal bath is exchanged three times with fresh drug-free KBR solution, and the resultant Isc
measured after each wash for approximately 5 minutes in duration. Reversibility is defined as
the percent return to the baseline value for sodium current after the third wash. All data from the
voltage clamps are collected via a computer interface and analyzed off-line.
         Dose-effect relationships for all compounds are considered and analyzed by the Prism 3.0
program. IC50 values, maximal effective concentrations, and reversibility are calculated and
compared to amiloride and benzamil as positive controls. The potency of the sodium channel
blocking activity of representative compounds relative to amiloride in freshly excised cell from
canine airways is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Inhibition of Short-Circuit Current by Compound (la) in canine bronchial epithelial
cells (IC50 nM)
                              Compound                Potency of Sodium
                              Number                  Channel Blockade
                                                    IC50 nM
                              Amiloride             773
                              23                    20.7
                              38                    25.4
                              28                    7.4
                              33                    21.8
                              16                    79.6
                                                 158

     WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
                              103                     17.9
                              99                      7.6
                              94                      21.2
                              80                      19.4
                              135                     5.2
                              131                     6.0
                              123                     2.3
                              127                     8.6
                              139                     73.7
                              43                      50.1
                              53                      15.5
                              58                      10.6
                              48                      47
Assay 2. Mucociliary Clearance (MCC) Studies in Sheep
        The animal model that has been used most often to measure changes in MCC is the sheep
model. The effect of compounds for enhancing mucociliary clearance (MCC) can be measured
using an in vivo model described by Sabater et al., Journal of Applied Physiology, 1999, pp.
2191-2196, incorporated herein by reference.
In these studies, adult sheep were restrained and nasally intubated with an endotracheal tube.
Aerosolized test articles were administered over 10-15 minutes to sheep. Radiolabeled    99mTc
sulfur colloid (TSC, 3.1 mg/mL; containing approximately 20 mCi) was then administered at a
specified time four or eight hours after test article. The radiolabeled aerosol was administered
through the endotracheal tube for about 5 minutes. The sheep were then extubated, and total
radioactive counts in the lung were measured every 5 minutes for a 1-hour observation period.
The rate of radiolabel clearance from the lung is representative of the MCC rate in the animal.
                                                   159

     WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
The advantage of this system is that it closely simulates the human lung environment. The model
also allows for the collection of simultaneous PK/PD information through plasma and urine
sampling over the test period. There are also several techniques to measure the drug
concentrations on the airway surface during the MCC measurements. These include the
collection of exhaled breath condensates or a filter paper method to obtain ASL via
bronchoscopy.
The ovine model described above was used to evaluate the in vivo effects (efficacy/durability) of
aerosol-delivered test agent on MCC. Treatments consisting of either 4 mL of test agent or test
agent in combination with HS were tested. To determine if combining HS with test agent
enhanced MCC, HS was administered immediately following test agent administration. Test
solutions were aerosolized using a Raindrop nebulizer at a flowrate of eight liters per minute and
connected to a dosimetry system consisting of a solenoid valve and a source of compressed air
(20 psi). The deposited dose of drug in sheep lungs after an aerosol administration using the
Raindrop nebulizer is estimated to be 8-15 % of the dose. Using a Raindrop nebulizer,
radiolabeled TSC was administered over approximately 3 minutes either 4 or 8 hours after drug
treatment to evaluate efficacy/durability. Radioactive counts were measured in a central region
in the right lung at 5 min intervals for one hour with a gamma camera. Three methods of
analysis were utilized, 1) initial rate of clearance (slope) over the first 30 min fitted using linear
regression 2) area under the curve for % clearance over time over one hour, and 3) the maximum
clearance obtained in one hour.
The effect of Compound 33 at 0.24 nmol/kg (3pM) was tested and compared to vehicle (4 mL
sterile H 2 0) on sheep MCC four hour post-dosing (Figure 1). The analyses of effects are shown
in Table A. Compound 33 enhanced MCC compared to vehicle control.
   Table A. MCC in Sheep at 4h Post-dose of Compound 33 or Vehicle
Compound 33 Dose            Initial Slope       AUC (% Cl - h)             Maximum
                              (4.0-4.5h)                                    Clearance
0.24 nmol/kg (3pM)             37.5* (4)            17.4* (4)               30.0* (4)
Vehicle ( H2 0) 4 mL         17.26.8 (8)          7.31.5 (8)             12.22.9 (8)
Tables B and C along with Figures 2 and 3 demonstrate that other compounds of this
invention similarly enhance MCC compared to vehicle (see e.g., Compounds 123 and 48)
                                                   160

     WO 2014/099676                                                            PCT/US2013/075108
   Table B. MCC in Sheep at 4h Post-dose of Compound 123 or Vehicle
Compound 123              Initial Slope     AUC (% Cl - h)           Maximum
Dose                        (4.0-4.5h)                                Clearance
0.24 nmollkg (3pM)           29.2* (2)           14.4* (2)            22.8* (2)
Vehicle ( H2 0) 4          17.2+6.8 (8)        7.31.5 (8)           12.22.9 (8)
mL
   Table C. MCC in Sheep at 4h Post-dose of Compound 48 or Vehicle
Compound 48 Dose          Initial Slope     AUC (% Cl - h)           Maximum
                            (4.0-4.5h)                                Clearance
0.24 nmollkg (3pM)           29.8* (2)           15.4* (2)            26.7* (2)
Vehicle ( H2 0) 4          17.2+6.8 (8)        7.31.5 (8)           12.22.9 (8)
mL
To determine whether compounds of this invention have enhace duration of action, they were
tested at 8 hours post dose. Tables D and E along with Figures 4 and 5 clearly show enhanced
duration action of MCC vs. vehicle for Compounds 33 and 152.
   Table D . MCC in Sheep at 8h Post-dose of Compound 33 or Vehicle
Compound 33 Dose          Initial Slope     AUC (% Cl - h)           Maximum
                            (8.0-8.5h)                                Clearance
0.24 nmollkg (3pM)           25.8* (4)           11.7* (4)            21.4* (4)
Vehicle ( H2 0) 4          17.2+6.8 (8)        7.31.5 (8)           12.22.9 (8)
mL
   Table E. MCC in Sheep at 8h Post-dose of Compound 152 or Vehicle
Compound 152              Initial Slope     AUC (% Cl - h)           Maximum
Dose                        (8.0-8.5h)                                Clearance
0.24 nmollkg (3pM)           37.5* (4)           17.4* (4)            30.0* (4)
Vehicle ( H2 0) 4          17.2+6.8 (8)        7.31.5 (8)           12.22.9 (8)
mL
                                                161

      WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
    To determine whether HS increases the MCC effect of Compound 33, 7% HS was dosed
immediately following 0.24 nmol/kg of Compound 33 and MCC was assessed eight hours after
the combined dosing (Figure 6). HS increased the effect of Compound 33 on MCC as shown in
Figure 6.
Assay 3. Airway Surface Liquid Drug (ASL) Clearance and Metabolism by Human Airway
Epithelium
The disappearance of 33 from the apical surface and airway epithelial metabolism were
assessed in human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells (Table 3). In these experiments 25 pL of a
25 pM solution of ENaC blocker was added to the apical surface of HBE cells grown at an
air/liquid interface, and the drug and metabolite concentration in the apical and basolateral
compartment was measured over 2 h by UPLC.
Table G. Apical Disappearance and Metabolism of Compound 33
Compound          % of Initial Drug   % of Apical       % of Initial   % on Basolateral
                   Mass on Apical       Mass as       Apical Mass            Side as
                  Side (Parent and    Metabolites           on          Metabolites (2h)
                   metabolite, 2h)        (2h)          Basolateral
                                                         Side (2h)
33                    44.818%            4%            1.10.45%              32%
Values represent the mean  SD
Comparative Examples
The present compounds of formula (1)are more potent and/or absorbed less rapidly from
mucosal surfaces, especially airway surfaces, compared to known sodium channel blockers,
such as amiloride and third generation compounds such as Comparative Example 1 described
below. Therefore, the compounds of formula (1)have a longer half-life on mucosal surfaces
compared to these know compounds as evidenced by the data shown in Table G. The
disappearance of Compound 33 from the apical surface and airway epithelial metabolism were
assessed in HBE and compared to Comparative Example 1 (Table H). In these experiments 25
pL of a 25 pM solution of ENaC blocker was added to the apical surface of HBE cells grown at
an air/liquid interface, and the drug concentration in the apical and basolateral compartment was
measured over 2 h by UPLC. After 2 h incubation of the compounds of this present invention
on the apical surface (37 OC), Compound 33 was mostly unmetabolized on the apical side.
Conversely, most of Comparative Example 1 was eliminated from the apical side with 83%
                                                 162

    WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
metabolized to the less active carboxylic acid, (S)-2-amino-3-(4-(4-(3-(3,5-diamino-6
chloropyrazine-2-carbonyl)guanidino)butyl) phenoxy)propanoic acid, structure below.
                                                                        NH 2
                                         0    NH0                              OH
                   Cl     N                                                0
                                    H      H
                 H2N      N      NH 2
Table H. Apical Disappearance and Metabolism of Compound 33 vs. Comparative
Example 1 in HBE
Compound       % of Initial Drug      % of Apical     % of Initial     % on Basolateral
                Mass on Apical          Mass as      Apical Mass             Side as
               Side (Parent and       Metabolites            on        Metabolites (2h)
                metabolite, 2h)           (2h)        Basolateral
                                                       Side (2h)
33                 44.818%               4%           1.10.45%               32%
Comparative        41.67.6%          83.03.5%          8.30.2           94.71.0%
Example 1         (8% Parent)                         (1% Parent)
Values represent the mean  SD
       Comparative Example 1 is claimed, described or within the disclosures of WO
2003/070182 (U. S. Patent Nos. 6,858,615; 7,186,833; 7,189,719; 7,192,960; and 7,332,496),
as sodium channel blockers having useful medicinal properties and can be prepared by
methods described therein and others known in the art.
                  Comparative Example 1.
                                                                     NH2
                                  0     NH                           -    NH
                                                                        0 H2
                                                         -~0,,,
                       Cl    N
                                      H    H
                     H2N     N    NH 2
                      (S)-3,5-diamino-6-chloro-N-(N-(4-(4-(2,3-diamino-3
               oxopropoxy)phenyl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)pyrazine-2-carboxamide
       The compound of Comparative Example 1 can be seen on page 15 of US 2005/0080093
and as Compound 2 on page 90 of WO 2008/031048, and as Compound 2 on pages 42-43 of
WO 2008/031028. In order to have useful activity in treating Cystic Fibrosis and C.O.P.D a
                                                163

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
compound must have properties that will cause enhancement of mucociliary clearance (MCC) at
doses that do not elevate plasma potassium which will eventually lead to hyperkalemia, a
serious and dangerous condition, upon multiple dosing.        It must therefore be avoided in this
class of compounds, which are known to elevate plasma potassium if they are significantly
excreted by the kidney. In order to evaluate this potential, it is beneficial to have MCC activity in
vivo and not cause elevation of plasma potassium at the useful dose. One model to assess this
is the sheep MCC model described below.
           As can be seen from the Table I and Figure 7 the ED50 for Comparative Example 1
in the sheep MCC model is approximately 240 nmol/kg (3mM) using three different measures
(slope, AUC and Maximum Clearance). At this dose, which would be a clinically active dose,
Comparative Example 1 causes a rise in plasma potassium (Figure 8) which on repeat dosing
will lead to hyperkalemia. Thus, Comparative Example I is unacceptable for human use while
Compound (la) produces a safe and effective MCC with a benefit to risk ratio greater than 1000
in this model.
 Table 1.MCC in Sheep at 4h Post-dose of vehicle, Comparative Example 1 or Compound
33
            Dose              Initial Slope      AUC (% Cl x h)           Maximum Clearance
                                (4.0-4.5h)
Comparative Example 1        32.2+7.3* (6)        14.1+2.2* (6)                22.9+2.1* (6)
240nmol/kg (3mM)
Comparative Example 1         14.5+1.3 (3)         6.9+1.0 (3)                  14.60.9 (3)
24 nmol/kg (300 pM)
Compound 33                      37.5* (4)          17.4* (4)                    30.0* (4)
0.240 nmol/kg (30 pM)
Vehicle H2 0 (4 mL)           17.2+6.8 (8)         7.3+1.5 (8)                  12.22.9 (8)
         Figure I graphs the percentage mucus clearance over time by Compound 33 and
Comparative Example 1, as described in the MCC model above. An even greater percentage
mucus clearance was provided by Compound 33 at a 1000-fold lower dose than seen with
Comparative Example 1. Thus, Compound 33 provided a maximal effect in a clinically relevant
dose range free of potassium elevations.
                                               164

    WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
        Figure 10 illustrates the significant increase in plasma potassium levels at an efficacious
dose seen in the plasma of the sheep receiving Comparative Example 1 in the MCC study.
Compound 33 is more than 1000 times more potent in sheep MCC than Comparative Example
1 with no elevation of Plasma K at doses as high as 24nmol/kg (1000 times the ED50 dose),
whereas Comparative Example 1 has elevations of plasma K at the approximate ED50 dose of
3mM (Figures 7 and 8).       This again demonstrates the unique and unexpected potency and
safety advantage of Compound 33 as seen in Table J with a Therapeutic Index of more than
1,000 times greater renal safety than Comparative Example 1.
Table J. Therapeutic Ratio (Benefit/Risk)
                MCC                       Top Dose in            Therapeutic
                Highest                   Sheep with no          Ratio
                Submaximal Dose           Elevation of Plasma
                                          Potassium
Comparative      240 nmol/kg (3mM)         24nmol/kg (300pM)          0.1
Example 1
33              <0.24nmol/kg (3 pM)        24nmol/kg (300pM)         >100
Ratio                    >1,000                      1              >1,000
        Other compounds of this invention have similar safety and efficacy advantages over
know compounds as exemplified in Figures 11, 12, 13 and 14.
                                                  165

    WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
CLAIMS
That Which Is Claimed Is:
1.       A compound of the formula:
R21   --       (CH2)      1      O
    NRN
                              N           Ar                    NHO
                                                                           C0
                                    N,                                 N  CI
                                 3     R4                     H  H     j
                                                                  H2 N N   NH 2
wherein:
         Ar is selected from:
                                                         and-                [
         n is an integer selected from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
         R1 is selected from hydrogen, Cl-Cs alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
         R2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
         R3 and R4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C,-C3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
2.       A compound of Claim 1 having the formula:
                                                   166

    WO 2014/099676                                                        PCT/US2013/075108
                      HO
                   HO
                           OH
               HO
                         OH
                       N         -"      0
                           H                             N      NH
                              OH            NH2        -2                N   CI
                      HO                                      N N
                                OH                            H   HI
                        HO                                        H2N    NNH    2
          HO
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
3.      A compound of Claim 1 which is:
      HO
       R (R)
          (R)    OH
HO,, tR),,
       (S) '
          HO,%)~OH           H                                  N    C
              (R)                  NH
                  (R)  OHH                                  H
                                       HI)HN                    N   NH 2
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
wherein:
         n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
                                                   167

    WO 2014/099676                                                              PCT/US2013/075108
         R1 is selected from hydrogen, C1-Cs alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
         R2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
         R3 and R4 are each, independently, hydrogen or 01-C3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
5.      A compound of Claim 4 selected from the group of:
H3C        HN
                             0
      CH 3
                          N                             NHO
                          H   -      OH
                                 SSNH2               N UN         N    CI
                                                     H    H
                                                           HN 2   N    NH 2 .
      HO
          (R)  O
     HR)       OH
HO,,,     "OH
       N                        0                                   N
       H                           S
                            N                            NHO0
                            H            II
                                  -(NH 2               N N      ~   N     Cl
                                                       H     HI
                                                             H2N    N    NH 2 ;
      HO
   HO,,,~O
    HO ()     OH
      (R)
                            N                             N0
                            H      S                       H
                                   NH 2                N N~         N     Cl
                                                       H     HI
                 CH 3                                        H2 N   N    NH 2 .
                                                168

     WO 2014/099676                                                                   PCT/US2013/075108
OH       OH       OH
                          H
       '(&
        (R)      (S)I
                          N-
   OH OH                                   N,        (S
                                                   N  -NHO0
                                                   H
                                                     NH 2                  N     N         NXCl
                                                                           H      H
                                                                                  H 2N     N    NH 2 ;
        CH 3
H 3C'
                                                                   NH
                                          H NH 2                N    N        NXCl
                                                                H     H
                                                                      H2 N    N      NH 2
OH       OH       OH
      -(R)
                 (S)N
   OH OH                                   'N(S
                                                   N  -       .NHO0                              H
                                                   H
                                    CH3              NH 2                   NN             NNCl
                                                                                  H2 N     N INH   2.
  OH
           OH
   (R)
HO"'     (R)  ,OH
             (S)
   HO"
                                NN                                                        C
 HO,               OH                                        N                             Cl
             OH                                                            HN       N     NH2; and
        HO
                    OH
HO''           (R)OH
           N
                  ,,XOH        N. 0 0~(R        'NNH              0
                                      NH 2                  N~          N    Cl
                  HO"'HH
                      (R)   OH                               H       I
             HO                                                 H N     N    NH 2
                                                     169

       WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
6.         A compound of Claim 1 of Formula (Ill):
R2,
                  (CH2)n  /
                                 N O   0~
      R1                         N
                                     R3'N                          NH O
                                                                N    N        N    CI
                                                                H    H
                                                                     H2 N     N    NH2
wherein:
            n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
            R1 is selected from hydrogen, Cl-Cs alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
            R2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
            R3 and R4 are each, independently, hydrogen or C1-C3 alkyl;
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
7.         A compound of Claim 6 selected from:
H3C          HNN
         CH 3                       (S                            N   0
                                            NH 2 N              N H
                                                               HH               NH2 ;
                                                               H2N               HO.
           OH- H1             H2            OI
         R )i   (S )                                           HH               H
  (R )
          R(R)-       N          -~         0
                      H
OHOCHOCH                                  N    SNHO0
                                          H                                  I
                                               NH 2                       N
                                                                          N 11 N        NXCI
                                                                          H     H
                                                                                H2N     N   NH 2 .
                                                      170

    WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
      HO
   HO,,     (R)  OH
HO,,            H
      (S)"/OH
        N                -~     0
                             N                                   NH O
                             H                                   I
                                  NH 2                  ~K                   NN   Cl
                                                               H     H
                    CH 3                                             H2 N    N    NH2; and
      HO
   HO,,, (R)
           R)    OH
HO,, (R)
      (S)       U
        N                       0                                                  l
          (S)N R              N                                  NH O
            HO .(),,OH       H
                                HR) Ns
                                        IN2                  N     N      N
                                                                              NCL
                  (R) OH                                     H     H
          HO                                                         H
                                                                     2 N   N      NH 2.
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
wherein:
          n is an integer selected from 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6;
          R1 is selected from hydrogen, C,-Cs alkyl, and a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having
from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
          R2 is hydrogen or a polyhydroxylated alkyl group having from 3 to 8 carbon atoms;
          R3 and R4 are each, independently, hydrogen or 01-03 alkyl;
                                                    171

     WO 2014/099676                                                                           PCT/US2013/075108
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
9.       A compound of Claim 8 selected from:
H3CQ N                  -*'-        0
      CH                         N    (S                         NH    O
                                 H
                                      HNH 2                    N    N       N     Cl
                                                               H     H
                                                                     H2 N   N     NH2 .
    OH    OH
   (R)._(R)            N                        0
OH OH OH                                     N    (S       N                NHO0
           O                                         N                    N   H   O      N      C1
                                                     H
                                                                          H    HH           I      H
                                                                                H2N      N      NH2 .
      HO
   HO,,  (R)
          (R) O
HO,,(R) 'OH
           (   (S))S)O
                                   N                                NH O
                                      H NH 2                     N'   N k     NXCI
                                                                 H     H
                                                                            I
                     CH 3                                              H2N    N      NH 2 ;
    OH    OH
       R     S
   (R).(R)             N                        0
OH    OH      OH           ,%OH               N     .S
                              (S)N                                          NHO0
                                                   .,,OIH2
                                  0H         H                                           N      C
                                         R~
                    HO" (R)         OH            NN
                        HO                                                      H2N      N      NH 2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                           172

     WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
10.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
compound of Claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and
a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
11.     The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 10 wherein the compound 3,5-diamino-N-(N
(4-(4-((S)-2-amino-3-(4-(3-(bis((2S,3R,4R,5R)-2,3,4,5,6-pentahydroxyhexyl)amino)propyl)
phenylamino)-3-oxopropyl)naphthalen-1 -yl)butyl)carbamimidoyl)-6-chloropyrazine-2
carboxamide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
12.     The composition according to either of Claims 10 or 11, wherein said composition is
suitable for inhalation.
13.     The composition according to either of Claims 10, 11, or 12, wherein said composition is
a solution for aerosolization and administration by nebulizer.
14.     The composition according to either of Claims 10, 11, or 12, wherein said composition is
suitable for administration by metered dose inhaler.
15.     The composition according to either of Claims 10, 11, or 12, wherein said composition is
a dry powder suitable for administration by dry powder inhaler.
16.     The composition according to either of Claims 10, 11, or 12 further comprising a
pharmaceutically effective amount of a therapeutically active agent selected from anti
inflammatory agents, anticholinergic agents, p-agonists, CFTR modulators, P2Y2 receptor
agonists, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor agonists, kinase inhibitors, antiinfective
agents and antihistamines.
17.     A method comprising administering to a human, an effective amount of a compound
according to any of Claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 173

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
18.     A method for blocking sodium channels in a human comprising administering to said
human an effective amount of a compound according to any of Claims 1-9, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
19.     A method for promoting hydration of mucosal surfaces or restoring mucosal defense in a
human comprising administering to said human an effective amount of a compound according to
any of Claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
20.     A method for treating a disease selected from the group of reversible or irreversible
airway obstruction, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, bronchiectasis
(including bronchiectasis due to conditions other than cystic fibrosis), acute bronchitis, chronic
bronchitis, post-viral cough, cystic fibrosis, emphysema, pneumonia, panbronchiolitis,
transplant-associate bronchiolitis, and ventilator-associated tracheobronchitis or preventing
ventilator-associated pneumonia in a human in need thereof, said method comprising
administering to said human an effective amount of a compound according to any of Claims 1-9,
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
21.     A method for treating chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in a human in need
thereof, said method comprising administering to said human an effective amount of a
compound according to any of Claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
22.     A method for treating cystic fibrosis in a human in need thereof, said method comprising
administering to said human an effective amount of a compound according to any of Claims 1-9,
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
23.     A method for treating dry mouth (xerostomia), dry skin, vaginal dryness, sinusitis,
rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration, including nasal dehydration brought on by administering dry
oxygen, dry eye or Sjogren's disease, promoting ocular or corneal hydration, treating distal
intestinal obstruction syndrome, treating otitis media, primary ciliary diskinesia, distal intestinal
obstruction syndrome, esophagitis, constipation, or chronic diverticulitis in a human in need
                                                  174

     WO 2014/099676                                                               PCT/US2013/075108
thereof, said method comprising administering to said human an effective amount of a
compound according to any of Claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
24.      A compound according to any of claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof for use as a medicament.
25.      A compound according to any of claims 1-9 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
for use in treating a disease associated with reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to
conditions other than cystic fibrosis), acute bronchitis, chronic bronchitis, post-viral cough, cystic
fibrosis, emphysema, pneumonia, panbronchiolitis, transplant-associate bronchiolitis, and
ventilator-associated tracheobronchitis or preventing ventilator-associated pneumonia in a
human in need thereof.
26.      A compound according to any of claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, for use in treating dry mouth (xerostomia), dry skin, vaginal dryness, sinusitis,
rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration, including nasal dehydration brought on by administering dry
oxygen, dry eye or Sjogren's disease, promoting ocular or corneal hydration, treating distal
intestinal obstruction syndrome, treating otitis media, primary ciliary diskinesia, distal intestinal
obstruction syndrome, esophagitis, constipation, or chronic diverticulitis in a human in need
thereof.
27.      Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease associated with
reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to conditions other than cystic fibrosis),
acute bronchitis, chronic bronchitis, post-viral cough, cystic fibrosis, emphysema, pneumonia,
panbronchiolitis, transplant-associate bronchiolitis, and ventilator-associated tracheobronchitis
or preventing ventilator-associated pneumonia.
                                                  175

     WO 2014/099676                                                                 PCT/US2013/075108
28.      Use of a compound according to any one of claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, for the manufacture of a medicament for treating dry mouth (xerostomia), dry skin,
vaginal dryness, sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration, including nasal dehydration
brought on by administering dry oxygen, dry eye or Sjogren's disease, promoting ocular or
corneal hydration, treating distal intestinal obstruction syndrome, treating otitis media, primary
ciliary diskinesia, distal intestinal obstruction syndrome, esophagitis, constipation, or chronic
diverticulitis
29.      A composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1-9, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the preparation of a medicament for treating
a disease associated with reversible or irreversible airway obstruction, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, bronchiectasis (including bronchiectasis due to conditions
other than cystic fibrosis), acute bronchitis, chronic bronchitis, post-viral cough, cystic fibrosis,
emphysema, pneumonia, panbronchiolitis, transplant-associate bronchiolitis, and ventilator
associated tracheobronchitis or preventing ventilator-associated pneumonia.
30.      A composition comprising a compound according to any one of claims 1-9, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in the preparation of a medicament for treating
dry mouth (xerostomia), dry skin, vaginal dryness, sinusitis, rhinosinusitis, or nasal dehydration,
including nasal dehydration brought on by administering dry oxygen, dry eye or Sjogren's
disease, promoting ocular or corneal hydration, treating distal intestinal obstruction syndrome,
treating otitis media, primary ciliary diskinesia, distal intestinal obstruction syndrome,
esophagitis, constipation, or chronic diverticulitis.
31.      A method for preventing, mitigating, and/or treating deterministic health effects to the
respiratory tract and/or other bodily organs caused by respirable aerosols containing
radionuclides in a human in need thereof , said method comprising administering to said human
an effective amount of a compound according to any of Claims 1-9, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
                                                    176

    WO 2014/099676                                                             PCT/US2013/075108
32.   A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of a
compound of Claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or 9, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and
an osmolyte.
33.   The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 32 wherein the osmolyte is hypertonic saline.
34.   The pharmaceutical composition of Claim 32 wherein the osmolyte is mannitol.
                                                 177

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
