5496A-AU-D2
                                       Abstract
The present invention relates to method for reformulating a frozen, food product to
minimize growth of ice crystals.
                                          11

WO 2013/059023                       PCT/US2012/059338
                identify Frozen Food
                   Product with
               tendency to form ce
                       crystals
                        (110)
                       Produce
                   Reformulated
                   Product Using
                M croalgal Biomass
                         (120)
                        Fig. 1

5496A-AU-D2
                      Crystallization Resistant Frozen Food Products
Technical Field
The present invention relates to methods for reformulating a frozen food product to
minimize growth of ice crystals.
Background
Large ice crystals are often undesirable in frozen foods and can determine the end
point of product shelf-life. Growth of ice crystals during production or storage can
degrade the mouthfeel of the product. Such concerns are particularly pointed in the
production and storage of frozen dessert products such as ice cream, ice milk, frozen
yogurt, sherbet, frozen, custard, or gelato, and highly whipped desserts such as
mousse. Ice crystals growth is exacerbated by a high water content of the food, as may
be found in ice milk or low-fat ice cream. The size of ice crystals is known to increase
over time in frozen storage. The problem is exacerbated when the food is subjected to
temperature fluctuations or freeze -thaw cycles. Most commonly, this will occur due
to the use of a frost-free freezer or when a storage freezer is repeatedly opened; e.g,
by consumers repeatedly entering a freezer display case in a grocery store.
Common strategies employed to combat the formation and growth of ice crystals
include rapid freezing, controlled frozen storage, better packaging, and the addition of
food additives including stabilizers and emulsifiers. Despite these measures, ice
crystal formation and growth has remained a major problem in terms of both
consumer satisfaction and the economic impact of unusable food products.
Summary
According to a first embodiment of the invention there is described a frozen food
product comprising microalgal biomass and ice crystals, wherein the ice crystals have
a median size of 25 pm or less, the frozen food product produced by a method
comprising:
        (a)   identifying a candidate frozen food product;
        (b)   adding 2% to 8% microalgal biomass;
        (c)   testing the resulting product for ice crystal growth or measuring the
        percent change in average ice crystal size to determine an amount of
                                              1

5496A-AU-D2
        microalgal biomass sufficient to inhibit the formation or growth of ice crystals;
        and
        (d) producing a reformulated frozen food product comprising said
        amount of microalgal biomass sufficient to inhibit the formation or growth
        of ice crystals therein.
The preferred embodiments of the present invention feature a method for
reformulating frozen food product, such as a frozen dessert product, in a manner that
reduces the formation or growth of large ice crystals. The method includes identifying
a candidate frozen food product having a tendency to form large ice crystals and
producing a reformulated frozen food product that includes an amount of microalgal
biomass that is sufficient to inhibit the formation or growth of ice crystals.
In various preferred embodiments, the frozen food product may be a frozen dessert
such as an ice cream, low-fat ice cream, light ice cream, ice milk, frozen yogurt,
sherbet, frozen custard, gelato, frozen mousse, or non-dairy ice cream substitute.
Preferably, the microalgal biomass may be added in the form of a microalgal flour.
The microalgal flour may have an average panicle size of from about 2 to 100
micrometers. The reformulated frozen food product may include 2 to 8% algal
biomass, by weight.
Preferably, the microalgal biomass may be derived from cells of a species of
Chlorella or Prototheca: for example, Chlorellaprotothecoides or Prototheca
morifirmis.
In a preferred embodiment, the microalgal biomass may be produced by culturing
microalgae in the dark. The culturing may include adding a fixed carbon source.
In a preferred embodiment, the rate of ice crystal growth as measured by the percent
change in average ice crystal size is reduced by at least 5% in the reformulated frozen
food product as compared to the candidate frozen food product. The rate of ice crystal
growth may be measured by cycling the temperature of the product between - 10'F
and 40'F.
                                             2

5496A-AU-D2
Brief Description of the Drawings
The foregoing features of the invention will be more readily understood by reference
to the following detailed description, taken with reference to the accompanying
drawing, in which:
         Fig. 1 shows a flow diagram depicting a method of producing a reformulated
frozen food product in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present
invention.
Detailed Description of Embodiments of the Invention
Definitions
"Biomass" shall mean a material derived from a living organism.
"Frozen food" shall mean a food normally stored below the freezing point of water in
the food, thus making it susceptible to loss in value due to ice crystal growth.
A "frozen dessert" shall mean a frozen food consumed as a dessert, whether naturally
or artificially sweetened.
In connection with culturing microalgae "in the dark" shall mean that the microalgae
are grown under substantially heterotrophic conditions as opposed to phototrophic
conditions, for example, the microalgae may be shielded from light through
containment in an opaque fermentation vessel.
A "microalgal flour" shall mean edible, microalgae biomass formulated into a powder
consisting of particles that are small enough to allow the powder to be mixed into a
food. Although the microalgal flour may retain some water, it is a dry ingredient, as
opposed to a suspension of microalgal cells.
"Overrun" is a measure of the air incorporated into a frozen dessert. Overrun is
measured as follows: % Overrun     = ((Final volume of the ice cream - Volume of the
ice cream mix used)/ Volume of the ice cream mix used) x 100.
Preferred embodiments of the present invention feature a method for reformulating a
frozen food product, such as a frozen dessert product, in a manner that reduces the
                                             3

5496A-AU-D2
formation or growth of large ice crystals, including those large enough to be noticed
by an ordinary consumer, for example, via perception by mouthfeel.
The method includes identifying a candidate frozen food product having a tendency to
form large ice crystals and producing a reformulated frozen food product that includes
an amount of microalgal biomass that is sufficient to inhibit the formation or growth
of ice crystals.
Fig. 1 shows a method for reformulating a frozen food product according to a
preferred embodiment. First a frozen food product with a tendency to form ice
crystals is identified (step 110). For example, the candidate (and reformulated ) food
product may be a frozen dessert such as an ice cream, low-fat ice cream, ice milk,
frozen yogurt, sherbet, frozen custard, gelato, or non-dairy ice cream substitute. In
the preferred embodiment, the frozen food product is one regulated by 21 CFR § 135.
The product may also be a more complex product that includes a frozen dessert
product; e.g., an ice cream cake, ice cream sandwich, ice cream novelty, or
corresponding products made with ice cream substitutes or other frozen dessert
products.
The product is then reformulated using microalgal biomass (step 120). The microalgal
biomass may be in the form of a microalgal flour. The microalgal flour may be made
from microalgal biomass using a spray drying process. See, for example, Published
U.S. Patent Application 2010/0303989. The flour may comprise intact (unlysed) cells,
lysed cells, or a combination thereof (e.g., 10% to 90% intact cells, or preferably 20%
to 80% intact cells). The particles that make up the microalgal flour may have a
variety of size distributions, but preferably the particles are sized to allow for easy
handling of the particles. For example, it may be desirable to have a flowable powder
for ease of measurement dispensing, and automation of food processing.         In a specific
preferred embodiment, the average particle size of the particles is between 2 and 100
micrometers. In a preferred embodiment, the reformulated frozen food product may
include 2% to 8% of the microalgal biomass by weight. In preferred embodiments
the product includes 3% to 7% or 4% to 6% biomass, by weight.
                                             4

5496A-AU-D2
The microalgal biomass may be derived from cells of a species of Chlorella or
Prototheca:for example, Chlorellaprotothecoides or Protothecamorifirmis.
The microalgal biomass may be produced by culturing microalgae in the dark.
Culturing in the dark may produce a better tasting microalgae. The culturing may
include adding a fixed carbon source, such as glucose or sucrose. The fixed carbon
source may also include glucose and/or fructose supplemented with glycerol. When
sucrose is used as a carbon source, a sucrose invertase may be included.
An ice crystal size of 10 micrometers starts to degrade product quality and ice crystals
sizes of 25 micrometers represent an unacceptable product. In preferred embodiments
of the invention, the mean or median ice crystal size in the frozen dessert product is
less than 25 micrometers or less than 10 micrometers when the product is subjected to
the temperature cycling treatment of Example 1. In a preferred embodiment, the rate
of ice crystal growth as measured by the percent change in average ice crystal size, as
measured by microscopy, is inhibited when compared against a control, (non-algal
containing) frozen dessert. The rate of crystal growth may be reduced by at least 5%
in the reformulated frozen food product as compared to the candidate frozen food
product. The rate of ice crystal growth may be measured under the temperature
cycling conditions of Example 1. The ice crystal size may be measured by microscopy
with computer image analysis to assign a circle equivalent diameter (the diameter of
the circle that would have the equivalent area as the object when represented as a 2
dimensional image). In a related preferred embodiment, the mean circle equivalent
diameter of the ice crystals is less than 25 microns after the temperature cycling
regime of Example 1.
Frozen dessert ice crystals are measured using a microscope inside a freezer box at
10'F. Thin slices of frozen product are placed on a microscope slide and ice crystal
size can be measured using computer image analysis.
In a preferred embodiment, two persons or fewer on a tasting panel of 10 people can
detect an increase in ice crystals (i.e., an increased perception of ice crystals) in the
reformulated product subjected to the freeze thaw cycles of Example 1, as compared
to a control product stored at -20'C for an equal time . In a preferred embodiment,
                                               5

5496A-AU-D2
descriptive analysis sensory panel or an ice cream expert panel cannot detect an
increased perception of ice crystals in the reformulated product subject to the freeze
thaw cycling of Example 1, as compared to a control product stored at -20'C for an
equal time.
In preferred embodiments, the frozen dessert product with microalgae exhibits high
over-run and excellent ice crystal stability (as discussed above). In preferred
embodiments, the overrun is 50%-75%, 75%-100%, 100%-125%, 125%- 150%,
150%-175%, 175 %-200%, or 200%-225%. In preferred embodiments, the shrinkage
of the ice cream (i.e., loss of over-run) is less than 10%, 5%, or 2% by volume when
subjected to the temperature cycling of Example 1.
Example 1. Frozen stability testing method.
1.       1 pint of frozen products - test and control, are placed into a cycling or non
cycling freezer.
2.       The initial temperature and holding temperature are set to - 100F.
3.       The freezer defrost cycle is set to defrost 3 times per day for 21 days with the
following settings:
         * freezer cycle - 10% to 40%.
         * 15 minute hold time at each temperature
         * Ramp rate 5 minutes
Example 2. The frozen dessert and control, at the end of the 21 days, and optionally
each week, are analysed for one or more of: sensory differences, ice crystal sizes by
microscopy, ice crystal mass by gravimetric analysis, and product shrinkage.
Example 3: Preparing chocolate ice cream with and without microalgal flour
Light Ice cream with Microalgal flour.
INREDIENT                SOURCE/TYPE                  PERCENT OF TOTAL       FAT PERCENT
Milk, Skim                                            65.23%                 0.16%
Sugar                    C & H/ granulated            13.00%
Algal flour                                           4.00%                  2.20%
Cream                    40% Fat                      7.50%                  3.0%
Cocoa 11%                Gerken's Russet Plus         3.50%                  0.39%
Corn Syrup               36DE                         3.00%
                                               6

5496A-AU-D2
NFDM, low heat          Spray dried extra grade low 2.75%
                        heat nonfat dry milk (from
                        Dairy America)
GELSTAR @ IC 3548       FMC (stabilizer and         0.700%                   0.0049
                        emulsifier blend)
Salt                                                0.025%
Flavour                                             0.3%
Control Ice Cream (no microalgal flour)
INREDIENT               SOURCE/TYPE                 PERCENT OF TOTAL         FAT PERCENT
Milk, Skim                                                         62.60%    0.2%
Sugar                   C & H/ granulated                          13.00%
Algal flour                                                         0.00%    0.00%
Cream                   40% Fat                                    13.00%    5.2%
Cocoa 110%              Gerken's Russet Plus                        3.50%    0.39%
Corn Syrup              36DE                                        3.00%
NFDM, low heat          Spray dried extra grade low                 4.25%
                        heat nonfat dry milk (from
                        Dairy America)
GELSTAR @ IC 3548       FMC (stabilizer and                        0.600%
                        emulsifier blend)
Salt                                                               0.050%
Flavour                                                            0.000%    0.2%
Directions:
1 . Mix all ingredients in the following order: Algal flour, stabilizer, salt, sugar and
cocoa, Set aside.
2. Add corn syrup, skim milk and milk solids, Blend into dry mix. Add cream last.
3. Pasteurise 180'F for 15 seconds.
4. Homogenize at 180'F/30 bar using the GEA NiroSoavi Panda Homogenizer. Hold
mix in double boiler at 150'F and run through homogenizer.
5. Refrigerate mix
6. Add flavours
7. Run in ice cream machine (Taylor Company). Target is 30-40% overrun
The described preferred embodiments of the invention are intended to be merely
exemplary and numerous variations and modifications will be apparent to those
                                                 7

5496A-AU-D2
skilled in the art. All such variations and modifications are intended to be within the
scope of the present invention, as defined in the appended claims.
                                             8

5496A-AU-D2
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1 .      A frozen food product comprising microalgal biomass and ice crystals, wherein
the ice crystals have a median size of 25 pm or less, the frozen food product produced by
a method comprising:
         (a)   identifying a candidate frozen food product;
         (b)   adding 2% to 8% microalgal biomass;
         (c)   testing the resulting product for ice crystal growth or measuring the percent
         change in average ice crystal size to determine an amount of microalgal
        biomass sufficient to inhibit the formation or growth of ice crystals; and
         (d) producing a reformulated frozen food product comprising said
         amount of microalgal biomass sufficient to inhibit the formation or growth
         of ice crystals therein.
2.       The frozen food product according to claim 1, wherein the frozen food product
is a frozen dessert.
3.       The frozen food product according to claim 2, wherein the frozen food product
is an ice cream, low-fat ice cream, light ice cream, ice milk, frozen yogurt, sherbet,
frozen custard, gelato, or non-dairy ice cream substitute.
4.       The frozen food product according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
microalgal biomass comprises a microalgal flour.
5.       The frozen food product according to claim 4, wherein the microalgal flour is
characterized by an average particle size of 1 to 100 micrometers.
6.       The frozen food product according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
reformulated frozen food product comprises 3% to 7% microalgal biomass by weight.
7.       The frozen food product according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
microalgal biomass comprises biomass from the genus Chlorella or Prototheca.
                                               9

5496A-AU-D2
8.       The frozen food product according to claim 7, wherein the biomass comprises
biomass of Chlorellaprotothecoides or Protothecamoriformis.
9.       The frozen food product according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
microalgal biomass is derived from genetically engineered microalgal cells.
10.      The frozen food product according to any of the preceding claims wherein the
microalgal biomass is produced by culturing microalgae in the dark.
11.      The frozen food product according to claim 10, wherein the culturing includes
adding a fixed carbon source.
12.      The frozen food product according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the
rate of ice crystal growth as measured by the percent change in mean ice crystal circle
equivalent diameter is reduced by at least 5% in the reformulated frozen food product
as compared to the candidate frozen food product.
13.      The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the median ice
crystal size is less than 10 micrometers in the reformulated product.
Dated this 1st day of March 2018
                                Solazyme Roquette Nutritionals, LLC &
                                Board of Supervisors of Louisiana State University
                                and Agricultural and Mechanical College
                                By:
                                FRASER OLD & SOH1N
                                Patent Attorney for the Applicant
                                            10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
