                                           ABSTRACT
 AN IMPROVED POWER TRANSMISSION SYSTEM AND METHOD USING A CONDUCTING TUBE
                               201
                                   VN
                                                         Fig. 2
A system and method for improving power transmission is disclosed. Specifically, a system
for improving power transmission can comprise a transmission pipe, a first transceiver, and a
second transceiver. The transmission pipe can comprise a fluidic pipe anid have a first length.
Thbe first transceiver can be connected to a proximal end of the transmission pipe. The second
transceiver can be connected to a di stal end of the transmission pipe, and each of said
transceiv ers can be configured to commnunicate. by a signal having a wavelength -equal to two
times the length of the transmission pipe, divided by an integer greater than or equal to one,

    WO 2014/124344                                                        PCT/US2014/015437
                   An Improved Power Transmission System and Method using a Conducting
Title
                   Tube
                               FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0001] This disclosure relates to an improved power transmission system and method using a
conducting tube.    For purposes of this disclosure, variations are discussed, and are an
example of an improved power transmission system and method. However, such discussion
is solely exemplary, and not limiting.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] In a variety of applications, many of which are terrestrial in nature (geological
applications, piping, fluid transmission, drilling applications, long distance communication
involving pipelines) and require some type of electromagnetic transmission through the earth
it has become apparent that a variety of electromagnetic principles have not yet been
incorporated to optimize the potential of electromagnetic transmission in these areas of
application. Currently, there is an increased desire to locate certain zones where a particular
resource (heat/steam, drinking water, trapped gases such as C02, oil, natural gas etc.) might
be found. Electromagnetic energy can be useful in applications where it is currently difficult
to obtain or limited in supply. However, the standard methods of transmission are largely
limited to low frequency applications and therefore are not optimized.
                                              -1-

    WO 2014/124344                                                          PCT/US2014/015437
[0003] In industries where fluids (in the physics sense of the word, fluid signifies any liquid
or gas regardless of its molecular constituents) are piped over what is (currently) considered
long distances such as from a hundred yards to miles, particularly, but not limited to
subterranean locations, electromagnetic energy (AC power) is considered a valuable
commodity. Currently, forms of transmission include the use of metal cables and fiber-optics
etc. for electromagnetic communication applications. However, these methods require the use
of an additional cable of some sort. One advantage of using a fluidic pipe as a transmission
line is that no other cable is required. This also means that no other cable can break or get
caught and break on some fixture during installation or any other time. In applications where
external cables are still applicable, the use of the pipe can be for redundancy in the event that
the cable malfunctions.
[0004] Application areas can include the transmission of AC power or telemetry such as data
or the sending of control signals to open and/or closing a valves and other such commands.
This technology can be applied to a variety of industries such as geothermal applications
where steam from the earth turns a turbine to generate power. In such an application it might
be important to provide power to open or close a valve or turn on a pump and communicate
temperature data to ensure the steam does not melt components and the ability to choke/close
a valve to regulate power generation. Additionally, the same type of applications would be
applicable in the pumping of water from terrestrial areas such as aquifers via a pipeline to
land surface. Other areas can extend to gas piping such as carbon dioxide and other gases that
are commonly transmitted over many miles. In the United States, it is common that Kinder
Morgan (and other such companies) transmits C02 over many states. This example in
regards to carbon dioxide is specifically mentioned to clarify that the transmission of a "gas"
                                                -2-

    WO 2014/124344                                                         PCT/US2014/015437
is not limited to the oil and "gas" industry where gas usually means the molecule methane or
other such hydrocarbon gases. The application of the technology could apply to any industry
where a fluid is transmitted over great lengths with the need for accompanying data or
operations commands.
                                           SUMMARY
[0005] A system and method for improving power transmission is disclosed. Specifically, a
system for improving power transmission can comprise a transmission pipe, a first
transceiver, and a second transceiver. The transmission pipe can comprise a fluidic pipe and
have a first length.      The first transceiver can be connected to a proximal end of the
transmission pipe.      The second transceiver can be connected to a distal end of the
transmission pipe, and each of said transceivers can be configured to communicate by a
signal having a wavelength equal to two times the length of the transmission pipe, divided by
an integer greater than or equal to one.
[0006] A method for improving power transmission can comprise transmitting a signal from
a first transceiver positioned on a proximal end of a transmission pipe to a second transceiver
positioned on a distal end of said transmission pipe. The transmission pipe can comprise a
length equal to a wavelength of said signal, multiplied by an integer greater than 0, and
divided by two.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0007] Figure 1A illustrates a first graph with an instantaneous distribution of voltage along a
semi-infinite line including a resistance on the line S.W at distance (D) = nT/2, 3xT/2, 5xT/2, etc.
                                               -3 -

    WO 2014/124344                                                           PCT/US2014/015437
[0008] Figure 1B illustrates a second graph with an instantaneous distribution of voltage
along a semi-infinite line including a resistance on the line S.W at distance (D)    = n, 2 n, 3 JT,
etc.
[0009] Figure 2 illustrates a power transmission system buried under a terrestrial surface.
[0010] Figure 3 illustrates an embodiment of transceivers affixed to transmission pipes.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0011] Described herein is an improved power transmission using a conducting tube system
and method. The following description is presented to enable any person skilled in the art to
make and use the invention as claimed and is provided in the context of the particular
examples discussed below, variations of which will be readily apparent to those skilled in the
art. In the interest of clarity, not all features of an actual implementation are described in this
specification.   It will be appreciated        that in the development      of any such actual
implementation (as in any development project), design decisions must be made to achieve
the designers' specific goals (e.g., compliance with system- and business-related constraints),
and that these goals will vary from one implementation to another. It will also be appreciated
that such development effort might be complex and time-consuming, but would nevertheless
be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the field of the appropriate art having
the benefit of this disclosure. Accordingly, the claims appended hereto are not intended to be
limited by the disclosed embodiments, but are to be accorded their widest scope consistent
with the principles and features disclosed herein.
                                                  -4-

    WO 2014/124344                                                         PCT/US2014/015437
[0012] Figure 1A illustrates a first graph 100a with an instantaneous distribution of voltage
along a semi-infinite line including resistance on the line S.W at induction (L)    = n/2, 3x/2,
5xT/2, etc. Figure 1B illustrates a second graph 100b with an instantaneous distribution of
voltage along a semi-infinite line including resistance on the line S.W at induction (L)  = JT, 2
nT, 3 nT, etc.
[0013] Previous work in the area of using a pipe, as a transmission line was not appropriately
utilized. A standard wave equation is generally used to describe standing waves in
electromagnetics.    In the use of transmission line theory as it relates to electromagnetic
waves, the use of a standard wave equation might be applicable to lossless transmission lines
and waveguides.       A lossless transmission line is one whose resistance is considered
exceptionally low or approximated as zero. In theory, many such transmission lines exists,
however, a transmission line in practice with insignificant resistance is not practical. A high
frequency and short distance line or a low frequency long distance line might be considered
lossless. These assumptions can be made at what is considered low frequencies (~60 Hz or
100 Hz), because no consideration is given to the skin effect, which is related to frequency.
In order to increase power transmission, one fights a losing battle as a result of eddy currents
produced in the transmission line. Eddy currents result in the power being dissipated as heat
is equated as resistive losses. When this happens the assumptions that allow for the lossless
transmission line are no longer valid and therefore, the standard wave equations are no longer
valid. The resulting governing equation would then be given as, Equation (1):
                        2V(Z' =t)RGV(z,t)+(RC+LG) av(z't)     + LC    2V(Zt)
                       az 2
                                                         at           at2
                                              -5 -

    WO 2014/124344                                                         PCT/US2014/015437
                       2
                               = RGI(z,t)+( RC + LG) I(z,t )+ LC a2 1(z,t)
                           -(z,t)
                         az2                               at        at2
[0014] The inclusion of the resistance term can be significant when trying to transmit over
"long" distances.    The standard wave equation omits the resistance term. This is why it
might be applied to waveguides. In a waveguide there is no resistance. The transmission
medium is considered the air inside the guide.        Along a practical transmission line, at a
moderate frequency, the telegrapher/resistance effects must be considered. The resistance of
such a line must be modified. Direct current (DC) resistance can be given as R= pL/A.
However, for a pipe with an alternating current (AC) field, it can be approximated by (Cohn,
Formula and tables for the calculation of alternating current problem), Equation (2):
                                   1 W212 Y2   1    W414 Y4
                      R=Ro 1+ i                   -    -    +... S=|Vmax|
                                  12 R2       180     R4
[0015] At higher frequencies, transmission lines have an increased resistance.          From a
mathematical point of view, the wave equation omits the first order time component (the
exponential decay function). The resulting implication in the omission of the resistance term
is that electromagnetic waves could be transmitted over thousands of miles in a metallic
transmission line with no loss. Figures 1A and 1B indicate the nature in which a transmitted
signal decays in a transmission line with resistive loss. Equation 2 demonstrates an increase
in resistance of a pipe, which is directly proportional to frequency. Such an implication of a
lossless transmission line is not feasible as frequency increases.        It is therefore more
appropriate to use Equation 1 as the governing equation.
                                              -6-

    WO 2014/124344                                                          PCT/US2014/015437
[0016] The need for shorter wavelengths would allow for the optimization of power
transmission via the voltage standing wave ratio, S, which is related to the voltage reflection
coefficient, F (which is a function of the termination load of the transmission line, the
wavelength: distance ratio, and the characteristic impedance of the line) and directly results
in power losses when not optimized. The Voltage standing wave ratio is given as:
                                       S   Vm I1+|F
                                            Vmin    1-|F
[0017] In order to maximize power transfer, the wavelength must be proportional to the
transmission distance, which is known in antenna applications.       This allows for a standing
wave.    If it were economically feasible, all antennas would use this characteristic.            If
conditions for a standing wave do not exist, then there can be a reflected wave, which can in
turn interfere with the transmitted wave and diminish the magnitude of the propagating
signal. The reflection coefficient is given as:
                                         F ZL ZO       S-1
                                           ZO+ZL       S+1
[0018] Here ZL is the load (termination) impedance and Zo is the characteristic impedance of
the transmission line which is given as:
                                      Z = R + jwD    _  R + jwD
                                                y       G+ jwC
[0019] In this equation, R is resistance, G conductance, D induction, and C is capacitance. It
should be pointed out that in the case of a pipe as a transmission line that all the characteristic
                                                -7-

   WO 2014/124344                                                           PCT/US2014/015437
values are dependent on the appropriate equations such as Equation 2 for Resistance. Other
equations exist in literature for the induction and capacitance of a pipe. As a note on standing
waves, it can be shown from the equation 1 that standing waves exist in both free space (on
an infinite transmission line) and on a finite line at a distance that is a multiple of the half
wave carrier wavelength. This property can also be observed in Figures 1 and 2. A wave can
always demonstrate superior reflection coefficient (all other factors remaining equal) when its
termination distance is located at the half-wavelength location. That is to say:
                                     L=n- n =1,2,3,4,...
                                          2
[0020] It was noted that at AM broadcast frequencies a single half-wavelength antenna
would be over a hundred meters long.          The technology described here serves to use the
benefits of this statement. The reason antennas are not as long is the fact that the cost would
be tremendous. Generally, techniques are employed to minimize the need for the size of such
an antenna. Fortunately, there are such industries where the necessary long antenna of such
length exists. These are the industries described in the field of the invention section. It is
desirous to minimize the reflected wave, which causes this power loss. In doing so, one
would raise the frequency.          This in turn raises the characteristic impedance of the
transmission line [ref].     This non-standard resistance must be taken into account when
considering transmission (see Equation 2).
[0021] Capacitance, Induction, and conductance all have similar equations that are distance
and frequency dependent.          In practice the pipes can be measured with commercial
instruments to obtain their parameters at a given frequency.          Such measurements are a
                                                -8-

    WO 2014/124344                                                           PCT/US2014/015437
common practice.      Depending on the size of the fluid carrying tube, the characteristic
parameters should vary greatly. It would therefore be necessary to know each individual case
rather than try to generalize the characteristic impedance of (for instance) a 5 inch pipe inside
a 7 inch pipe vs. a 7 inch pipe inside a 9 5/8 inch pipe. Once the parameters are obtained for
the specific application based transmission line of given dimensions and a given material
certain calculations can be made. At this point, the considerations regarding a transmission
line terminated at a finite length can be considered.         The voltage, current, and load at a
location z' on a terminated transmission line are given as:
                             V(z')     L [(ZL + ZO )eyz -  (Z - Z0 )e-Z
                                     2Zo
                                I(z') _  L    sinh yz'+ Zo cosh yz')
                                        Zo
                                                      Zo tanh yz'
                                    Zoz') = Zo ZL +
                                                Zo + ZL tanhyz
[0022] It is then noted that when a finite transmission line is matched (Zo     = ZL), the voltage
and current distributions are exactly the same as though the line has been extended to infinity.
This is considered the optimized case.
                                 Z=      Z0    = Zo ZL +Zo tanhyl
                                                    Zo+ZL tanh yl
[0023] It is not the purpose here to give a complete synopsis on the derivations of such
equations. The equations themselves have been derived extensively. The equations are used
                                                -9-

    WO 2014/124344                                                        PCT/US2014/015437
in practice through a tool known as Smith Chart. The mathematical manipulation necessary
for these calculations is complex.       The Smith Chart has basically taken care of the
calculations for the user. The important improvement here is that the parameters need to be
the modified R, C, D, and G for the pipe geometry.           The applications to which these
improvements apply can include using the transmitted power to harness energy such as
charging a battery, operate an electric pump, valve or other such equipment like surveying
equipment that needs electricity.     Additionally, these topics can be extended to include
telemetry. A special discussion should be made about telemetry. As a byproduct of power
transmission and the need to include the resistance (exponentially decaying term) in the line
it was noted that Equation 1 is therefore the governing equation. The equation is referred to
as "The Telegrapher's Equation", which is used in telemetry. It is appropriately labeled the
"telegrapher's equation" because it has been the governing equation of telemetry since prior
to the previous century.    It correctly described the physics of a signal in the days when
telegraphs were the primary mode of distance communication.          Standard wave equations
cannot in general describe the fact that waves do not propagate forever, nor do they propagate
across exceptionally long distances. When trying to describe telemetry, it should be noted
that the physics of telemetry exists via the use of "on off' type signals that are sent. In the
case of frequency shifting a higher frequency is considered a "1" and a lower frequency is a
"0". In phase shifting a "sine wave" is sent as a "1" and a corresponding "cosine wave"
(which is out of phase with the original wave and thus the name phase shifting) would
correspond to zero. Such a variety of schemes exist that there are too many to discuss here.
What is of note is that all of these such schemes are carrier signal and the "0" carrier signal.
                                             - 10 -

    WO 2014/124344                                                      PCT/US2014/015437
As such, telemetry by its very nature cannot be considered a "standing wave" and therefore
the standard wave equations would not apply.
[0024] Figure 2 illustrates a power transmission system 200 buried under a terrestrial surface
201.   Power transmission system 200 can comprise a pair of transceivers 202, and a plurality
of transmission pipes 203 covered through a casing 204. Transceivers 202 can be a device
capable of transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves with encoded data at a wide
range of wavelengths. As such transceiver 202 can comprise a transmitter and a receiver.
Transmitter 202 can produce electro magnetic waves for the purpose of power transmission
to be harnessed at a receiver location. A first transceiver 202a can be attached at the top of
transmission pipes 203 while a second transceiver 202b can be attached at the bottom of
transmission pipes 203.
[0025] Transmission pipes 203 can comprise one or more pipes. Transmission pipes 203 can
be used in pumping a fluid from the bottom of transmission pipes 203 to the top of
transmission pipes 203, in one embodiment. In another embodiment, transmission pipes 203
can transfer fluid from the top of transmission pipes 203 to the bottom of the pipes. In one
embodiment, transmission pipes 203 can be a hollowed out electrically conducting tube
comprising of metallic pipe. As such, transmission pipes 203 can be buried under terrestrial
surface   201 and can be generally used in fluidic applications such as recovering
hydrocarbons. In another embodiment transmission pipes 203 can be an annular conducting
tube system. In such embodiments, a wave generator can pass an electromagnetic wave,
which enables electromagnetic power transmission or telemetry communication whereby
strategic placement of the receiving location produces and improves transmission.
                                             - 11 -

   WO 2014/124344                                                           PCT/US2014/015437
[0026] Casing 204 can be protective enclosure for transmission pipes 203.            Casing 204
prevents a formation 206 to collapse against transmission pipes 203. This can be a possible
case when the transmission distance is exceptionally long; the mechanical properties of the
pipe and the earth formation take over. An annulus 205 can be the created void in between
transmission pipes 203 and casing 204. A fluidic material 207 can fill annulus 205 to balance
pressure and create a buoyancy effect enabling the running of more pipes to have a lower
apparent weight and less stress, in on embodiment.
[0027] Figure 3 illustrates an embodiment of transceivers 202 affixed to transmission pipes
203. Transceivers 202 can be attached to transmission pipes 203 in various ways. In one
embodiment, transceivers 202 can be wrapped around transmission pipes 203 in a loop
manner through a coil 300 such as a Helmholtz coil.            For purposes of this disclosure,
Helmholtz coil can be a convenient material for producing a smooth field.            A series of
castillations can be cut into transmission pipes 203 and coil 300 can be wrapped around the
individual castillations, or the signal can be attached directly to transmission pipes 203 in the
manner low-frequency experimental radio (LowFERs) attach a coil.
[0028] Further, second transceiver 202b can be at a position wherein power transmission can
be difficult while first transceiver 202a can be at an accessible location for transmitting and
receiving power transmission. In such setup, second transceiver 202b can comprise a power
source 301 and a microprocessor 302.          Power source 301 can be capable of producing
sufficient current necessary for power transmission. Furthermore, power source 302 can be
used to supply power to second transceiver 202b. Power source 301 can include but are not
limited to battery, battery pack, or generator wherein power can be produced by a moving
                                               - 12 -

    WO 2014/124344                                                          PCT/US2014/015437
fluid. As such, power source 301 can be installed on transmission pipes 203 in different
positions, such as on the pipe, near the pipe, inside the pipe or concentrically around it.
Microprocessor 302 can be capable of decoding received data commands that then send
commands to equipment such as valves, pumps, etc.
[0029] As an example, the deepest well in the world is currently between 12,000 and 13,000
meters. Therefore, a lower end of the transmission wavelength would be ~26,000m (or 11.5
kHz). The upper end of the transmission capability would be in the range at which
waveguides are used ~10cm (3 GHz), however these would correspond to shorter
transmission distances. Transceivers 202 can be separated by a distance, which corresponds
to integer multiples of the transmitting carrier wavelength X/2 along transmission pipes 203.
Second transceiver 202b can send the time varying electromagnetic waves to first transceiver
202a. The receiver can be appropriately schemed to insure that it has a minimal reflection
coefficient. This may mean that the receiving load is physically located at a particular
distance to ensure its reflection is minimized or it may mean that the receiving circuit is
appropriately tuned to the transmission frequency (similar to how any radio operator tunes to
the appropriate channel).      As a matter of practicality, the receiving circuit at the top of
transmission pipe 203 can be more accessible and can therefore be capable of being tuned.
For this reason, it is in general that when telemetry is necessary to be sent, second transceiver
202b can be sending out a specific wavelength and first transceiver 202a can be tuned to that
wavelength. First transceiver 202a can have the receiving circuit with the ability to tune to
the appropriate load. Should second transceiver 202b be moved farther into the hole (or
pulled out of the hole for some reason), its characteristic impedance could then be changed
and first transceiver 202a can have the ability to send data to second transceiver 202b telling
                                               - 13 -

    WO 2014/124344                                                           PCT/US2014/015437
second transceiver 202b to modify any carrier wavelength first transceiver 202a transmits.
Because first transceiver 202a is tuned to the appropriate load and wavelength, the
corresponding distance can be correlated from the telegrapher's equation or in some cases
with the aid of a Smith Chart. Such information can have the ability to command second
transceiver 202b to transmit the data back to first transceiver 202a on a different carrier
wavelength if necessary.       Two-way communication allows for a continually adjustable
system to operate with minimum reflection coefficients.             The preceding description is
important to make sure that both the transmitter and receiver aspect of the system are
appropriately tuned to the identical characteristic loads.       Notice the desired effect is not
necessarily low or zero loads as described elsewhere. The desired effect is an identical load
to ensure correct reflection coefficients. It is at this point that, when appropriately tuned, the
system is then capable of transmitting larger amounts of power if desired.
[0030] Various changes in the details of the illustrated operational methods are possible
without departing from the scope of the following claims. Some embodiments may combine
the activities described herein as being separate steps.          Similarly, one or more of the
described steps may be omitted, depending upon the specific operational environment the
method is being implemented in. It is to be understood that the above description is intended
to be illustrative, and not restrictive. For example, the above-described embodiments may be
used in combination with each other. Many other embodiments can be apparent to those of
skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should,
therefore, be determined with reference to the appended claims, along with the full scope of
equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims, the terms "including"
                                               - 14 -

   WO 2014/124344                                                         PCT/US2014/015437
and "in which" are used as the plain-English equivalents of the respective terms "comprising"
and "wherein."
                                            - 15 -

   WO 2014/124344                                                         PCT/US2014/015437
                                          CLAIMS
1.    A system for improving power transmission comprising
              a transmission pipe comprising a fluidic pipe, said transmission pipe having a
              first length; and
              a first transceiver connected to a proximal end of said transmission pipe; and
              a second transceiver connected to a distal end of said transmission line, each of
              said transceivers configured to communicate by a signal having a wavelength
              equal to two times said length, divided by an integer greater than or equal to
              1.
2.    The system of claim 1 wherein said integer is equal to or less than 20.
3.    The system of claim 1 wherein said integer equals 1.
4.    The system of claim 1 wherein said integer equals 2.
5.    The system of claim 1 wherein said integer equals 10.
6.    The system of claim wherein said first length is greater than 200 feet.
7.    The system of claim 1 wherein said first length is greater than 1,000 feet.
8.    The system of claim 1 wherein said first length is greater than 10,000 feet.
9.    The system of claim 1 wherein said first transceiver capable of sending data to said
      second transceiver to modify said wavelength second transceiver transmits.
                                             - 16 -

    WO 2014/124344                                                         PCT/US2014/015437
10.    The system of claim 1 wherein said second transceiver are capable of transmitting
       data back to first transceiver on a second signal having a second wavelength, said
       second wavelength different from said wavelength.
11.    The system of claim 1 wherein said transmission pipe comprises a characteristic
       impedance, further wherein said transmitters are matched to said characteristic
       impedance of said transmission line.
12.    The system of claim 1 wherein said transmission pipe is capable of transmitting
       hydrocarbons while said transmitters are communicating.
13.    The system of claim 1 wherein each of said transceivers comprises coils that are each
       wrapped around said transmission pipes.
14.    The system of claim 13 wherein said coils comprise a Helmholtz coil.
15.    A method for improving power transmission comprising the step
               transmitting a signal from a first transceiver positioned on a proximal end of a
               transmission pipe to a second transceiver positioned on a distal end of said
               transmission pipe, said transmission pipe comprising a length equal to a
               wavelength of said signal, multiplied by an integer greater than zero, and
               divided by two.
                                             - 17  -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
       EDITORIAL NOTE
           <removed-apn>
There is 1 page in Gene Sequence only.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
