                                     ABSTRACT
The present application relates to the technical field of pans and in particular relates to
a pan with measuring marks. Aiming at the defect of the existing pan in the aspect of
oil amount measurement, the adopted technical solution is as follow: a pan with
measuring marks comprises a pan body and a pan handle mounted on the pan body; a
first measuring mark is provided on a bottom surface of the pan body; a second
measuring mark cooperatively used with the first measuring mark is provided on an
inner sidewall of the pan body; and when the pan body is inclined, the measurement
of oil amount is realized through the cooperative use of the first measuring mark and
the second measuring mark. The present application can realize measurement by
operating the pan handle only to enable the pan body to be inclined, and the operation
is convenient to perform; and no measuring tool is needed to measure the oil amount,
the oil amount can be relatively accurately controlled and the pan is simple and
convenient to use.

   1/6
DRAWINGS
            1
       3
  FIG. 1
         41
      3
  FIG. 2

                                   DESCRIPTION
                      PAN WITH MEASURING MARKS
Field
The present application belongs to the technical field of pans and in particular relates
to a pan with measuring marks.
Background
Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
common general knowledge in the field.
When a pan is used for cooking food, it is not easy to control an amount of oil poured
into the pan. If the amount of oil is small, the cooking effect is not good; and if the
amount of oil is excessive, waste is caused and it is not beneficial to body health of
people. If the oil amount is measured by adopting a special measuring tool (such as a
measuring cup, a measuring spoon or utensil), at each time when oil is poured, firstly
the oil is poured into the measuring tool, then the oil is poured into the pan, the
measuring tool needs to be cleaned after use and it is very troublesome in use.
Therefore, many people pour oil directly based on feeling and usually the oil amount
cannot be relatively accurately controlled.
In order to solve the above-mentioned problem, Chinese utility model patent with
authorized publication No. CN 202146201U discloses a pan with scales, wherein
scales indicating normal oil demands of human body are clearly marked at a bottom
of the pan. The scales are provided at the bottom of the pan and are only applicable to
round-bottom pans and are not suitable for flat-bottom pans, the limitation is great,
the applicable scope is small and the specific numerical value of oil amount cannot be
measured.
Summary
It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
Aiming at the defects of the existing pan in the aspect of oil amount measurement, the
preferred embodiments of the present invention provide a pan with measuring marks
which are suitable for oil amount measurement of various pans.
In order to realize the above-mentioned purpose, the preferred embodiments of the
present invention adopt the following technical solution: a pan with measuring marks
comprises a pan body and a pan handle mounted on the pan body;
a first measuring mark is provided on a bottom surface of the pan body;
a second measuring mark cooperatively used with the first measuring mark is

provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body; and
when the pan body is inclined, the measurement of oil amount is realized through the
cooperative use of the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark.
Preferably, the number of the first measuring mark is one and the number of the
second measuring mark is one. Since partial people strictly control oil amount per
dish per day per meal at current, one pair of measuring marks are only provided such
that people can be reminded of whether current oil amount exceeds an upper limit,
and thus demands of partial people are met.
Preferably, the number of the first measuring mark is one and the number of the
second measuring mark is more than one. Most people add a proper amount of oil
according to different types of food and different amounts of food, and by providing
one first measuring mark and a plurality of second measuring marks, various different
oil amounts can be measured.
Preferably, the number of the first measuring mark is more than one and the number
of the second measuring mark is one. Most people add a proper amount of oil
according to different types of food and different amounts of food, and by providing a
plurality of first measuring marks and one second measuring mark, various different
oil amounts can be measured.
Preferably, the number of the first measuring mark is more than one and the number
of the second measuring mark is more than one. Most people add a proper amount of
oil according to different types of food and different amounts of food, and by
providing a plurality of first measuring marks and a plurality of second measuring
mark, various different oil amounts can be measured.
Preferably, the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark which are
cooperatively used are provided with scale lines which are connected to form a ring,
such that the observation is facilitated and rapid measurement can be realized.
Preferably, the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark are one or a
combination of more of point, line, numeral, character and symbol. By providing
various different marks for selection, differentiated demands of people are met.
Preferably, the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark are provided at a
position, close to the pan handle, of the pan body, such that the operation and
observation are facilitated. It is more difficult to incline the pan in a direction
perpendicular to a left-right direction of the handle, and it is easier to incline the pan
along the direction of the handle.
Preferably, the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark are provided at a
position, far away from the pan handle, of the pan body, such that the operation and
observation are facilitated. It is more difficult to incline the pan in a direction
perpendicular to a left-right direction of the handle, and it is easier to incline the pan
along the direction of the handle.

Preferably, the first measuring marks and the second measuring marks are provided at
a position close to the pan handle and a position far away from the pan handle, such
that the operation and observation are facilitated. It is more difficult to incline the pan
in a direction perpendicular to a left-right direction of the handle, and it is easier to
incline the pan along the direction of the handle. By providing the measuring marks at
both ends, different use habits of people are met.
Preferably, the pan body is a flat-bottom circular pan body, the first measuring mark
comprises a line segment, the second measuring mark comprises a plurality of arcs,
planes on which the arcs are located are in parallel with one another and an Arabic
numeral is provided at the position of each arc. When the oil amount is measured,
after oil is in a horizontal state, the line segment at the bottom of the pan body and the
arcs on the sidewall of the pan body are in flush with an oil surface, such that the
measurement is more accurate. Since each arc is provided with an Arabic numeral, the
observation is facilitated.
Preferably, the line segment and the arcs are formed by grooves on the pan body, the
depth of each groove is smaller than or equal to 0.5 mm and the width of each groove
is smaller than or equal to 0.5 mm. As compared with protrusions, it is convenient to
manufacture grooves; and the depth of each groove shall be as small as possible on
the premise that the observation need is met. If the depth of each groove is greater
than 0.5 mm, the manufacturing time is long and the measurement accuracy is
influenced; and if the width of each groove is greater than 0.5 mm, the manufacturing
time is long and the measurement accuracy is influenced. The depth and width of the
grooves have an allowance for the thickness of a coating layer.
As compared with the prior art, the present application has the following advantages:
1) the measurement can be realized by operating the pan handle only to enable the pan
body to be inclined, and the operation is convenient to perform; by cooperatively
using the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark to measure the oil
amount, no measuring tool is needed to measure the oil amount, the oil amount can be
relatively accurately controlled and the pan is simple and convenient to use; 2) the
structure is simple and easy to realize and the pan with measuring marks is suitable
for oil amount measurement of various pans such as flat-bottom pans and
round-bottom pans; and 3) the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark
can be provided by means of etching and laser, are not easily worn and are safe and
effective to use.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
sense of "including, but not limited to".
Description of the Drawings
Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:

FIG. 1 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 1 of the present
application.
FIG. 2 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 2 of the present
application.
FIG. 3 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 3 of the present
application.
FIG. 4 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 4 of the present
application.
FIG. 5 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 5 of the present
application.
FIG. 6 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 6 of the present
application.
FIG. 7 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 7 of the present
application.
FIG. 8 illustrates a use state reference diagram of embodiment 2 of the present
application.
FIG. 9 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 8 of the present
application.
FIG. 10 illustrates a structural schematic diagram of embodiment 9 of the present
application.
In the drawings, 1-pan body; 2-pan handle; 3-first measuring mark; 4-second
measuring mark; 5-oil
Description of the Embodiments
The technical solutions of the embodiments of the present application will be
explained and described below with reference to the drawings of the embodiments of
the present application. However, the embodiments described below are just preferred
embodiments of the present application instead of all embodiments of the present
application. Other embodiments obtained by one skilled in the art based on the
embodiments in the implementation modes without contributing any inventive labor
shall be all included in the protective scope of the present application.
Referring to FIG. 1 to FIG. 10, a pan with measuring marks comprises a pan body and
a pan handle mounted on the pan body; a first measuring mark is provided on a
bottom surface of the pan body; a second measuring mark cooperatively used with the
first measuring mark is provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body; and when the
pan body is inclined, the measurement of oil amount is realized through the
cooperative use of the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark.
Since the inner bottom surface and the inner sidewall of the pan body provided by the

present application are respectively provided with the measuring marks, the
measurement can be realized by operating the pan handle only to enable the pan body
to be inclined, and the operation is convenient to perform; by cooperatively using the
first measuring mark and the second measuring mark to measure the oil amount, no
measuring tool is needed to measure the oil amount, the oil amount can be relatively
accurately controlled and the pan is simple and convenient to use; the structure is
simple and easy to realize and the pan with measuring marks is suitable for oil amount
measurement of various pans such as flat-bottom pans and round-bottom pans; and
the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark can be provided by means of
etching and laser, are not easily worn and are safe and effective to use.
Embodiment 1
As illustrated in FIG. 1, embodiment 1 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 (not shown) is mounted on the pan body 1, a first
measuring mark 3 is provided on an inner bottom surface of the pan body 1, the first
measuring mark 3 is perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a second measuring mark 4 is
provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body and the second measuring mark 4 is
perpendicular to the pan handle 2. The first measuring mark 3 is a line segment and
the second measuring mark 4 comprises a line segment and a measuring numerical
value "1OmL" beside the line segment. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the
measurement of the oil amount is realized through the cooperative use of the first
measuring mark 3 and the second measuring mark 4. The first measuring mark 3 with
the structure comprising the line segment is applicable to a round-bottom pan.
Embodiment 2
As illustrated in FIG. 2, embodiment 2 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 (not shown) is mounted on the pan body 1, a first
measuring mark 3 is provided on an inner bottom surface of the pan body 1, the first
measuring mark 3 is perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a plurality of second
measuring marks 4 are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body and the second
measuring marks 4 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2. The first measuring mark 3
is a line segment and the second measuring marks 4 comprise a plurality of line
segments and a plurality of measuring numerical values "lOmL", "20mL", "30mL"
and "40mL" beside the line segments. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the
measurement of the oil amount is realized through the cooperative use of the first
measuring mark 3 and the second measuring marks 4.
As illustrated in FIG. 8, when embodiment 2 of the present application is used, the
pan handle 2 is operated on a vertical plane, the pan body 1 is inclined on the vertical
plane to adjust the oil 5 in the pan body 1 to enable one side of the oil 5 to be in flush
with the first measuring mark 3 on the inner bottom surface of the pan body 1, and
when the oil is horizontal, the relative positions between the second measuring mark 4
on the inner sidewall of the pan body 1 and the oil surface are observed to obtain an
approximate oil amount. The oil amount illustrated in FIG. 4 is 30mL.

Embodiment 3
As illustrated in FIG. 3, embodiment 3 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 (not shown) is mounted on the pan body 1, a
plurality of first measuring marks 3 are provided on an inner bottom surface of the
pan body 1, the first measuring marks 3 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a
second measuring mark 4 is provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body and the
second measuring mark 4 is perpendicular to the pan handle 2. The first measuring
marks 3 comprise line segments and a plurality of measuring numerical
values"lOmL", "20mL", "30mL" and "40mL" in the middle of the line segments, the
measuring numerical values break the line segments, and the second measuring mark
4 is an arc. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the measurement of the oil amount is
realized through the cooperative use of the first measuring marks 3 and the second
measuring mark 4.
Embodiment 4
As illustrated in FIG. 4, embodiment 4 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 (not shown) is mounted on the pan body 1, a
plurality of first measuring marks 3 are provided on an inner bottom surface of the
pan body 1, the first measuring marks 3 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a
plurality of second measuring marks 4 are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan
body and the second measuring marks 4 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2. The
first measuring marks 3 comprise line segments and a plurality of measuring
numerical values "lOmL", "20mL", "3OmL" and "40mL" in the middle of the line
segments, the measuring numerical values break the line segments, the second
measuring marks 4 comprise arcs and a plurality of measuring numerical values
"1OmL", "20mL", "3OmL" and "40mL" in the middle of the arcs, and the measuring
numerical values break the line segments. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the
measurement of the oil amount is realized through the cooperative use of one first
measuring mark 3 and one second measuring mark 4 corresponding thereto.
Specifically, "1OmL" of the first measuring mark 3 is used as a reference, and when
the oil surface corresponds to "lOmL" of the second measuring mark 4, the oil
amount is 1OmL; and when the oil surface corresponds to "20mL" of the second
measuring mark 4, the oil amount is 20mL.
Embodiment 5
As illustrated in FIG. 5, embodiment 5 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 (not shown) is mounted on the pan body 1, a
plurality of first measuring marks 3 are provided on an inner bottom surface of the
pan body 1, the first measuring marks 3 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a
plurality of second measuring marks 4 are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan
body, the second measuring marks 4 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, and the
first measuring marks 3 and the second measuring marks 4 form rings. The first
measuring marks 3 comprise line segments and a plurality of measuring numerical
values "lOmL", "20mL", "30mL" and "40mL" above the middle of the line segments,

and the second measuring marks 4 are arcs. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the
measurement of the oil amount is realized through one ring formed by one measuring
mark 3 and one second measuring mark 4 corresponding thereto.
Embodiment 6
As illustrated in FIG. 6, embodiment 6 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 (not shown) is mounted on the pan body 1, a
plurality of first measuring marks 3 are provided on an inner bottom surface of the
pan body 1, the first measuring marks 3 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a
plurality of second measuring marks 4 are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan
body, the second measuring marks 4 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, and the
first measuring marks 3 and the second measuring marks 4 form rings. The first
measuring marks 3 comprise arcs and a plurality of measuring numerical values
"1OmL", "20mL", "30mL" and "40mL" above the arcs and the second measuring
marks 4 are arc lines. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the measurement of the oil
amount is realized through one ring formed by one measuring mark 3 and one second
measuring mark 4 corresponding thereto. The first measuring marks 3 with the
structure comprising the arcs are suitable for round-bottom pans.
Embodiment 7
As illustrated in FIG. 7, embodiment 7 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 is mounted on the pan body 1, a plurality of first
measuring marks 3 are provided on an inner bottom surface of the pan body 1, the
first measuring marks 3 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a plurality of second
measuring marks 4 are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body, the second
measuring marks 4 are perpendicular to the pan handle 2, and the first measuring
marks 3 and the second measuring marks 4 form rings. The first measuring marks 3
comprise line segments and a plurality of measuring numerical values "10mL",
"20mL", "30mL" and "40mL" in the middle of the line segments and the second
measuring marks 4 are arcs. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the measurement of the
oil amount is realized through one ring formed by one measuring mark 3 and one
second measuring mark 4 corresponding thereto. A plurality of first measuring marks
3 and a plurality of measuring marks 4 are provided at one end, close to the pan
handle 2 and one end, far away from the pan handle 2, of the inner bottom surface of
the pan body 1.
Embodiment 8
As illustrated in FIG. 9, embodiment 8 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 is mounted on the pan body 1, a first measuring
mark 3 is provided on an inner bottom surface of the pan body 1, the first measuring
mark 3 is perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a plurality of second measuring marks 4
are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body, and the second measuring marks 4
are perpendicular to the pan handle 2. The first measuring mark 3 comprises a line
segment and a reference measuring numerical value "1OmL" in the middle of the line

segment. The second measuring marks 4 comprise a plurality of arcs and a plurality of
measuring numerical values "10mL", "20mL", "30mL" and "40mL" at the arcs, the
measuring numerical values break the arcs, plane on which the arcs are located are in
parallel with one another, and the planes on which the arcs are located are in parallel
with the bottom of the pan body. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the measurement of
the oil amount is realized through one ring formed by one measuring mark 3 and one
second measuring mark 4 corresponding thereto. The first measuring mark 3 and the
second measuring marks 4 are formed by grooves in the pan body 1. The width of the
grooves forming the line segment and the arcs is 0.3mm and the depth is 0.3mm. The
width of the grooves forming the measuring numerical values is 0.1mm and the depth
is 0.3mm. The grooves are coated with a coating layer.
Embodiment 9
As illustrated in FIG. 10, embodiment 10 of the present application is a pan with
measuring marks, a pan handle 2 is mounted on the pan body 1, a first measuring
mark 3 is provided on an inner bottom surface of the pan body 1, the first measuring
mark 3 is perpendicular to the pan handle 2, a plurality of second measuring marks 4
are provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body, and the second measuring marks 4
are perpendicular to the pan handle 2. The first measuring mark 3 comprises a line
segment and a reference measuring numerical value "1 OmL" in the middle of the line
segment. The second measuring marks 4 comprise a plurality of arcs and a plurality of
measuring numerical values "1OmL", "20mL", "30mL" and "40mL" at the arcs, the
measuring numerical values are located above the middle of the arcs, plane on which
the arcs are located are in parallel with one another, and the planes on which the arcs
are located are in parallel with the bottom of the pan body. The arc corresponding to
each measuring numerical value is a complete arc and the measuring numerical value
does not break the arc. When the pan body 1 is inclined, the measurement of the oil
amount is realized through one ring formed by one measuring mark 3 and one second
measuring mark 4 corresponding thereto. The first measuring mark 3 and the second
measuring marks 4 are formed by grooves in the pan body 1. The width of the
grooves forming the line segment and the arcs is 0.5mm and the depth is 0.5mm. The
width of the grooves forming the measuring numerical values is 0.1mm and the depth
is 0.5mm.
What are described above are just specific implementation modes of the present
application. However, the protective scope of the present application is not limited
thereto. One skilled in the art shall understand that the present application includes but
not limited to the content described in the drawings and the above-mentioned specific
implementation modes. Any modifications made without departing from the functions
and the structural principle of the present application shall be all included in the scope
of the claims.

                                        CLAIMS
1. A pan with measuring marks comprising a pan body and a pan handle mounted
on the pan body, wherein,
a first measuring mark is provided on a bottom surface of the pan body;
a second measuring mark cooperatively used with the first measuring mark is
provided on an inner sidewall of the pan body; and
when the pan body is inclined, the measurement of oil amount is realized through the
cooperative use of the first measuring mark and the second measuring mark.
2. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the number of the
first measuring mark is one and the number of the second measuring mark is one.
3. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the number of the
first measuring mark is one and the number of the second measuring mark is more
than one.
4. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the number of the
first measuring mark is more than one and the number of the second measuring mark
is one.
5. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the number of the
first measuring mark is more than one and the number of the second measuring mark
is more than one.
6. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the first measuring
mark and the second measuring mark which are cooperatively used are provided with
scale lines which are connected to form a ring.
7. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the first measuring
mark and the second measuring mark are one or a combination of one or more of a
point, a line, a numeral, a character and a symbol.
8. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 1, wherein the first measuring
mark and the second measuring mark are provided at a position, close to the pan
handle, of the pan body.
9. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 3, wherein the pan body is a
flat-bottom circular pan body, the first measuring mark comprises a line segment, the
second measuring mark comprises a plurality of arcs, planes on which the arcs are
located are in parallel with one another and an Arabic numeral is provided at the
position of each arc.
10. The pan with measuring marks according to claim 9, wherein the line segment
and the arcs are formed by grooves on the pan body, the depth of each groove is
smaller than or equal to 0.5 mm and the width of each groove is smaller than or equal
to 0.5 mm.

                <U+270D><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
               <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E>
               <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270C>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2701>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>                              <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2701>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>                              <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>                              <U+2701><U+270E><U+270F>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2701>   <U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>                       <U+2702><U+270E><U+270F>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+271F><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E>                              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270F>

