FUSION PROTEINS COMPRISING AN ENGINEERED KNOTTIN
PEPTIDE AND USES THEREOF
ABSTRACT
The present disclosure presents a general approach to engineering existing protein-protein
interactions through domain addition and evolution. The disclosure teaches the creation of novel
fusion proteins that include knottin peptides where a portion of the knottin peptide is replaced
with a sequence that has been created for binding to a particular target. Such fusion proteins can
also be bispecific or multi specific in that they can bind to and/or inhibit two or more receptors
or receptor ligands. Knottins may be fused with an existing ligand (or receptor) as a general
platform for increasing the affinity of a ligand-receptor interaction or for creating a multi specific
protein. In addition, the fusion proteins may comprise a knottin peptide fused to another protein
where the other protein facilitates proper expression and folding of the knottin.

    Fusion Proteins Comprising an Engineered Knottin Peptide and Uses
                                            Thereof
   Inventors: Jennifer R. Cochran, Douglas S. Jones, Mihalis S. Kariolis, Ping-Chuan Tsai
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/411,350 filed on November 8, 2010, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety. This application is also a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, itself a divisional of Australian Patent No. 2011326164 (being a national phase
application of PCT/US2011/059599), the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
                     STATEMENT OF GOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT
        This invention was made with Government support under contract CA151706
awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in this
invention.
                           REFERENCE TO SEQUENCE LISTING
         The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in
ASCII format via EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The
sequence listing was created 11/7/2011, has 61,440 bytes and is named "381593pct.txt".
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention relates to the field of protein engineering, and to the field of
knottin peptides, i.e. peptides with particularly well-defined scaffolds and high stability, also
referred to as cystine knot miniproteins in the art.
RELATED ART
        Presented below is background information on certain aspects of the present invention
as they may relate to technical features referred to in the detailed description, but not
necessarily described in detail. That is, individual parts or methods used in the present
invention may be described in greater detail in the materials discussed below, which materials
may provide further guidance to those skilled in the art for making or using certain aspects of
                                                  1

   the present invention as claimed. The discussion below should not be construed as an
   admission as to the relevance of the information to any claims herein or the prior art effect of
   the material described.
            Protein-protein interactions mediate nearly every process in living systems and gene
 5 duplication and recombination is believed to be critical to the evolution of protein function.
   Directed evolution is an invaluable tool for optimizing proteins, however, in vitro evolution
   strategies generally focus on directly engineering the active site or binding site of the protein
   of interest. There are limited examples harnessing the power of gene duplication and
   combination in the directed evolution of protein function.
 0          Specific molecular recognition events define the interactions between ligands and
   receptors in living systems. These interactions mediate a host of biological processes,
   highlighting the importance of molecular recognition in many physiological processes.
   Engineering molecular recognition has been widely used in the biotechnology arena to
   develop protein-based biosensors, imaging agents, and therapeutics candidates. Traditional
 5 approaches for engineering enhanced recognition focus on optimizing the specific interaction,
   for example enhancing antibody recognition or affinity maturation of native protein-protein
   interactions. In nature, however, molecular recognition often occurs at the interface of
   multiple domains, and the linkage of protein domains through gene recombination is believed
   to play a strong role in the evolution of protein function. There are few instances in the
.0 literature of this approach being used to engineer protein function in vitro. Examples that do
   exist are limited to either evolving a completely synthetic interaction or optimizing a protein
   peptide interaction. In the same way that traditional directed evolution studies have provided
   insights into the natural evolution of proteins, harnessing nature's approach of domain
   addition and evolution would provide new avenues to explore natural evolution pathways.
,5 Further analysis of domain addition and evolution, focusing on enhancing an existing high
   affinity protein-protein interaction, would provide a rigorous test of the utility of this
   approach for the study of molecular recognition and for use as a protein engineering tool.
   SPECIFIC PATENTS AND PUBLICATIONS
            Knottins are described in the knottin database, http(colon slash slash)
;0 knottin.cbs.cnrs.fr/ Knottins.php, which provides sequences and structures of various knottin
   peptides.
            US 7,674,881 to Kent, et al., issued March 9, 2010, entitled "Convergent synthesis of
   proteins by kinetically controlled ligation," describes the synthesis of EETI-II.

            Liu US 5,468,634, entitled "Axi oncogene", discloses isolated DNA sequences
   encoding a mammalian axl receptor which exhibits axl oncogene activity.
            US 2009/0257952 to Cochran et al., published October 15, 2009, entitled "Engineered
   Integrin Binding Peptides," discloses engineered peptides that bind with high affinity (low
 5 equilibrium dissociation constant (KD)) to the cell surface receptors of fibronectin (alpha 5
   betal integrin) or vitronectin (alpha v beta 3 and alpha v beta 5 integrins).
                             BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            The following brief summary is not intended to include all features and aspects of the
 0 present invention, nor does it imply that the invention must include all features and aspects
   discussed in this summary. For the sake of brevity, it is to be understood that certain features
   of different embodiments may be combined, even though such alternative combinations or
   subcombinations are not explicitly recited.
            Thus, in certain aspects, the present invention comprises (a) a knottin polypeptide
 5 having therein a binding loop for binding to a first target; and (b) a second polypeptide
   having therein a sequence for binding to a second target, said second polypeptide being either
   (i) a cell surface receptor binding to said second target or (ii) a cell surface receptor ligand.
   binding to said second target. As is known in knottins, binding loops are typically between
   constrained cysteine residues. These loops may be altered by preparing a library of
.0 randomized sequences. In this aspect, the knottin polypeptide contains a non-native sequence
   in its binding loop. That is, the sequence is not normally present in the knottin; preferably it
   has been selected by a screening procedure for high binding. In certain aspects of the
   invention, the fusion protein will contain a non-native sequence mediates attachment
   between a cell and the tissues surrounding it. In certain aspects of the invention, the knottin
,5 polypeptide contains a sequence that mediates binding to one or more of (a) alpha v beta 3
   integrin, (b) and alpha v beta 5 integrin, and (c) alpha 5 beta 1 integrin. In certain aspects of
   the invention, the fusion protein comprises a second polypeptide which is an extracellular
   domain of a receptor tyrosine kinase. In certain aspects of the invention, the second
   polypeptide is a receptor tyrosine kinase Ig I domain. In certain aspects of the invention, the
;0 Ig I domain is from Axl, MuSK, or the FGF receptor. In certain aspects of the invention, the
   receptor tyrosine kinase is an Axl receptor. In certain aspects of the invention, the knottin
   polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of EETI-II, AgRP, and agatoxin. In certain
   aspects of the invention, the fusion protein has a binding loop domain is engineered to bind to
   one of a501 integrin, av 3 integrin, or av 5 integrin.

           In certain aspects of the invention, the fusion protein comprises (a) an EETI-II or
   AgRP knottin polypeptide comprising a binding loop with high affinity to an integrin; and
   (b) a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of (i) an Axi extracellular domain and
 5 (ii) NK1 fragment of hepatocyte growth factor.
           Certain aspects of the invention comprise a method for preparing a fusion protein,
   comprising the steps of: (a) preparing a library having a number of DNA constructs encoding
   the fusion protein and a number of randomized DNA sequences within the DNA constructs;
   (b) expressing the DNA constructs in the library in yeast, wherein expressed DNA constructs
 0 are displayed as polypeptides with randomized sequences on the yeast surface; (c) screening
   the clones for binding of the expressed DNA constructs to the first target or the second target
   by contacting the clones with a target; (d) selecting clones that express translated DNA
   constructs that bind with high affinity to the target; and (e) obtaining the coding sequences of
   the selected clones, whereby said fusion protein may be prepared.
 5         Certain aspects of the invention comprise a method for inhibiting binding of a ligand
   to a receptor, comprising the steps of: (a) administering an amount of a soluble fusion protein
   comprising (i) a polypeptide encoding an extracellular domain of a receptor to be inhibited
   and (ii) a knottin polypeptide having a loop domain engineered to bind to a cell surface
   receptor that is not the receptor to be inhibited.
.0         In certain aspects of the various methods, the tyrosine kinase may be a TAM receptor
   tyrosine kinase.
           In certain aspects, the present invention comprises a method for preparing a
   bispecific, or multispecific, fusion protein that contains an engineered knottin portion and
   another binding portion that, preferably, is a receptor, receptor ligand, or a fragment thereof
,5 having the binding property of the native molecule. The fusion protein thus prepared has two
   different binding portions, and two separate ligands. The knottin portion is fused at its C
   terminus to the N terminus of the binding portion. Alternatively, it may be fused at its N
   terminus to the C terminus of the binding portion.
           In certain aspects, the present invention comprises a method for preparing a fusion
;0 protein comprising a first polypeptide that binds to a first binding partner (e.g. a receptor or
   receptor ligand) fused to a second polypeptide (e.g. a knottin) having a loop domain
   engineered to bind with high affinity to a second binding partner, comprising the steps of: (a)
   preparing a library having a number of DNA constructs encoding the fusion protein and a
   number of randomized loop domains, wherein the library provides a degree of variation of

   binding and a number of tight binders to be selected from the library; (b) expressing the DNA
   constructs in the library as protein variants; (c) screening the library for binding of the protein
   variants to the second binding partner; (d) selecting clones that express DNA constructs that
   bind with high affinity to the second binding partner; and (e) obtaining the coding sequences
 5 of the selected clones, whereby said fusion protein may be prepared. The second binding
   partner selected may be an entirely different molecule (protein, glycoprotein,
   polysaccharaide, lipid, cell structure, viral epitope etc.) or it may be a different epitope on the
   binding site for the first binding partner (receptor or receptor ligand). In certain aspects, the
   present invention utilizes a first polypeptide that is a receptor fragment. For example, a cell
 0 surface receptor having various domains is used in the form of a fragment encoding an
   extracellular ligand binding domain. The cell surface receptor may be a receptor tyrosine
   kinase. In certain aspects of the invention, the first polypeptide may be a receptor ligand, or a
   fragment of such a ligand that binds to a receptor. The ligand may be an agonist or an
   antagonist. The first polypeptide may have a sequence which is at least a portion of a
 5 sequence selected from the group consisting of Axl, c-Met, HGF, VEGF, VEGF receptor, and
   Gas6.
           In certain aspects of the present invention, the second polypeptide is a knottin scaffold
   and may be selected from the group consisting of EETI-I, AgRP, and agatoxin. It is also
   contemplated that the knottin scaffold may be co-conotoxin. In certain aspects of the present
.0 invention, the knottin loop domain is engineered to bind to an integrin. In certain aspects of
   the present invention, the method comprises cloning a random yeast display library having
   loop portions that are selected for binding to the target of interest.
           In certain aspects, the present invention comprises a fusion protein comprising a
 5 receptor ligand polypeptide, said receptor ligand binding to a receptor at a specific receptor
   binding site, fused to a knottin polypeptide having a loop domain engineered to bind with
   high affinity to a binding partner that is not the specific receptor binding site for the receptor
   ligand. In certain aspects of the present invention, the receptor ligand polypeptide is a
   fragment of a native ligand. In certain aspects of the present invention, the fusion protein
;0 comprises a fragment that is a fragment of a growth factor, such as an NK1 fragment of
   hepatocyte growth factor, which consists of the HGF amino terminus through the first kringle
   domain.
           Certain aspects of the present invention comprise a fusion protein comprising a
   receptor polypeptide, said receptor binding to a ligand at a specific ligand binding site, fused

   to a knottin polypeptide having a loop domain engineered to bind with high affinity to a
   binding partner that is not the specific ligand binding site. The receptor may be is a receptor
   tyrosine kinase. The receptor tyrosine kinase may be selected from the group consisting of
   Ax1, a receptor tyrosine kinase involved in solid tumor progression and MET, which is the
 5 hepatocyte growth factor receptor. It may include closely receptor tyrosine kinases closely
   related to Axl, such as Tyro-3 and Mer.
           In certain aspects of the present invention the fusion protein comprises a knottin
   polypeptide selected from the group consisting of EETI-II, AgRP, and agatoxin. In certain
   aspects of the present invention, the fusion protein comprises a loop domain engineered to
 0 bind to one of U5   1 integrin, Uv3 3 integrin, or Uv35 integrin. In certain aspects of the present
   invention, the loop domain is engineered to bind to a       03 integrin. In certain aspects of the
   present invention, the loop domain is engineered to bind to an av or        03 integrin subunit.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5         Figure 1A is a schematic drawing of the Axl extracellular domain.
           Figure 1B is a ribbon rendering of an EETI-II crystal structure.
           Figure IC is a schematic drawing of the Axl-EETI-II fusion bound to the Gas6
   ligand.
           Figure ID is a representation of the EETI-II-axl fusion library creation and the
.0 screening to obtain fusions EA 7.01, 7.03, 7.05, 8.04 and 8.05. Both loops 1 and 2 can be
   seen to be randomized; only a portion of the Axll IgI sequence is represented. The sequences
   are truncated due to the length of the Axl IgI portion.
           Figure 2A is a schematic drawing of the yeast display construct.
           Figure 2B is a set of scatter plots showing comparison of binding by wild-type Axl
,5 Ig 1 and the starting E-Axl library
           Figure 3 is a set of scatter plots of results of EA-Axl library screening and sort
   progression.
           Figure 4 is a graph that shows equilibrium binding of wild-type Axl IgI, wild-type
   EETI-Axl, and EA ("EETI-II-Axl") mutants to Gas6. Representative data of experiments
;0 performed in triplicate on separate days.

           Figure 5 is a graph that shows kinetic dissociation of wild-type Axi IgI or EA
   mutants from soluble Gas6. Wild-type Axi Ig I was well fit by a single exponential decay
   model, while EA mutants had to be fit with a double-exponential decay model.
   Representative data of experiments performed in triplicate on separate days.
 5         Figures 6A, 6B and 6C is a series of graphs that shows the contribution of individual
   loops in EA mutants. Reversion to wild-type for (6A) EA 7.01, (6B) EA 7.06, (6C) EA 8.04.
   wtL1 or wtL3 refers to wild-type EETI-II loop sequence for loop 1 or loop 3, respectively.
   Persistent binding for wtEETI-Axl is shown on each plot for reference and represents
   "reversion" of both loops 1 and loop 3 to wild-type EETI-II sequence. Data is average of
 0 experiments performed on three separate days, error bars are ± std. dev.
           Figure 7A and 7B is a pair of bar graphs that shows the binding of surface displayed
   AgRP-Aras4 fusion protein against soluble av03 integrin and Met protein compared with
   AgRP7A and NK1 mutant Aras4.
           Figure 8 is a line graph that shows binding titrations of the fusion protein, AgRP7A
 5 Aras4 to cells that express av03 integrin and Met receptor.
           Figure 9A and 9B are a pair of graphs showing binding to Gas 6 (9A) and alpha v
   beta 3 integrin (9B) of a Axl-EETI direct fusion protein.
           Figure 10 is a graph that shows the inhibition of PC3 tumor cell adhesion to
   microtiter plates coated with vitronectin. Knottin 2.5F-Fc and 2.5D-Fc (knottin-integrin
.0 fused to Fc portions) inhibit PC3 cell adhesion with concentrations in the low nanomolar
   range. Negative control is an irrelevant protein.
            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   OVERVIEW
 5         The present invention comprises the creation of novel fusion proteins that include an
   engineered knottin peptide fused to a second, different peptide or protein which provides a
   different binding function. The second polypeptide is a receptor or a receptor ligand.
   Preferably, a portion of the knottin peptide is replaced with a sequence that has been created
   for binding to an integrin. In addition, the fusion proteins may comprise a knottin peptide
;0 fused to another protein where the other protein facilitates proper expression and folding of
   the knottin.

           The present invention may be used to enhance receptor ligand binding. Native
   proteins involved in ligand-receptor interactions are promising starting points for engineering
   therapeutic candidates. Traditional approaches to engineering protein-protein interactions
   have focused on optimizing an existing interaction. In nature, however, protein-protein
 5 interactions often occur at the junction of multiple domains and gene recombination plays a
   strong role in the evolution of protein function. Using these observations, we have developed
   a general approach to engineering existing protein-protein interactions we refer to as "domain
   addition and evolution" in which enhancement is accomplished by expanding the binding
   interface through the addition and subsequent in vitro evolution of a synthetic binding
 0 domain.
           Figure 1 shows that the present fusions in effect add another epitope for receptor
   ligand binding. Fig. 1A shows that the Axl extracellular domain contains two
   immunoglobulin-like domains (Ig I and Ig2), followed by two fibronectin type-III like (Fn)
   domains. Fig. 1B shows EETI-II crystal structure (PDB ID: 2ETI). Loops 1 and 3, which
 5 were randomized for domain addition and evolution library, are shown in black. Cysteines I
   - VI are noted. Fig. IC is a schematic showing domain addition strategy. EETI-II mutant
   library is linked to the N-terminus of Axl IgI (black ribbons to the bottom left of the
   structure) to screen for EETI-II mutants that bind to an adjacent epitope on the Gas6 ligand.
   Axl-Gas6 structure adapted from PDB ID: 2C5D. Fig. ID shows a listing of amino acid
.0 sequences that show the EETI-II loop 1 and loop 3 regions that were randomized and the
   fusion to the Axl IgI domain. Figure was generated using PyMol.
           Figure 2A and 2B shows the yeast display construct and evaluation of starting E-Axl
   library EETI-II mutants (randomized loops) linked to Axl. (2A) Yeast-displayed E-Axl
   construct. The protein of interest is expressed as a genetic fusion to the yeast Aga2 protein,
,5 which is disulfide bonded to the yeast Agal protein. The Agal protein is covalently linked to
   the yeast cell wall, thereby tethering the entire display construct to the yeast cell surface. The
   use of Agal and Aga2 proteins in yeast display has been previously described in connection
   with surface display of antibodies. See, e.g. US patent 6423538 entitled "Yeast cell surface
   display of proteins and uses thereof," by K. Dane Wittrup et al.
 0         The HA and c-myc epitope tags flanking the protein of interest can be stained for
   relative yeast surface expression levels using commercially available antibodies (c-myc
   staining shown for reference). Soluble Gas6 can be used to test binding to the yeast
   displayed protein; Gas6 binding is illuminated with a fluorescently labeled antibody against

   the hexahistidine tag (SEQ ID NO: 77) on Gas6. Fig. 2B presents scatter plots showing
   comparison of binding by wild-type Axl Igi and the starting E-Axl library.
   I. Knottin fusions having bispecific or multispecific binding
            In certain aspects, the present invention comprises fusion proteins that are bispecific
 5 or multispecific in that they can bind to and/or inhibit two or more receptors or receptor
   ligands for increased therapeutic efficacy. These fusions may comprise N-terminal or C
   terminal knottins engineered to contain, as one example, an integrin-binding portion. Integrin
   binding knottins are described in US 2009/0257952 by Cochran et al. entitled "Engineered
   Integrin Binding Peptides." Engineered peptides that bind with high affinity (low
 0 equilibrium dissociation constant (KD)) to the cell surface receptors of fibronectin (U5     1
   integrin) or vitronectin (av   3 and av0 5 integrins) are disclosed. Knottins with novel binding
   properties may be fused to generate hetero-oligomeric bispecific proteins. This application is
   incorporated herein by reference, as provided in the concluding paragraph hereof, and may be
   consulted further for descriptions of integrin-binding knottins. The specific integrin binding
 5 partner used here may be specific as to both alpha and beta integrin chains, or only to a beta
   chain. In the latter case, the integrin binding will be multispecific in that different alpha -beta
   integrin combinations will exist.
            For example, an integrin-binding knottin - ligand fusion has been created using a
   fragment of a growth factor, NKl. The integrin binding knottin contains a loop that has been
 0 engineered to bind specifically to a selected integrin, such as u5 1, uvJ3, and avJ5, particularly
   a40 3 integrins. NKl is a fragment of the polypeptide growth factor HGF/SF which acts as
   agonist of the MET receptor. It is described more fully in US 2004/0236073 Al by Gherardi,
   entitled "Nkl fragment of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (hgf/sf) and variants
   thereof, and their use." Briefly, HGF/SF has a unique domain structure that resembles that of
 5 the blood proteinase precursor plasminogen and consists of six domains: an N-terminal (N)
   domain, homologous to plasminogen activation peptide, four copies of the kringle (K)
   domain and a catalytically inactive serine proteinase domain. Two products of alternative
   splicing of the primary HGF/SF transcript encode NKl, a fragment containing the N and the
   first K domain, Ki, and NK2, a fragment containing the N, Ki and second kringle, K2,
;0 domains. The sequence may be found in Mol Cell Biol, March 1998, p. 1275-1283, Vol. 18,
   No. 3.

           As another example, an integrin binding knottin - receptor fusion was prepared using
   Axl. The Axi receptor is described in US 5468634 to Liu. Briefly, Axi is a receptor tyrosine
   kinase with a structure of the extracellular region that juxtaposes IgL and FNIII repeats. It is
   involved in the stimulation of cell proliferation. It can bind to the vitamin K-dependent
 5 protein Gas6, thereby transducing signals into the cytoplasm. The extracellular domain of
   Axl can be cleaved and a soluble extracellular domain of 65 kDa can be released. Cleavage
   enhances receptor turnover, and generates a partially activated kinase (O'Bryan J P, Fridell Y
   W, Koski R, Varnum B, Liu E T. (1995) J Biol Chem. 270(2):551-557). However, the
   function of the cleaved domain is unknown.
 0         The Axl receptor has two Gas6 binding sites (Figure 1A): a major, high affinity site
   located in its Ig I domain, and a weaker minor site in its Ig2 domain. An active 2:2 signaling
   complex is formed when Gas6 associates with Axl via its high affinity site, after which
   association through the weak binding site results in receptor dimerization and activation.
   This is a therapeutically relevant ligand-receptor system as Axl overexpression results in
 5 invasion and metastasis in a range of cancer cell lines and inhibition of Axl signaling
   suppresses tumor cell migration and metastasis. The bispecific protein generated binds with
   high affinity to integrins and the Axl ligand Gas6. Fig. 1 shows that the sequences represent
   an outline of domain addition and evolution library generation and screening; first row shows
   the wild-type EETI-JI sequence with cysteine bonds and loops between cysteines; second row
.0 shows loops 1 and 3 where x residues are added; loops 1 and 3 of EETI-JI are randomized to
   generate the loop library and fused to the N-terminus of Axl Ig 1; third row shows sequences
   of EETI-II-axl fusion mutants EA 7.01, EA 7.06, and EA 8.04; bottom row lists sequences
   from identification of a PGM, or P-G/T-M/K motif.
           The Axl amino acid sequence may be found in NCBI UniGene 26362, and Genbank
 5 Accession Number P30530.
           In another aspect of the present invention, the receptor or other fusion protein fused to
   the knottin, is also modified and mutated for binding purposes, in addition to being fused to a
   knottin that is mutated for binding purposes. This is shown in Example 6. In this
   embodiment, the receptor, which is to be used as a decoy, is first truncated to an extracellular
;0 domain. In the case of Axl, a portion of the signal peptide and a small portion of the
   extracellular domain (about 110 amino acids from the extracellular domain of about 426
   amino acids were used). Using error-prone DNA amplification, mutations are introduced into
   the DNA sequence encoding the receptor fragment. The resulting clones are screened for

   binding to the native ligand (Gas6 in the case of Axi), and tighter binders are selected, e.g. by
   cell sorting. A variety of receptor constructs could be used.
           This knottin-Axl fusion can function as a bispecific or multispecific molecule capable
   of concurrently antagonizing both integrin binding as well as the native Gas6/Axl
 5 interactions. Gas6 is a soluble ligand whereas the integrins are cell surface receptors,
   allowing both targets to be bound at the same time. Binding of Gas6 will sequester the
   soluble ligand, preventing it from associating with, and subsequently activating endogenous
   Axl receptor. Binding to integrin receptors will prevent them from binding to extracellular
   matrix proteins.
 0         The fusion of an integrin-binding peptide to a growth receptor or a signal transducing
   receptor such as a receptor tyrosine kinase is advantageous in that there is significant cross
   talk between integrin and growth factor receptor pathways. For example, strong cross-talk
   exists between integrins and Met receptor. An agent that targets both receptors will be better
   at inhibiting angiogenesis and metastasis. Integrin targeting by means of a fusion of a
 5 therapeutic protein and an integrin-binding knottin can also localize the second therapeutic
   agent to the tumor cells, increasing efficacy through avidity effects. Moreover, an imaging
   agent that can target two tumor receptors would generate an increased signal and can detect
   smaller tumors for earlier detection.
           Knottin-Fc fusions
 0         Another example (see Example 12) of a fusion protein as described herein is a fusion
   between an integrin binding knottin and an Fc portion of a mouse antibody. The Fc portion of
   an antibody is formed by the two carboxy terminal domains of the two heavy chains that
   make up an immunoglobin molecule. The IgG molecule contains 2 heavy chains (-50 kDa
   each) and 2 light chains (-25 kDa each). The general structure of all antibodies is very
 5 similar, a small region at the tip of the protein is extremely variable, allowing millions of
   antibodies with slightly different tip structures to exist. This region is known as the
   hypervariable region (Fab). The other fragment contains no antigen-binding activity but was
   originally observed to crystallize readily, and for this reason was named the Fc fragment, for
   Fragment crystallizable. This fragment corresponds to the paired CH 2 and CH 3 domains and
;0 is the part of the antibody molecule that interacts with effector molecules and cells. The
   functional differences between heavy-chain isotypes lie mainly in the Fc fragment. The hinge
   region that links the Fc and Fab portions of the antibody molecule is in reality a flexible

   tether, allowing independent movement of the two Fab arms, rather than a rigid hinge. This
   has been demonstrated by electron microscopy of antibodies bound to haptens. Thus the
   present fusion proteins can be made to contain two knottin peptides, one on each arm of the
   antibody fragment.
 5         The Fc portion varies between antibody classes (and subclasses) but is identical
   within that class. The C-terminal end of the heavy chains form the Fc region. The Fc region
   plays an important role as a receptor binding portion. The Fc portion of antibodies will bind
   to Fc receptors in two different ways. For example, after IgG and IgM bind to a pathogen by
   their Fab portion their Fc portions can bind to receptors on phagocytic cells (like
 0 macrophages) inducing phagocytosis.
           The present knottin-Fc fusions can be implemented such that the Fc portion is used to
   provide dual binding capability, and/or for half-life extension, for improving expression
   levels, etc.
 5 II. Knottin fusions used to improve li2and receptor binding
           In this aspect of the present invention, a library of knottins having a randomized loop
   and fused to a receptor is screened and used as a platform to create improved ligand binding.
   As one example, an EETI library was fused to Axl, and this library was screened to isolate
   EETI-Axl binders with increased affinity to Gas6 ligand. Thus, knottins may be fused with
 0 an existing ligand (or receptor) as a general platform for increasing the affinity of a ligand
   receptor interaction.
           Here we show the potential for the engineering of proteins through the addition and
   subsequent optimization of a synthetic knottin binding domain. To demonstrate the power of
   this approach, we enhance a native high affinity (single-digit nanomolar) protein-protein
 5 interaction to subnanomolar levels using a single round of directed evolution. Through this
   work we also demonstrate that two structurally adjacent loops on the surface of the Ecballium
   elaterium trypsin inhibitor II (EETI-JI) knottin can be simultaneously engineered to form a
   binding face towards an exogenous target. That is, a receptor and ligand may bind or be
   made to bind at an additional surface by engineering of a loop on a fused knottin, and/or
;0 engineering a loop in the receptor or ligand itself. This work demonstrates the potential for
   harnessing the natural evolutionary process of gene duplication and combination for

   laboratory evolution studies and should be broadly applicable to the study and optimization
   of protein function.
           The domain addition and evolution strategy is a broad-based strategy for enhancing
   affinity of existing protein-protein interactions. A synthetic binding domain can be fused to
 5 the N- or C-terminus of a binding protein and subsequently evolved to enhance affinity to the
   binding partner by binding to an adjacent epitope. We also envision application in
   identification of binding proteins from "naive" libraries. By "naive" we mean libraries based
   off of proteins with no native binding affinity towards the target, e.g. the EETI-II knottin
   exhibits no native binding affinity towards Gas6. An additional application of this approach
 0 includes identification of binding proteins from naive libraries. EETI-II peptides engineered
   for binding tumor targets hold significant promise for in vivo molecular imaging applications.
   However, identification of binding proteins from naive libraries is challenging, in part due to
   the requirement that the affinity of the identified protein must be high enough for detection.
   For example, in yeast surface display binding affinities in the single-digit PM range are
 5 below the limits of detection and such proteins will generally not be enriched during library
   sorting. Domain addition and evolution can be used as an "anchoring" strategy, enabling
   identification of synthetic binding domains that enhance an existing interaction, but in
   isolation may themselves possess affinity below the limits of detection. In the example
   below, the EETI-II mutants developed here exhibit weak binding affinity towards Gas6 that
.0 are below the limits of detection when the knottin mutants are expressed in the absence of
   Axl. Subsequent affinity maturation through traditional strategies or further domain addition
   and evolution can be used to generate fully synthetic binding agents with high affinity.
   III. Knottin fusions to enhance expression of folded, functional knottin proteins
           Knottin peptides may be difficult to obtain in properly folded form. Chemical
,5 synthesis and refolding of peptides may be done, but requires extensive optimization. This
   problem can be mitigated by fusing the knottin to a protein. For example, EETI-II 2.5D
   (described below) could not be solubly expressed in yeast. However, when fused to Axl, a
   high yield of folded, functional knottin -Axl fusion was obtained. A protease cleavage site
   was introduced between EETI-II 2.5D and Axl to cut off the fusion partner. This is a general
;0 strategy where any fusion partner can be used for the expression, or it can be part of making a
   bispecific protein as described above.

           This will also have implications for fusing modifying domains, such as Fc, human
   serum albumin, etc. to increase half-life for therapeutic applications.
           By fusing a difficult to express knottin to a well-expressed protein, yields can be
   improved. A protease recognition sequence is inserted between the knottin and the fusion
 5 partner. This is exemplified below in Example 7.
   DEFINITIONS
           Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
   meaning as commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
   belongs. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can
 0 be used in the practice or testing of the present invention, the preferred methods and materials
   are described. Generally, nomenclatures utilized in connection with, and techniques of, cell
   and molecular biology and chemistry are those well known and commonly used in the art.
   Certain experimental techniques, not specifically defined, are generally performed according
   to conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various general and more
 5 specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present specification. For
   purposes of clarity, the following terms are defined below.
           The term "effective amount" means an amount of a fusion protein of the present
   invention that is capable of modulating binding of an engineered peptide to a cognate binding
   partner. The effective amount will depend on the route of administration and the condition of
.0 the patient.
           "Pharmaceutically acceptable" is meant to encompass any carrier, which does not
   interfere with the effectiveness of the biological activity of the active ingredient and that is
   not toxic to the host to which is administered. For example, for parenteral administration, the
   above active ingredients may be formulated in unit dosage form for injection in vehicles such
,5 as saline, dextrose solution, serum albumin and Ringer's solution.
           The term "knottin protein" means a structural family of small proteins, typically 25
   40 amino acids, which bind to a range of molecular targets like proteins, sugars and lipids.
   Their three-dimensional structure is essentially defined by a peculiar arrangement of three to
   five disulfide bonds. A characteristic knotted topology with one disulfide bridge crossing the
;0 macro-cycle limited by the two other intra-chain disulfide bonds, which was found in several
   different microproteins with the same cysteine network, lent its name to this class of
   biomolecules. Although their secondary structure content is generally low, the knottins share

   a small triple-stranded antiparallel P-sheet, which is stabilized by the disulfide bond
   framework. Biochemically well-defined members of the knottin family, also called cysteine
   knot proteins, include the trypsin inhibitor EETI-II from Ecballium elaterium seeds, the
   neuronal N-type Ca2+ channel blocker co-conotoxin from the venom of the predatory cone
 5 snail Conus geographus, agouti-related protein (AgRP, See Millhauser et al., "Loops and
   Links: Structural Insights into the Remarkable Function of the Agouti-Related Protein," Ann.
   N.Y. Acad. Sci., June 1, 2003; 994(1): 27 - 35), the omega agatoxin family, etc. A suitable
   agatoxin sequence is given in US 2009/0257952, having a common inventor with the present
   application. Another agatoxin sequence is given at GenBank@ Accession number P37045,
 0 Omega-agatoxin-Aa4b; P81744, Omega-agatoxin-Aa3b, etc. Other knottin sequences may
   be found at GenBank@ Accession number FJ601218.1, knottin [Bemisia tabaci]; Genbank
   Accession number P85079, Omega-lycotoxin; and Genbank Accessioin number AAB34917,
   mu-O conotoxin MrVIA=voltage-gated sodium channel blocker.
            Conotxins generally consist of peptides which are 10-30 residues in length. A
 5 specific example is PRIALT@ ziconotide, a synthetic equivalent of a naturally occurring
   conopeptide found in the piscivorous marine snail, Conus magus. Ziconotide, which is a 25
   amino acid, polybasic peptide containing three disulfide bridges with a molecular weight of
   2639 daltons and a molecular formula of C 10 2H172N 36 O3 2S 7.
            Knottin proteins have a characteristic disulfide linked structure. This structure is also
.0 illustrated in Gelly et al., "The KNOTTIN website and database: a new information system
   dedicated to the knottin scaffold," Nucleic Acids Research, 2004, Vol. 32, Database issue
   D156-D159. A triple-stranded B-sheet is present in many knottins. The cysteines involved in
   the knot are shown as connected by lines in Figure ID indicating which Cys residues are
   linked to each other. The spacing between Cys residues is important in the present invention,
,5 as is the molecular topology and conformation of the engineered loop. The engineered loop
   may contain RGD to provide an integrin binding loop. These attributes are critical for high
   affinity integrin binding. The RGD mimic loop is inserted between knottin Cys residues, but
   the length of the loop must be adjusted for optimal integrin binding depending on the three
   dimensional spacing between those Cys residues. For example, if the flanking Cys residues
 0 are linked to each other, the optimal loop may be shorter than if the flanking Cys residues are
   linked to Cys residues separated in primary sequence. Otherwise, particular amino acid
   substitutions can be introduced that constrain a longer RGD-containing loop into an optimal
   conformation for high affinity integrin binding.

            The present knottin proteins may contain certain modifications made to truncate the
   knottin, or to remove a loop or unnecessary cysteine residue or disulfide bond.
            The term "amino acid" includes both naturally-occurring and synthetic amino acids
   and includes both the D and L form of the acids as well as the racemic form. More
 5 specifically, amino acids contain up to ten carbon atoms. They may contain an additional
   carboxyl group, and heteroatoms such as nitrogen and sulfur. Preferably the amino acids are
   a and -amino acids. The term a-amino acid refers to amino acids in which the amino group
   is attached to the carbon directly attached to the carboxyl group, which is the a-carbon. The
   term    -amino acid refers to amino acids in which the amino group is attached to a carbon one
 0 removed from the carboxyl group, which is the       -carbon. The amino acids described here are
   referred to in standard IUPAC single letter nomenclature, with "X" meaning any amino acid.
            The term "EETI" means Protein Data Bank Entry (PDB) 2ETI. Its entry in the
   Knottin database is EETI-II. It has the sequence
   GC PRILMRCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG. (SEQ ID NO: 1)
 5 Full length EETI-II has a 30 amino acid sequence with a final proline at position 30:
              1 GCPRILMR CKQDSDC LAGCVCGPNGFCGSP (SEQ ID NO: 2)
            Loops 1 and 3 are in bold and underlined. These loops can also be varied and affect
   binding efficiency, as is demonstrated below. Other loops may be varied without affecting
.0 binding efficiency.
            The term "AgRP" means PDB entry IHYK. Its entry in the Knottin database is
   SwissProt AGRPHUMAN, where the full-length sequence of 129 amino acids may be
   found. It comprises the sequence beginning at amino acid 87. An additional G is added to
   this construct. It also includes a C105A mutation described in Jackson, et al. 2002
,5 Biochemistry, 41, 7565.
            GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPCATCYCRFFNAFCYCR-KLGTAMNPCSRT
   (SEQ ID NO: 3)
            The dashed portion shows a fragment omitted in the "mini" version, below. The bold
   and underlined portion, from loop 4, is replaced by the RGD sequences described below.
;0 Loops 1 and 3 are shown between brackets below:

   GC[VRLHES]CLGQQVPCC[DPCAT]CYCRFFNAFCYCR-KLGTAMNPCSRT                                     (SEQ ID
   NO: 3)
           The term "mini" in reference to AgRP means PDB entry 1MRO. It is also SwissProt
 5 AGRPHUMAN. It has the sequence, similar to that given above,
   GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYCRFFNAFCYCR (SEQ ID NO: 4)
   where the underlined "A" represents an amino acid substitution which eliminates a possible
   dimer forming cystine. (Cystine herein refers to the single amino acid; cysteine to the
   dimer.). The bold and underlined portion, from loop 4, is replaced by the below described
 0 RGD sequences.
           The term "agatoxin" means omega agatoxin PDB 10MB and the SwissProt entry in
   the knottin database TOG4B_AGEAP. It has the sequence
   EDN--CIAEDYGKCTWGGTKCCRGRPCRCSMIGTNCECT-PRLIMEGLSFA                                     (SEQ ID
   NO: 5)
 5         The dashes indicate portions of the peptide omitted for the "mini" agatoxin. An
   additional glycine is added to the N-terminus of the mini-construct. The bold and underlined
   portion is replaced by the below described RGD sequences.
           The term "loop domain" refers to an amino acid subsequence within a peptide chain
   that has no ordered secondary structure, and resides generally on the surface of the peptide.
 0 The term "loop" is understood in the art as referring to secondary structures that are not
   ordered as in the form of an alpha helix, beta sheet, etc.
           The term "substantial identity" in the context of a peptide indicates that a peptide
   comprises a sequence with at least 70% sequence identity to a reference sequence, preferably
   80%, more preferably 85%, most preferably at least 90% or at least 95% sequence identity to
,5 the reference sequence over a specified comparison window, which in this case is either the
   entire peptide, a molecular scaffold portion, or a binding loop portion (-9- 11 residues).
   Preferably, optimal alignment is conducted using the homology alignment algorithm of
   Needleman and Wunsch (1970) J. Mol. Biol., 48:443 453. An indication that two peptide
   sequences are substantially identical is that one peptide is immunologically reactive with
;0 antibodies raised against the second peptide. Another indication for present purposes, that a
   sequence is substantially identical to a specific sequence explicitly exemplified is that the

   sequence in question will have an integrin binding affinity at least as high as the reference
   sequence. Thus, a peptide is substantially identical to a second peptide, for example, where
   the two peptides differ only by a conservative substitution. "Conservative substitutions" are
   well known, and exemplified, e.g., by the PAM 250 scoring matrix. Peptides that are
 5 "substantially similar" share sequences as noted above except that residue positions that are
   not identical may differ by conservative amino acid changes. As used herein, "sequence
   identity" or "identity" in the context of two nucleic acid or polypeptide sequences makes
   reference to the residues in the two sequences that are the same when aligned for maximum
   correspondence over a specified comparison window. When percentage of sequence identity
 0 is used in reference to proteins it is recognized that residue positions which are not identical
   often differ by conservative amino acid substitutions, where amino acid residues are
   substituted for other amino acid residues with similar chemical properties (e.g., charge or
   hydrophobicity) and therefore do not change the functional properties of the molecule. When
   sequences differ in conservative substitutions, the percent sequence identity may be adjusted
 5 upwards to correct for the conservative nature of the substitution. Sequences that differ by
   such conservative substitutions are said to have "sequence similarity" or "similarity." Means
   for making this adjustment are well known to those of skill in the art. Typically this involves
   scoring a conservative substitution as a partial rather than a full mismatch, thereby increasing
   the percentage sequence identity. Thus, for example, where an identical amino acid is given
 0 a score of 1 and a non-conservative substitution is given a score of zero, a conservative
   substitution is given a score between zero and 1. The scoring of conservative substitutions is
   calculated, e.g., as implemented in the NIH Multiple alignment workshop
   (http://helixweb.nih.gov/multi-align/). Three-dimensional tools may also be used for
   sequence comparison.
 5          As used herein, "percentage of sequence identity" means the value determined by
   comparing two optimally aligned sequences over a comparison window, wherein the portion
   of the polynucleotide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or
   deletions (i.e., gaps) as compared to the reference sequence (which does not comprise
   additions or deletions) for optimal alignment of the two sequences. The percentage is
;0 calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid base or
   amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions,
   dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of
   comparison, and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity.

           The term "receptor tyrosine kinase" is used in its customary sense; examples are
   given below. The term "TAM receptor tyrosine kinase" refers to the TAM family of receptor
   kinases, including tyro3, Axl and MerTK. These are characterized by a conserved sequence
   within the kinase domain and adhesion molecule-like extracellular domains, and are
 5 described further in Linger et al. "TAM receptor tyrosine kinases: biologic functions,
   signaling, and potential therapeutic targeting in human cancer," Adv Cancer Res.
   2008;100:35-83.
   GENERAL DESCRIPTION
   Engineering of knottin peptides
 0         An important feature of the present fusion proteins is that the knottin portion is used
   for specific binding to a predetermined ligand. The knottin binding is preferably engineered
   by replacing a native solvent exposed loop with a short (e.g. 5-12 amino acid) sequence that
   has been selected for binding to the predetermined ligand. The solvent-exposed (i.e. on the
   surface) loop will generally be anchored by disulfide-linked cysteine residues. The new, or
 5 replacement amino acid sequence is preferably obtained by randomizing codons in the loop
   portion, expressing the engineered peptide, and selecting the mutants with the highest binding
   to the predetermined ligand. This selection step may be repeated several times, taking the
   tightest binding proteins from the previous step and re-randomizing the loops.
           The EETI-JI knottin peptide contains a disulfide knotted topology and possesses
.0 multiple solvent-exposed loops that are amenable to mutagenesis. To evolve a binding
   interface with Gas6, we randomized the structurally adjacent loops 1 and 3. Fusion of this
   EETI-JI loop library directly to the Axl IgI N-terminus (shown in Fig. ID) did not perturb
   the native Gas6-Axl interaction, which thereby resulted in a background of tens of millions of
   single-digit nanomolar binders. The ability to isolate enhanced clones from such a
 5 background speaks to the power of yeast surface display and quantitative fluorescent
   activated cell sorting for protein engineering. Moreover, a starting library that does not suffer
   from loss-offunction differs with that of traditional directed evolution strategies, where
   random mutation to one of the binding partners often results in decreased function for the
   majority of the initial library. Retention of wild-type properties in the domain addition naive
;0 library sheds light on natural evolutionary landscapes, whereby domain addition and
   evolution in nature may allow for the evolution of protein function without the cost of
   decreased activity while exploring sequence space.

           A wide variety of knottin peptides may be used in the present fusion proteins. For
   example, when displayed on the yeast cell surface, the following mutants bind to UvP3
   integrin about 2-3x better than a mutant with the RGD sequence from fibronectin.
   Table 1: EETI sequences wherein the RGD motif (in italics in 1.4A) is found in the
5  insert at positions 4-6.
  identifier                           Sequence                               SEQ ID NO:
      1.4A                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 6)
               GCAEPRGDMPWTWCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG
      1.4B                                                                  (SEQ ID NO: 7)
               GCVGGRGDWSPKWCKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG
      1.4C     GCAELRGDRSYPECKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO: 8)
      1.4E     GCRLPRGDVPRPHCKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO: 9)
      1.4H      GCYPLRGDNPYAACKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                             (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   10)
      1.5B     GCTIGRGDWAPSECKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   11)
      1.5F     GCHPPRGDNPPVTCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   12)
     2.3A       GCPEPRGDNPPPSCKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                             (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   13)
     2.3B      GCLPPRGDNPPPSCKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   14)
     2.3C      GCHLGRGDWAPVGCKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   15)
     2.3D       GCNVGRGDWAPSECKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG                             (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   16)
     2.3E      GCFPGRGDWAPSSCKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   17)
      2.3F      GCPLPRGDNPPTECKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                             (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   18)
     2.3G       GCSEARGDNPRLSCKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                             (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   19)
     2.3H      GCLLGRGDWAPEACKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   20)
      2.31     GCHVGRGDWAPLKCKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   21)
      2.3J     GCVRGRGDWAPPSCKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   22)
     2.4A      GCLGGRGDWAPPACKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                              (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   23)

    2.4C        GCFVGRGDWAPLTCKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   24)
    2.4D        GCPVGRGDWSPASCKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   25)
    2.4E        GCPRPRGDNPPLTCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   26)
     2.4F       GCYQGRGDWSPSSCKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   27)
    2.4G        GCAPGRGDWAPSECKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   28)
     2.4J       GCVQGRGDWSPPSCKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   29)
    2.5A        GCHVGRGDWAPEECKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   30)
    2.5C        GCDGGRGDWAPPACKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   31)
    2.5D        GCPQGRGDWAPTSCKQDSDCRAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   32)
     2.5F       GCPRPRGDNPPLTCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   33)
    2.5H        GCPQGRGDWAPEWCKQDSDCPAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   34)
     2.5J       GCPRGRGDWSPPACKQDSDCQAGCVCGPNGFCG                            (SEQ ID NO:
                                                                                   35)
          The above engineered knottins contain the RGD binding loop and bind specifically to
  integrins, as described in copending application Ser. No. 12/418,376, filed 04/03/2009. As
  described there, these loops may be varied in the non-RGD residues to a certain degree
5 without affecting binding specificity and potency. For example, if three of the eleven residues
  were varied, one would have about 70% identity to 2.5D. The above engineered knottins
  have been shown to bind specifically to aV03, av05, and U51  integrins
          Another example of a knottin peptide engineered to bind to integrins is AgRP. Table
  2 below shows sequences of AgRP mutants isolated by flow cytometry and having an RGD
0 sequence and flanking residues in loop 4, as indicated by the bolded residues:
  Table 2: Sequences of additional AgRP mutants

              Clone                                         Loop 4 sequence
   7A (5E) (SEQ ID NO: 36)        GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYCSGRGDNDLVCYCR
      7B (SEQ ID NO: 37)          GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYCKGRGDARLQCYCR
      7E (SEQ ID NO: 38)          GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYCVGRGDDNLKCYCR
   7J (6B) (SEQ ID NO: 39)        GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYCEGRGDRDMKCYCR
      7C (SEQ ID NO: 76)          GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYC YGRGDNDLR
                                  CYCR
            Additional AgRP engineered knottins can be made as described in the above
   referenced US 2009/0257952 to Cochran et al. AgRP knottin fusions can be prepared using
   AgRP loops 1, 2 and 3, as well as loop 4 as exemplified above.
 5 Engineered knottin binding partners
            The engineered knottin is fused to another protein. The protein will to some extent
   enter into the design of the engineered knottin according to the present description. That is,
   the fusion partner and the knottin binding partner will have a logical relationship in that they
   are in the same biological pathway, they are directed to targets which may be brought
 0 together to improve a therapeutic result, etc.
            As exemplified below by an engineered knottin-tyrosine kinase receptor fusion, the
   fusion may be engineered to bind to a ligand for the tyrosine kinase. The fusion is
   administered and allowed to bind to the ligand, thereby acting as a decoy to prevent the
   native ligand from binding to the tyrosine kinase receptor. As further exemplified below, the
 5 entire tyrosine kinase receptor is not used; only portions that bind to a native ligand,
   preferably an agonist. In the case of Axl, the IgI and Ig2 portions of the Axl receptor that
   bind to the Gas6 ligand are used. Gas 6, growth arrest-specific 6) belongs to the family of
   plasma vitamin K-dependent proteins. Gas 6 shares high structural homology with an
   anticoagulant protein, but has growth factor-like properties through its interaction with
,0 receptor tyrosine kinases of the TAM family, tyro3, Axl and MerTK.
            Another example of an engineered knottin-protein fusion is one where the fusion
   partner is a growth factor or active fragment of a growth factor, and the knottin is engineered
   to bind to endothelial cells such as may be present in the vasculature or on tumors. This is
   exemplified by a knottin (AgRP) engineered to bind Uv3 3 integrins and a growth factor or
,5 growth factor fragment that binds to the Met receptor. Interaction between Uv3 3 integrin and
   extracellular matrix is crucial for endothelial cells sprouting from capillaries and for

   angiogenesis. Furthermore, integrin-mediated outside-in signals co-operate with growth
   factor receptors to promote cell proliferation and motility. As another example, Soldi et al.,
   "Role of alphav beta3 integrin in the activation of vascular endothelial growth factor
   receptor-2," The EMBO Journal (1999) 18, 882 - 892, reported that to determine a potential
 5 regulation of angiogenic inducer receptors by the integrin system, they investigated the
   interaction between av13 integrin and tyrosine kinase vascular endothelial growth factor
   receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) in human endothelial cells. Both the VEGF receptor and the Met
   receptor (also known as hepatocyte growth factor receptor) are receptor tyrosine kinases.
           Another example of binding partner selection is a fusion of an engineered knottin that
 0 binds to Uvf 3 integrin and NK1, a fragment of the polypeptide growth factor HGF/SF which
   acts as agonist of the MET receptor. As described below, NK1 was modified to create highly
   stable, more effective agonistic ligands, or modified to create highly stable, more effective
   antagonists.
   EETI-Axl fusions with a synthetic binding domain throughh domain addition)
 5         In the examples below, the Ecballium elaterium trypsin inhibitor II (EETI-JI) serves
   as a synthetic binding domain to increase binding of its fusion partner. EETI-JI is a member
   of the knottin family of peptides which contain a characteristic interwoven disulfide-bonded
   framework that provides exquisite stability properties (Figure 1B). The solvent exposed
   loops of EETI-JI are tolerant to mutagenesis and have previously been individually
 0 engineered for novel recognition properties. However, in the present work, two structurally
   adjacent loops in EETI-JI were concurrently randomized and the resulting library of EETI-JI
   mutants was fused to wt Axl Igi. Axl sequences are given in Entrez Gene Gene ID 558.
   This library was then screened to identify novel EETI-Axl fusions with enhanced Gas6
   binding affinity. That is, binding would occur through the Axl receptor and through the
 5 engineered loops. We identified mutants with sub-nanomolar affinity following a single
   round of directed evolution, wherein both engineered loops of the EETI-JI mutant contributed
   to the enhanced affinity towards Gas6 through the creation of a novel binding face. This work
   supports domain addition and evolution for enhancing protein function, and also supports the
   EETI-JI knottin as a scaffold for engineering novel recognition properties.
;0 Domain addition library design and synthesis
           To enhance the affinity of the Gas6/Axl interaction we fused a loop library of the
   EETI-II knottin peptide to the Axl Ig 1 since the Ig 1 domain comprises the dominant binding

   site for Gas6. We chose a fusion to the Axi N-terminus because in the Gas6/Axl complex,
   the Axi Ig I N-terminus is in closer proximity to Gas6 than its C-terminus, and is therefore
   more likely to enable interaction of the EETI-II mutants with Gas6 (Figure 1C). Analysis of
   EETI-II and Axl structures shows fusion of EETI-II to the Axl N-terminus would give
 5 approximately 11 amino acid spacing between tertiary structures of the two proteins.
   Therefore, we chose to directly fuse the EETI-II loop library to the Axl N-terminus without
   inclusion of additional linker residues. The final Pro30 residue in EETI-II and Pro20 of Axl
   Ig 1 were excluded to improve the flexibility of the linkage, resulting in EETI-II Ser29 fused
   directly to Axl Arg21. We chose EETI-II loops 1 and 3 for randomization as they are
 0 structurally adjacent (Figure 1B), which would allow for the formation of a continuous
   binding face on the EETI-II knottin. Wild-type loops 1 and 3 were concurrently replaced
   with randomized sequences of 7 - 10 and 6 - 8 amino acids (Figure 1D), respectively, using
   NNS codons. The NNS codon strategy permits the inclusion of all 20 amino acids in the
   engineered loops while limiting the frequency of stop codons by encoding for only one stop
 5 codon. Other degenerate library strategies could be employed. See, for other exemplary
   strategies, Kleeb et al., "Metabolic engineering of a genetic selection system with tunable
   stringency," Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. 104: 13907-13912 (2007).
            Direct fusion was achieved by inclusion of an AvrII (C'CTAG,G) site, which encodes
   for a proline-arginine dipeptide, prior to Axl Ig 1 amino acid Gly22 in the yeast display pCT
.0 plasmid. The EETI-II loop library was designed to replace the first base pair of the
   restriction digested AvrII site with a 'T', to give TCTAGG (SEQ ID NO: 40), which encodes
   for the desired Ser-Arg linkage of EETI-II Ser29 and Axl IgI Arg2l.
            The cDNA for the EETI-II loop library was synthesized using standard PCR assembly
   techniques and the yeast display E-Axl library was generated by homologous recombination
,5 to the pCT-Avr-Axl acceptor plasmid (See Examples). This library is hereto referred to as
   the E-Axl library; it comprised 1.2 x 108 individual transformants as determined by dilution
   plating and colony counting. Sequence analysis of randomly selected individual clones
   confirmed intended fusion strategy, loop length distribution, and a lack of mutation to the Axl
   IgI sequence. Approximately 30% of the clones contained full loop sequences without stop
;0 codons or mutations in line with previous reports of libraries containing multiple randomized
   loops.
            Identification of binding proteins from naive libraries is challenging, in part due to the
   requirement that the affinity of the identified protein must be high enough for detection. For

   example, in yeast surface display binding affinities in the single-digit pM range are below the
   limits of detection and such proteins will generally not be enriched during library sorting.
   Domain addition and evolution can be used as an "anchoring" strategy, enabling
   identification of synthetic binding domains that enhance an existing interaction, but in
 5 isolation may themselves possess affinity below the limits of detection. In support of this, the
   EETI-II mutants developed here exhibit weak binding affinity towards Gas6 that are below
   the limits of detection when the knottin mutants are expressed in the absence of Axl.
   Subsequent affinity maturation through traditional strategies or further domain addition and
   evolution can be used to generate fully synthetic binding agents with high affinity.
 0 Library screening and sequence analysis
           Expression of the E-Axl library and its binding to Gas6 were assessed by
   immunofluorescent labeling of the cmyc epitope tag on the yeast display construct and the
   hexahistidine tag (SEQ ID NO: 77) on soluble Gas6, respectively (Figure 2A). Figure 2A
   shows the aga toxin component Aga 1p and Aga 2p extending in that order from the yeast
 5 cell wall, as is known in yeast surface display. An anti-his antibody tagged with Hylite 448
   22 is bound to the his tag 32 on Gas 6; the myc tag 26 is bound to a chicken anti-myc
   antibody 28, which in turn is bound by an anti-chicken antibody labeled with Alexa 555, 30.
   A hemagglutinin tag is also included in the fusions. The Axl-Ig l portion is fused to this, and
   binding of the Gas6 ligand to the Axl is carried out. Strikingly, all members of the starting
.0 library that expressed on the yeast cell surface bound to Gas6 at the same levels as wild-type
   Axl IgI Figure 2B). This demonstrates that the direct fusion of an EETI-II loop library to
   the Axl N-terminus does not perturb the native Gas6-Axl interaction. Consequently, this also
   results in a background of tens of millions of wild-type, single-digit nanomolar binders from
   which rare improved clones must be separated.
 5         For library screening using yeast surface display, often the top 1% of binding clones
   are collected; however, due to this extremely high background level of binding, we initially
   employed a conservative sort strategy wherein the top 6% of binding clones was collected to
   decrease probability of losing rare clones with enhanced properties (Figure 3).
           Figure 3 shows that when sorting the library, the first sorts were conducted by
;0 screening for binding to soluble Gas6. Subsequent sorts used 'off-rate' sorts where binding
   to Gas6 was followed by incubation in the presence of excess competitor to impart selective
   pressure on enhanced kinetic dissociation. In the 6h round of sorting we conducted a

   negative sort to clear mutants that were binding to secondary anti-His antibody. Sort 6
   products (below) show these were completely eliminated with a single round of sorting. Final
   sort products retained binding after a 46 h unbinding ('off') step.
           To increase stringency in later sort rounds, 'off-rate' sorts were conducted in which
 5 incubation with 2 nM Gas6 was followed by an unbinding step in the presence of a molar
   excess of soluble Axl receptor to serve as competitor. The excess competitor renders the
   dissociation of Gas6 from yeast-displayed E-Axl irreversible by sequestering free Gas6 in
   complex with soluble Axl receptor, thereby increasing the selective pressure for clones with
   slower dissociation rate.
 0
   Bispecific proteins that target integrin and a growth factor receptor
           Described in Example 8 is the preparation of a fusion between a knottin (AgRP)
   engineered to bind Uv3 3 integrins, and a fragment comprising the N-terminal and first kringle
   domains of HGF (termed NK1). This portion of HGF (hepatocyte growth factor) binds to the
 5 Met receptor. c-Met (MET or MNNG HOS Transforming gene) is a proto-oncogene that
   encodes a protein known as hepatocyte growth factor receptor (HGFR). The hepatocyte
   growth factor receptor protein possesses tyrosine-kinase activity. The primary single chain
   precursor protein is post-translationally cleaved to produce the alpha and beta subunits, which
   are disulfide linked to form the mature receptor.
.0         The Uv33 integrin receptor is over-expressed on many solid tumor cells making it an
   important cancer target. The Agouti related protein (AgRP), a cystine-knot peptide, contains
   four disulfide bonds and four solvent-exposed loops. It was engineered to target Uv3 3 integrin
   receptors with pM binding affinity. The AgRP mutant, 7A, was shown to have the tightest
   binding affinity. The KD values of the 7A mutant against U87MG and K562-avf3 cells are
,5 0.78 nM and 0.89 nM, respectively.
           The Met receptor tyrosine kinase and its ligand hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) play
   an important role in mediating both tumor progression and tissue regeneration. The N
   terminal and first kringle domains (NK1) of HGF is a naturally occurring splice variant that
   retains the ability to activate the Met receptor. However, NK1 is a weak agonist and is
;0 relatively unstable, limiting its therapeutic potential. We engineered NK1 mutants that
   function as Met receptor agonists and antagonists and possess enhanced biochemical and
   biophysical properties. As described below, we first evolved NK1 for enhanced stability and

   recombinant expression yield using yeast surface display. The NK1 mutants isolated from
   our library screens functioned as weak Met receptor antagonists, due to mutation of a residue
   which mediates NK1 homodimerization. We introduced point mutations that restored this
   NK1 homodimerization interface to create an agonistic ligand, or that further abolished these
 5 interactions to create more effective antagonists. The best antagonists exhibited melting
   temperatures up to ~ 64 'C, a 15 'C improvement over antagonists derived from wild-type
   NK1, and up to a 40-fold improvement in expression yield.
           The crosstalk between integrin and c-Met signaling pathways was studied and showed
   a significant relationship. The signal transduction of HGF/SF, the natural ligand of Met
 0 receptors, can induce ligand-binding activity in functionally-inactive av3 3 integrins in
   epithelial and endothelial cells. Therefore, a dual-specific protein that targets and inhibits
   both aV03 integrin and Met receptors has promise as an effective cancer therapeutic,
   especially compared to single receptor targeting agents.
   Receptor Tyrosine Kinase ("RTK") fragments useful in fusions
 5         The present fusion proteins may include a variety of receptor tyrosine kinases. These
   proteins have been well characterized as to their extracellular and ligand-binding motifs.
   They include     RTK class I (EGF receptor family)(ErbB family); RTK class II (Insulin
   receptor family); RTK class III (PDGF receptor family); RTK class IV (FGF receptor
   family); RTK class V (VEGF receptors family); RTK class VI (HGF receptor family); RTK
 0 class VII (Trk receptor family); RTK class VIII (Eph receptor family); RTK class IX (AXL
   receptor family); RTK class X (LTK receptor family); RTK class XI (TIE receptor family);
   RTK class XII (ROR receptor family); RTK class XIII (DDR receptor family); RTK class
   XIV (RET receptor family); RTK class XV (KLG receptor family); RTK class XVI (RYK
   receptor family);and RTK class XVII (MuSK receptor family). Preferably, in preparing
,5 fusion proteins with these receptors, one would prepare a polypeptide containing only a
   portion of the receptor, i.e. containing the extracellular N-terminal region, which exhibits a
   variety of conserved elements including immunoglobulin (Ig)-like or epidermal growth factor
   (EGF)-like domains, fibronectin type III repeats, or cysteine-rich regions that are
   characteristic for each subfamily of RTKs; these domains contain primarily a ligand-binding
;0 site, which binds extracellular ligands, e.g., a particular growth factor or hormone. The
   intracellular C-terminal region displays the highest level of conservation and comprises
   catalytic domains responsible for the kinase activity of these receptors, which catalyses
   receptor autophosphorylation and tyrosine phosphorylation of RTK substrates.

          Receptor tyrosine kinase sequences are available from a variety of sources, including
  Genbank. Exemplary sequences that may be used to create fragments and fusion proteins
  according to the present invention are given, e.g. in Rand et al., "Sequence survey of
  receptor tyrosine kinases reveals mutations in glioblastomas." Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. October
5 4, 2005 vol. 102 no. 40 14344-14349. The following list is taken from that publication.
      Genbank
      Accession                         RTK Description
      Number
  NM_004439          Ephrin type-A receptor 5 precursor
  NM_001982          Receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-3 precursor
  NM_020975          Proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase receptor ret
                     precursor
  NM_002944          Proto-oncogene tyrosine-protein kinase ROS
                     precursor
  NM_002530          NT-3 growth factor receptor precursor
  NM_002019          Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1
                     precursor
  NM_005012          Tyrosine-protein kinase transmembrane receptor
                     RORI precursor
  NM_004560          Tyrosine-protein kinase transmembrane receptor
                     ROR2 precursor
  NM_004304          ALK tyrosine kinase receptor precursor
  NM_000222          Mast/stem cell growth factor receptor precursor
  NM_006180          BDNF/NT-3 growth factors receptor precursor
  NM_006206          Alpha platelet-derived growth factor receptor
                     precursor
  NM_004441          Ephrin type-B receptor 1 precursor
  NM_000875          Insulin-like growth factor I receptor precursor
  NM_004438          Ephrin type-A receptor 4 precursor
  NM_000208          Insulin receptor precursor
  NM_004119          FL cytokine receptor precursor
  NM_006182          Discoidin domain receptor 2 precursor
  NM_000141          Fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 precursor
  NM_023110          Basic fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 precursor.
          See also, Lee et al., "Vascular endothelial growth factor-related protein: a ligand and
  specific activator of the tyrosine kinase receptor Flt4," PNAS March 5, 1996 vol. 93 no. 5
  1988-1992.

            The exact fragment of the receptor to be used in the present invention can be
   determined in view of the present teachings and existing knowledge of receptor structure. It
   is not necessary that an exact sequence that encodes only the ligand binding pocket be used.
   Some flexibility to include additional amino acids is tolerated. For example, as disclosed in
 5 US 20040132634, The N-terminal extracellular region of all Eph family members contains a
   domain necessary for ligand binding and specificity, followed by a cysteine-rich domain and
   two fibronectin type II repeats. In general, the N terminal portion, of about 400, 500 or 600
   amino acids may be used as a ligand binding fragment of a receptor tyrosine kinase.
            The above listings provide amino acid and nucleotide sequences. Other nucleotide
 0 sequences may be obtained from Genbank by searching on the name of the peptide or protein.
   Knottin DNA sequences may be obtained from the given amino acid sequences, using any
   codon assignment; codon assignment may be selected based on the expression vector used,
   such as yeast. An EETI nucleotide sequence is given in WO0234906, GenBank AX497055;
   an AGRP nucleotide sequence may be found at NG_011501; an agatoxin nucleotide sequence
 5 may be found at Genbank M95540.1. Another knottin amino acid and nucleic acid sequence
   may be found in J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. (2010), 20(4), 708-711, relating to the knottin
   Psacotheasin.
   Receptor li2and fragments useful in fusions
            Exemplified here are the particular receptor ligands hepatocyte growth factor and the
.0 antibody Fc fragment. The hepatocyte growth factor (also termed c-met) was fragmented to
   yield the portion of it that is known to bind to the met receptor. This fragment of HGF is
   known as the NK1 fragment. An exemplary sequence is given in SEQ ID NO: 66. This
   sequence contains portions of sequences in the PANApple super family and of the KR
   superfamily. Therefore, one would expect that the presently exemplified compositions, given
,5 the present teachings, could be expanded to include hepatocyte growth factor-like proteins;
   pplasminogen domain containing proteins; macrophage stimulating factor 1; and other
   plasminogen-related growth factors such as RON ("recepteur d'origine Nantais"). See,
   Maestrini et al., "A family of transmembrane proteins with homology to the MET-hepatocyte
   growth factor receptor," PNAS January 23, 1996 vol. 93 no. 2 674-678. Also , in mammals,
;0 hepatocyte growth factor is a homolog of serine proteases but it has lost its proteolytic
   activity.

   Administration of bispecific proteins
            The present fusion proteins may be administered in vitro, such as in cell culture
   studies, or to cells intended for transplant, but may also be administered in vivo. A variety of
   formulations and dosing regiments used for therapeutic proteins may be employed. The
5  pharmaceutical compositions may contain, in addition to the CFP, suitable pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers, biologically compatible vehicles and additives which are suitable for
   administration to an animal (for example, physiological saline) and eventually comprising
   auxiliaries (like excipients, stabilizers or diluents) which facilitate the processing of the active
   fusion proteins into preparations which can be used pharmaceutically. Such compositions
0  can be eventually combined with another therapeutic composition acting synergically or in a
   coordinated manner with the chimeric proteins of the invention. Alternatively, the other
   composition can be based with a fusion protein known to be therapeutically active against the
   specific disease (e.g. herceptin for breast cancer). Alternatively, the pharmaceutical
   compositions comprising the soluble can be combined into a "cocktail" for use in the various
5  treatment regimens.
            The pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated in any acceptable way to meet
   the needs of the mode of administration. For example, the use of biomaterials and other
   polymers for drug delivery, as well the different techniques and models to validate a specific
   mode of administration, are disclosed in literature (Luo B and Prestwich G D, 2001; Cleland
0  J L et al., 2001).
            Any accepted mode of administration can be used and determined by those skilled in
   the art to establish the desired blood levels of then fusion protein. For example,
   administration may be by various parenteral routes such as subcutaneous, intravenous,
   epidural, topical, intradermal, intrathecal, direct intraventricular, intraperitoneal, transdermal
5  (e.g. in slow release formulations), intramuscular, intraperitoneal, intranasal, intrapulmonary
   (inhaled), intraocular, oral, or buccal routes.
            Other particularly preferred routes of administration are aerosol and depot
   formulation. Sustained release formulations, particularly depot, of the invented medicaments
   are expressly contemplated.
;0          Parenteral administration can be by bolus injection or by gradual perfusion over time.
   Preparations for parenteral administration include sterile aqueous or non-aqueous solutions,
   suspensions, and emulsions, which may contain auxiliary agents or excipients known in the
   art, and can be prepared according to routine methods. In addition, suspension of the active

   fusion proteins as appropriate oily injection suspensions may be administered. Suitable
   lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils, for example, sesame oil, or synthetic fatty
   acid esters, for example, sesame oil, or synthetic fatty acid esters, for example, ethyl oleate or
   triglycerides. Aqueous injection suspensions that may contain substances increasing the
 5 viscosity of the suspension include, for example, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, sorbitol,
   and/or dextran. Optionally, the suspension may also contain stabilizers. Pharmaceutical
   compositions include suitable solutions for administration by injection, and contain from
   about 0.01 to 99 percent, preferably from about 20 to 75 percent of active fusion protein
   together with the excipient. Compositions that can be administered rectally include
 0 suppositories.
           For parenteral (e.g. intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular) administration, the
   active protein(s) can be formulated as a solution, suspension, emulsion or lyophilised powder
   in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle (e.g. water, saline,
   dextrose solution) and additives that maintain is otonicity (e.g. mannitol) or chemical stability
 5 (e.g. preservatives and buffers). The formulation is sterilized by commonly used techniques.
   For transmucosal administration, penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are
   used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art.
           Pharmaceutical or physiologically acceptable preparations that can be taken orally
   include push-fit capsules made of gelatin, as well as soft, sealed capsules made of gelatin and
 0 a plasticizer, such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push-fit capsules can contain the active
   ingredients in admixture with fillers such as lactose, binders such as starches, and/or
   lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and, optionally, stabilizers. In soft capsules, the
   active fusion proteins may be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids, such as fatty oils,
   liquid paraffin, or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition, stabilizers may be added. All
,5 formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.
           The fusion proteins may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection, e.g.,
   by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection may be presented in
   unit dosage form, e.g., in ampoules or in multi-dose containers, with an added preservative.
   The compositions may take such forms as suspensions, solutions or emulsions in aqueous
;0 vehicles, and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending, stabilizing and/or
   dispersing agents. Alternatively, the active ingredient may be in powder or lyophilized form
   for constitution with a suitable vehicle, such as sterile pyrogen-free water, before use.

          In addition to the formulations described previously, the fusion proteins may also be
  formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations may be administered by
  implantation (for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly) or by intramuscular injection.
  Thus, for example, the fusion proteins may be formulated with suitable polymeric or
5 hydrophobic materials (for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil) or ion exchange
  resins, or as sparingly soluble derivatives, for example, as a sparingly soluble salt.
  Additionally, the fusion proteins may be delivered using a sustained release system, such as
  semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the therapeutic agent.
  Various sustained-release materials have been established and are well known by those
0 skilled in the art. Sustained release capsules may, depending on their chemical nature,
  release the fusion proteins for a few weeks up to over 100 days or one year.
          It is understood that the dosage administered will be dependent upon the age, sex,
  health, and weight of the recipient, kind of concurrent treatment, if any, frequency of
  treatment, and the nature of the effect desired. The dosage will be tailored to the individual
5 subject, as is understood and determinable by one of skill in the art. The total dose required
  for each treatment may be administered by multiple doses or in a single dose. The
  pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may be administered alone or in
  conjunction with other therapeutics directed to the condition, or directed to other symptoms
  of the condition. Usually a daily dosage of active protein is comprised between 0.01 to 100
0 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Ordinarily 1 to 40 milligrams per kilogram per day
  given in divided doses or in sustained release form is effective to obtain the desired results.
  Second or subsequent administrations can be performed at a dosage, which is the same, less
  than, or greater than the initial or previous dose administered to the individual. According to
  the invention, the substances of the invention can be administered prophylactically or
5 therapeutically to an individual prior to, simultaneously or sequentially with other therapeutic
  regimens or agents (e.g. multiple drug regimens), in a therapeutically effective amount.
  Active agents that are administered simultaneously with other therapeutic agents can be
  administered in the same or different compositions.
          For any protein used in the method of the invention, the therapeutically effective dose
0 can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. For example, a dose can be formulated in
  animal models to achieve a circulating concentration range that includes or encompasses a
  concentration point or range shown to decrease cytokine expression in an in vitro system.
  Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. A
  therapeutically effective dose refers to that amount of the fusion protein that results in

   amelioration of symptoms in a patient. Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such fusion
   proteins can be determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or
   experimental animals, e.g., for determining the LD50, (the dose lethal to 50% of the test
   population) and the ED50 (the dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population). The
 5 dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be
   expressed as the ratio between LD50 and ED50. Fusion proteins that exhibit high therapeutic
   indices are preferred. The data obtained from these cell culture assays and animal studies can
   be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such fusion
   proteins lies preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50,
 0 with little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage
   form employed and the route of administration utilized. The exact formulation, route of
   administration and dosage can be chosen by the individual physician in view of the patient's
   condition.
   EXAMPLES
 5          As described in Examples 1 through 5, we have developed a general approach to
   engineering existing protein-protein interactions we refer to as "domain addition and
   evolution" in which enhancement is accomplished by expanding the binding interface
   through the addition and subsequent in vitro evolution of a synthetic binding domain. We
   validate this approach by showing the ability to enhance the native high affinity ligand
.0 receptor interaction between Gas6 and the Axl receptor through addition and evolution of a
   synthetic knottin binding domain.
            We identified EETI-II-axl fusion mutants with up to 4-fold enhanced affinity towards
   Gas6. Importantly, Axl IgI did not accumulate mutations during the mutagenesis and
   screening process, indicating that the enhancement in affinity can be attributed to the
,5 engineered EETI-II mutants. Individual reversion of the engineered loops to wild-type EETI
   II sequence confirmed some EA mutants require both engineered loops for the enhanced
   affinity. To our knowledge, this is the first instance of engineering two loops of a knottin
   into a binding face towards an exogenous target. Also, the three EA mutants each comprise
   approximately 45% non-native EETI-II amino acid sequence. Together, this further validates
;0 the robust nature of the knottin fold for generating novel binding reagents. This work is also
   relevant given the role of Axl in cancer metastasis. Dominant negative Axl receptors
   suppress tumor cell migration and metastasis (Vajkoczy et al., 2006; Rankin et al., 2010), and
   the enhanced affinity EA mutants may be useful therapeutic candidates.

            An additional application of this approach includes identification of binding proteins
   from naive libraries. EETI-II peptides engineered for binding tumor targets hold significant
   promise for in vivo molecular imaging applications. However, identification of binding
   proteins from naive libraries is challenging, in part due to the requirement that the affinity of
 5 the identified protein must be high enough for detection. For example, in yeast surface
   display binding affinities in the single-digit pM range are below the limits of detection and
   such proteins will generally not be enriched during library sorting. Domain addition and
   evolution can be used as an "anchoring" strategy, enabling identification of synthetic binding
   domains that enhance an existing interaction, but in isolation may themselves possess affinity
 0 below the limits of detection. In support of this, the EETI-II mutants developed here exhibit
   weak binding affinity towards Gas6 that are below the limits of detection when the knottin
   mutants are expressed in the absence of Axl. Subsequent affinity maturation through
   traditional strategies or further domain addition and evolution can be used to generate fully
   synthetic binding agents with high affinity.
 5          As described below, the engineered EETI knottin variant 2.5D, which binds to
   av33/av35 integrin was directly fused to the N-terminus of wt Axl Ig 1. The concept of this
   multi-specific fusion protein was validated using yeast-surface display by showing that EETI
   2.5D - Axl bound to av33 integrin and Gas6 at levels comparable to the mono-specific
   proteins EETI 2.5D and Axl, respectively. Furthermore, binding of av33 integrin or Gas6 was
.0 not affected by the presence of a saturating concentration of the other target, suggesting EETI
   2.5D - Axl is capable of simultaneously interacting with both av33 integrin and Gas6. The
   EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein was able to be produced recombinantly in microbial hosts on
   a scale of 35 mg/L. The resulting protein displayed high affinity (KD -2 nM) to av 3 integrin
   expressed on the cell surface.
,5 EXAMPLE 1: Reagents and media
            SD-CAA media contained 20 g/L glucose, 6.7 g/L yeast nitrogen base without amino
   acids, 5.4 g/L Na2HPO4, 8.6 g/L NaH2PO4-H20, and 5 g/L Bacto casamino acids; SG-CAA
   media was identical, except glucose was substituted with 20 g/L galactose. SD-CAA pH 4.5
   media was identical to SD-CAA, except phosphates were replaced with 13.7 g/L sodium
;0 citrate dihydrate, 8.4 g/L citric acid anhydrous, and adjusted to pH 4.5. Gas6 and Axl-Fc
   proteins were purchased from R&D Systems, chicken anti-cmyc and goat anti-chicken Alexa
   555 antibodies were purchased from Invitrogen, mouse anti-His Hilyte Fluor 488 monoclonal
   antibody was purchased from Anaspec. Phosphate buffered saline (PBS) is composed of 11.9

   mM sodium phosphate pH 7.4, 137 mM sodium chloride, 2.7 mM potassium chloride.
   PBS/BSA consisted of PBS with 1 mg/mL bovine serum albumin.
   EXAMPLE 2: Yeast Surface Display Library generation: EETI /Axl fusions
           Four forward assembly primers replacing EETI-II loop 1 with 7, 8, 9 or 10 degenerate
 5 NNS codons and three reverse assembly primers replacing EETI-II loop 3 with 6, 7 or 8
   degenerate NNS codons was used to assemble the EETI-II loop library. (EETI-II amino acid
   sequence is Genbank Accession No. P1207 1; DBNA sequences are given in copending US
   12/418,376, filed 4/3/2009, also incorporated by reference. DNA sequences may designed as
   desired by reverse translation of the amino acid sequences given.) The primer sequences
 0 were complementary to the regions adjacent the loops. The amino acid sequences of EETI-II
   and the randomized loop 1 and loop 3, as well as the loops randomized in Axl are shown in
   Fig 1 D. The four forward primers were pooled and used at 1 PM each, and each of the three
   reverse primers were pooled and used at 1.33 PM each, with IX KOD polymerase buffer, 0.2
   mM dNTPs, 1.5 mM MgCl 2 , 1 M Betaine, and 2.5 units KOD polymerase (Novagen).
 5 Thermocyling parameters were: Step 1- 95 'C for 2 min; Step 2- 95 'C for 30 sec, 55 'C for
   30 sec, 72 'C for 1 min (30 cycles); Step 3- 72 'C for 10 min. Assembled DNA (0.6      L) was
   amplified using 2 pM forward and reverse amplification primers, IX Pfx50 buffer, 0.2 mM
   dNTPs, and 5 units Pfx50 DNA polymerase (Invitrogen). Forward amplification primer had
   50 bp homology to the pCT backbone, while the reverse amplification primer contained 50
.0 bp homology to the Axl IgI N-terminus and was designed to ensure appropriate Ser-Arg
   linkage of the EETI-II C-terminus (Ser29) with the Axl IgI N-terminus (Arg2l). For
   preparation of the plasmid backbone, Axl amino acids comprising the IgI domain (22-132;
   Genbank Accession NO. P30530) were cloned into the yeast display pCT plasmid (Boder and
   Wittrup, 1997) using NheI and BamHI restriction sites. We included an AvrII restriction site
,5 directly 5' of the Axl sequence. This was placed downstream of the NheI site with a 14 bp
   spacer of "junk DNA" to facilitate restriction digest. We termed this plasmid pCT Avr-Axl.
   Plasmid backbone for library synthesis was generated by digesting pCT Avr-Axl with NheI
   and AvrII restriction enzymes. A total of ~ 50 pg of cDNA insert and ~ 25 Pg of restriction
   digested pCT Avr-Axl backbone was transformed into EBY 100 by electroporation and
;0 assembled in vivo by homologous recombination. A library of 1.2 x 108 transformants was
   obtained, as estimated by serial dilution plating and colony counting. Sequence analysis of
   randomly selected clones confirmed appropriate fusion of EETI-II with Axl Ig 1 and desired
   loop length distribution in the EETI-II mutants.

           Yeast surface display is described further in United States Patent 6,423,538.
   Generally, at least 104 transformants will be obtained.
           Primers were designed as follows:
   DNA oli2onucleotide primers for EETI-Axl library synthesis/assembly and
 5 amplification
           In the sequences below, the nucleotides used for homology to the plasmid backbone
   are shown at the 5' end up to the first slash. The part of the primer between the first slash and
   the double slash and the triple slash and the 3' end correspond to residues of EETI-II. N
   stands for any nucleotide and S is a mixture of G and C. The part of the primer between the
 0 double slash and the triple slash are nucleotides used to produce randomized residues for
   EETI-II loop 1 or loop 3.
   Li_7Xfwd:
   Ggttctgctagc/ggttgt//nnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnns///
   tgtaaacaagattctgattgtttggctggttgtgtt (SEQ ID NO: 67)
 5 Li_8X fwd:
   Ggttctgctagc/ggttgt//nnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnns///
   tgtaaacaagattctgattgtttggctggttgtgtt (SEQ ID NO: 68)
   Li_9X fwd:
 0 Ggttctgctagc/ggttgt//nnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnns///
   tgtaaacaagattctgattgtttggctggttgtgtt (SEQ ID NO: 69)
   Li1OX fwd:
   Ggttctgctagc/ggttgt//nnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnns///
,5 tgtaaacaagattctgattgtttggctggttgtgtt (SEQ ID NO: 70)
           In the case of the reverse primers below, the 5' end up to the first slash was
   homologous to nucleotides encoding the N terminus of the Axl receptor construct, which is
;0 also part of the acceptor plasmid backbone. As above, the region between the first slash and
   the double slash and the triple slash and the 3' end correspond to residues of EETI-II. N
   stands for any nucleotide and S is a mixture of G and C.

   L3_6X_rev:
   Cgtgcccct/gagaccaca//snnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnn///
   acaaacacaaccagccaaacaatcag (SEQ ID NO: 71)
5
   L3_7Xrev:
   Cgtgcccct/gagaccaca//snnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnn///
   acaaacacaaccagccaaacaatcag (SEQ ID NO: 72)
0
   L3_8Xrev:
   Cgtgcccct/gagaccaca//snnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnnsnn///
   acaaacacaaccagccaaacaatcag (SEQ ID NO: 73)
5          After library synthesis by PCR assembly, the library was amplified using the
   amplification primers below, which contain -50 base pairs of homology to the plasmid
   backbone (underlined, which comprises homology to the Axl sequence for the case of the
   reverse amplification primer). The -50 base pairs of homology allows for assembly of the
   library insert and plasmid backbone as described by "Raymond CK, Pownder TA, Sexson
 0 SL. 1999. General method for plasmid construction using homologous recombination.
   Biotechniques 26:134-138, 140-131."
   Library-amplificationreverse:
   Ttccct ggegttgcccac gaag g gactttcttcagcctgc gt gcccct/gctaccaca (SEQ ID NO: 74)
,5
   Library-amplificationforward: (homology to plasmid backbone portion is 5' of slash)
   Ggtggttctggtggtggtggttctggtggtggtggttctgctagc/ggttgt        (SEQ ID NO: 75)
   EXAMPLE 3: Library screening with Gas6
0          Various concentrations of Gas6 were incubated with yeast-displayed libraries in
   PBS/BSA for ~ 2 - 3 hr at room temperature. For the final hour, chicken anti-cmyc
   antibodies were added to a final dilution of 1:250. Cells were pelleted by centrifugation,
   washed with 1 mL ice cold PBS/BSA, and resuspended in PBS/BSA containing 1:100

   dilution of goat anti-chicken A555 and 1:100 dilution of mouse anti-His 488 antibodies for 25
   min on ice. Cells were pelleted, washed with 1 mL ice cold PBS/BSA, and sorted by
   fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) on a Vantage SE flow cytometer (Stanford FACS
   Core Facility). Collected cells were amplified in SD-CAA pH 4.5 media and induced for
 5 expression in SG-CAA media at 30 'C for additional rounds of FACS to yield an enriched
   pool of mutants. The first round of sorting by FACS consisted of three separate sorts for a
   total of approximately 8 x 107 sorted cells, while subsequent sort rounds analyzed at least 1Ox
   the number of yeast collected in the previous round to ensure sufficient sampling of
   remaining library diversity. Sort stringency was increased by decreasing the concentration of
 0 Gas6. In the later sort rounds, following incubation with Gas6 cells were pelleted, washed,
   and incubated in the presence of excess competitor (-50-fold molar excess of Axl-Fc) for
   "off-rate" sorts. In the final hour of the unbinding step chicken anti-cmyc was added to 1:250
   final dilution. Cells were pelleted, washed, and stained with secondary antibodies as above.
   Plasmid DNA was recovered from yeast cultures using a Zymoprep kit (Zymo Research) and
 5 transformed into XL- 1 blue supercompetent E. coli cells (Stratagene) for plasmid miniprep.
   DNA sequencing was performed by MC Lab (South San Francisco, CA).
            After five rounds of sorting, the library began to enrich for clones possessing stronger
   binding than wild-type Axl IgI (Figure 3). A common problem in screening libraries
   containing randomized sequences is the potential to screen for artifactual binders. For
.0 example, since we are illuminating Gas6 binding using an anti-hexahistidine secondary
   antibody ("hexahistidine" disclosed as SEQ ID NO: 77), some of the "enhanced" clones
   actually bound to the secondary antibody. To control for this, we conducted a negative sort
   with 0 nM Gas6 and secondary antibody labeling as usual to clear secondary binders from the
   collected pool (Figure 3, Sort 6). We continued to monitor for secondary binders, but this
,5 single negative sort was sufficient for eliminating artifactual binders from all subsequent sort
   products. Ultimately, we obtained an enriched pool of mutants with enhanced binding to
   Gas6 over wild-type Axl Ig 1. For comparison, the final sort, which used a 46 h 'off' step,
   exhibited higher persistent binding than the fourth sort, which only used a 4 h 'off' step,
   demonstrating significant improvement in kinetic dissociation rate.
;0 EXAMPLE 4: Characterization of engineered mutants
            Gas6 (0.05 - 400 nM) was added to 5 x 104 yeast cells displaying protein of interest in
   PBS/BSA at room temperature, using volumes, cell numbers, and incubation times
   experimentally determined to avoid ligand depletion and reach binding equilibrium. Cells

   were pelleted and washed with ice cold PBS/BSA and resuspended in PBS/BSA containing
   1:250 dilution of chicken anti-cmyc and incubated on ice for 40 min. Cells were pelleted,
   washed and resuspended in PBS/BSA containing a 1:100 dilution of goat anti-chicken and
   mouse anti-His secondary antibodies for 20 min on ice. Cells were washed and analyzed
 5 using a FACSCalibur flow cytometer (Becton Dickinson) and FlowJo software (Treestar,
   Inc). Binding titrations were fit to a four-parameter sigmoidal curve using Kaleidagraph
   software to determine the equilibrium binding constant (KD). For kinetic unbinding tests
   cells were incubated with 2 nM Gas6 until binding equilibrium was reached, then were
   washed, pelleted, and incubated in the presence of 50-fold molar excess Axl-Fc as described
 0 above for off-rate sorts for 0, 1, 4, 9.25, 23, or 46 hrs. Persistent binding was analyzed by
   flow cytometry and unbinding was fit to a single or double exponential decay curves as
   appropriate using Kaleidograph software. Persistent binding for reversion to wild-type EA
   loop variants was conducted identically to the kinetic binding tests, except unbinding step
   was conducted for 0 - 9.25 hrs.
 5         Sequencing a total of 31 randomly selected clones from products of the 7', 8' and 9'
   rounds of sorting revealed twelve unique clones, with a 10t round of sorting enriching for
   two of the clones from the 9h round sort products (Table 3, below). All clones exhibited loop
   lengths in line with the initial library design and no clones contained mutations in the Axl
   sequence, indicating the enhanced affinity of EA clones is specific to the EETI-II mutants.
.0 Three of the twelve clones contained a PGM motif in loop 3, with two additional clones
   containing either PTM or PGK, for a common P-G/T-M/K motif. There was also lesser
   occurrence an L or L-X preceding and R-S succeeding the P-G/T-M/K motif (Figure ID).
   Interestingly, only four of the twelve EA mutants, EA 7.01, EA 7.05, EA7.06, and EA 8.04,
   did not contain cysteines in the engineered loops, but one of these, EA 7.05, contained a cys
,5 to arg mutation in the conserved cysteine residue preceding loop 1. Some mutants containing
   the P-T/G-M/K motif in loop 3 also contained a cysteine in an engineered loop, suggesting
   the additional cysteines may not completely perturb the EETI-II loop structure (Table 3).
   However, to minimize potential effects of unpaired cysteines, EA 7.01, 7.06, and 8.04 were
   selected for further investigation. For brevity, the entire sequences of the Axl fusions is not
;0 given here, although are set forth in the attached sequence listing for SEQ ID NOs: 41, 46
   and 50. It is understood that the Axl Ig I sequence is set forth below in both native and
   mutated forms and is used in the EA sequences below in native form, except where noted.
   For example, EA 7.01 as listed in Table 3 is fused to the N terminal of Axl IgI continues with

   the N terminal sequence of the Axl IgI sequence, as shown in Figure ID and in SEQ ID NO:
   41. The other EAs listed in table 3 are similarly fused with the Axl sequence beginning
   "RGT...".. Full length sequences are given in SEQ ID NOs: 41, 46 and 50, illustrated in Fig.
   ID up to the 'QAE..." portion. To reiterate, in the polypeptides of Table 3 below, the
5  terminal GS is fused to the Axl IgI domain as shown in SEQ ID NO: 84, below.
   Table 3: Sequences of EA products from final sort rounds
   Clone*               AA sequence                  #AA    #AA     #rpt  SEQ ID      Notes
                                                    L1**    L3**            NO:
  Wt        GC PRILMR CKQDSDCLAGCVC                 6      5                  2
  EETI-II   GPNGF CGSP
  EA 7.01   GC ALMTPSAVD                            9      6        2     Residues
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC LPGMVR                                           1-33 of
            CGS                                                           SEQ ID
                                                                           NO: 41
  EA 7.02   GC LGNVRACVSV                           6,10   7,8      1
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC ELARSNK                                            42
            CCGS
  EA 7.03   GC TAVRPCT                              5,7    8        1
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC TLLPGMLM                                           43
            CGS
  EA 7.04   GC WPRVSCVLWH                           5,10   8        1
            CKQDSDCLAGCVCILTRHKTV                                            44
            CGS
  EA 7.05   GR RWWTLAR                              '7'    8        1
            CKQDSDCLAGCVCILDPGKRS                                            45
            CGS
  EA 7.06   GC LGGVALAH                             8      6        1     Residues
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC HILPEL CGS                                       1-32 of
                                                                          SEQ ID
                                                                           NO: 46
  EA 7.08   GC HENGLPLI                             8      5,7      1
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC         SSHNWCQ                                    47
            CGS
  EA 8.01   GC ALMTPSAVD                            9      6        6              Same as
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC         LPGMVR                                     48    7.01
            CGS
  EA 8.02   GC VCLCCGPSGS                           ??,10  7        3
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC         AANHKDN                                    49
            CGS
  EA 8.04   GC SWSTLAR                              7      8        2     Residues
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC         MLEPGMRS                                 1-33 of
            CGS                                                           SEQID
                                                                           NO: 50
  EA 8.05   GC WLECWYR                              3,7    5,8      3
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC YLCPTMGS                                           51
            CGS
  EA 8.08   GC LGNVRACVSV                           6,10   7,8      1        52    Same as
            CKQDSDCLAGCVC ELARSNK                                                  7.02

              CCGS
  EA           GC VRVASHLWF                           9       5,6    3
  9.01+       CKQDSDCLAGCVC CGRPNV                                              53
              CGS
  EA 9.02      GC VCLCCGPSGS                          ??,10   7      2                Same as
              CKQDSDCLAGCVC AANHKDN                                             54    8.02
              CGS
  EA 9.05      GC CSLRWCVSRV                          ??,10   7      2
              CKQDSDCLAGCVCINPNKPL                                              55
              CGS
  EA 9.07      GC ALMTPSAVD                           9       6      1                Same as
              CKQDSDCLAGCVC LPGMVR                                              56    7.01
              CGS
   EA          GC VRVASHLWF                           9       5,6    2                Same as
  10.01*      CKQDSDCLAGCVC CGRPNV                                              57    9.01
              CGS
  EA           GC CSLRWCVSRV                          ??,10   7      6                Same as
  10.02       CKQDSDCLAGCVC INPNKPL                                             58    9.05
             .CGS
   * Randomly selected clones from products of 7,,              or 16 round of sorting. All clones
   retained wild-type Axl IgI sequence (not shown).
   ** If cysteines are present in loop, then total loop length and "shortened" loop length are
   noted.
5  * Contains in-frame G3 S (SEQ ID NO: 78) insertion in (G4 S) 3 linker (SEQ ID NO: 79).
   # rpt: number of times that clone occurred in the randomly selected clones for sequencing.
   EXAMPLE 5: Characterization of Axl variants to Gas6
            In order to use yeast display to characterize the binding interactions between Gas6
   and the engineered EA mutants, we first sought to confirm that yeast display allows accurate
0  affinity measurements of the Gas6-Axl interaction. Using yeast displayed Axl we were able
   to recapitulate previously reported binding affinities of Axl variants determined by surface
   plasmon resonance and solid phase binding (Table 4). This validates that yeast-displayed Axl
   is similar to recombinant versions of the receptor.
5  Table 4: Comparison of affinity of Axl point mutants by yeast surface display (YSD) to
   values reported in the literature.
                  KD (nM)
                  YSD*             Solid        SPR *
                                   phase *
  Wt Axl          1.7 ±0.6          1           6±2
  E56R            10.2 ±3.6        6            10± 2
  E59R            109.2 ±17.6      40           98 ±24

   T77R            >200              >200         311 ±118
                          * This work
                          * From ref (Sasaki et al., 2006 Structural basis for Gas6-Axl signalling,
                          EMBO J. 2006 January 11; 25(1): 80-87.)
 5          The affinities of the EETI-II mutants alone were too weak to be detected, but when
    fused to Axi Ig 1, the EA mutants exhibited subnanomolar affinities up to -4-fold stronger
    than wild-type Axl Igl. Wild-type EETI-II fused to the Axl N-terminus exhibited the same
    affinity as wild-type Axl. This further demonstrates the fusion construct does not interfere
    with the native Axl-Gas6 interaction, and that affinity improvement is due to the EETI-II
 0  loop mutants, rather than simply resulting from fusion of the EETI-II knottin to the Axl N
    terminus (Figure 4 and Table 4).
                      Table 5: Affinity of wt EETI-Axl and EA (EETI-II-axl fusion) mutants.
                       KD   (nM)        x-fold
                                        over wt
   Wt EETI-Axl          1.6 ± 0.3       1
   EA 7.01             0.46 ± 0.06      3.6
   EA 7.06             0.42 ±0.11       3.9
   EA 8.04             0.59 ± 0.08      2.8
    Affinities are reported as avg. ± std. dev. of three independent experiments.
 5
            To explore the nature of the enhanced binding, we conducted binding studies to
    monitor dissociation kinetics. Incubation of yeast expressing either wild-type Axl IgI or EA
    mutants with 2 nM Gas6 was followed by incubation with a molar excess of competitor in a
    similar manner to the 'off-rate' sorts described above. While wild-type Axl IgI exhibits
,0  kinetic dissociation that is well-described by a single exponential decay model, the EA
    mutants exhibit more complex kinetics and must be fit using a double exponential decay
    model (Figure 5 and Table 5). As a control, wild-type EETI-Axl exhibited indistinguishable
    dissociation kinetics from wild-type Axl IgI and was well-fit by a single exponential decay
    model (data not shown).
,5
    Table 6: Kinetic dissociation constants of wild-type Axl Igi and EA mutants.
                koiff (hr)          koff2 (hr)
   Wt Axl       0.76 ±0.16          -
   EA 7.01      0.77 ± 0.16         0.038 ± 0.004

   EA 7.06      0.74 ± 0.27        0.067 ± 0.010
   EA 8.04      0.62 ± 0.14        0.048 ± 0.001
               Kinetic constants are reported as avg. ± std. dev. of three independent experiments.
             To interrogate the contributions from each of the engineered loops to the enhanced
    affinity, we individually reverted loops 1 or 3 of the EA mutants to the wild-type EETI-II
    sequence and tested binding to Gas6 (Figure 6). In these studies wild-type EETI-Axl was
 5  used as a control for "reversion" of both loops to wild-type. Evaluation of persistent binding
    of EA 7.06 revealed only loop 3 contributes to the interaction with Gas6, as reversion of loop
    1 to wild-type EETI-II sequence (EA 7.06 wtL1) exhibits identical persistent binding to the
    parental EA 7.06 mutant (Figure 6B). For EA 7.01 and EA 8.04, reversion of loop I to wild
    type EETI-II sequence (EA 7.01 wtL1 and EA 8.04 wtL1) exhibits weaker persistent binding
 0  than the respective parental mutants, but stronger than wild-type EETI-Axl. Reversion of
    loop 3 to wild-type in EA 7.01 wtL3 and EA 8.04 wtL3 completely abolished improvement
    over wild-type EETI-Axl (Figure 6A&C). Together, this demonstrates that for EA 7.01 and
    EA 8.04, loop 3 is the main contributor, but both engineered loops are necessary for
    maximum enhancement of binding, and for EA 7.06 loop 3 is the sole contributor.
 5  EXAMPLE 6: Knottin fusions with mutated receptor fragment (EETI-II-Axl 121)
             The following example describes the preparation of Axl IgI receptor fragments fused
    to mutated EETI-II knottins engineered to bind integrins, namely knottins 2.5D and 2.5F.
    2.5D and 2.5F are both variants of the Ecballium elaterium trypsin inhibitor-II (EETI-II)
    knottin. These knottins were engineered to specifically bind to the ct3, atp   5 and Caps, ap 5,
,0   api integrins, respectively. To accomplish this, loop 1 of EETI-II was replaced with a
    randomized sequence containing the integrin recognition tripeptide motif, RGD. Yeast
    surface display and fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) was then used to select for
    clones with the desired binding properties. These integrins are clinically important cancer
    targets and Axl is a receptor tyrosine kinase that is an emerging target for cancer treatment as
,5  well. Axl overexpression has been linked to invasive and metastatic phenotypes of a variety
    of cancers, suggesting that antagonizing the interaction between Axl and its native ligand,
    Gas6, could be of therapeutic value.
             Axl S6-1 and S6-2 are engineered versions of Axl Ig 1 that bind to Axl's native ligand,
    Gas6, with higher affinity than wild-type. Using error-prone PCR, mutants were introduced
;0  into the wild-type Axl Ig I gene and the resulting mutant DNA library was expressed on the

    surface of yeast. Using FACS, clones with improved binding to Gas6 were isolated. Clones
    S6-1 and S6-2 display 20- and 12-fold improvements in equilibrium binding over wild- type,
    respectively, with improvements largely coming from enhanced off-rates. In addition to
    binding Gas6 tighter, S6-1 has a 13'C improvement in melting temperature over wild-type
 5  representing a significant enhancement in stability.
    Table 7 below shows the various peptides (EETI-II) and the Axl mutants used.
      Protein/Scaffold            Target            Engineered Portion          SEQ ID NO:
   EETI-II mutant 2.5D      avP3, avP5         Loop 1: CPQGRGDWAPTSC                 59
   EETI-II mutant 2.5F      avP3, avP5, a51    Loop 1: CPRPRGDNPPLTC                 60
   Axl Ig1*                 Gas6               None
   AxI S6-1*                Gas 6              G32S, D87G, V92A, G127R **
   AxI S6-2*                Gas6               E26G, V79M, V92A, G127E **
    *Axl IgI consists of the first Ig domain, encompassing amino acids 19-132 of full-length Axl
    (Genbank Accession NO. P30530)
 0  ** Locations of these mutations are further indicated for clarity by bolding and underlining in
    the sequences immediately below.
    Amino Acid Sequences:
            The amino acid sequences of wild-type EETI-JI, 2.5D and 2.5F are given above.
 5  Single amino acid mutations and a deletion were introduced into the Axl Ig 1 receptor
    fragment as shown below, where bracketed [Ap] is omitted in EA fusions shown in Table 3:
    SEQ ID NO: 61
    Axl IgI:
     [AP]RGTQAEESPFVGNPGNITGARGLTGTLRCQLQVQGEPPEVHWLRDGQILELADSTQTQ
'0  VPLGEDEQDDWIVVSQLRITSLQLSDTGQYQCLVFLGHQTFVSQPGYVGLEGLP
    SEQ ID NO: 62
15  Axl S6-1:
     [AP]RGTQAEESPFVSNPGNITGARGLTGTLRCQLQVQGEPPEVHWLRDGQILELADSTQTQ
    VPLGEDEQGDWIVASQLRI TSLQLSDTGQYQCLVFLGHQTFVSQPGYVRLEGLP
    SEQ ID NO: 63
;0  Axl S6-2:
     [AP]RGTQAGESPFVGNPGNITGARGLTGTLRCQLQVQGEPPEVHWLRDGQILELADSTQTQ
    MPLGEDEQDDWIVASQLRI TSLQLSDTGQYQCLVFLGHQTFVSQPGYVELEGLP

   Fusion Construction:
            Using standard cloning techniques, the genes encoding for the EETI-JI mutant and
   Axl IgI were assembled into a single genetic construct coding for the fusion protein. The
 5 EETI-JI domain was fused to the N-terminus of Axl IgI, resulting a fusion protein consisting
   of an N-terminal knottin domain followed by the Axl IgI domain. To improve the overall
   flexibility of the fusion, the final proline of EETI-JJ and the initial alanine and proline of Axl
   were removed. The DNA encoding for the fusion protein was then ligated into both yeast
   expression and secretion plasmids. This fusion protein has been expressed on the surface of
 0 yeast to allow for binding studies, as well as produced solubly.
   Data:
            Briefly, yeast displayed 2.5D-Axl was used to test whether this fusion was functional.
   The fusion's ability to binding to soluble ap3 integrin and Gas6 was measured and compared
 5 to binding levels seen in 2.5D and Axl alone. The fusion displayed aLp binding affinities
   that matched that of 2.5D, while it maintained wild-type Axl's affinity for Gas6, validating
   the fusion construct. Additionally, binding of each soluble target was tested in the presence
   of a saturating amount of the second target to test the fusion's ability to concurrently bind
   both aLp integrin and Gas6. These binding levels were the same as when they were
.0 measured individually, suggesting that the fusion can indeed simultaneously bind to both of
   its targets. Finally, to confirm that the fusion is stable, it was produced solubly in the yeast
   Pichiapastoris. Purified recombinant yields were on the order of 50-75mg per liter. These
   proteins were tested for their ability to bind to cells transfected to overexpress the atp3
   integrin. They displayed equilibrium binding consistent with that previously determined for
 5 2.5D, further validating that fusing the two protein domains did not negatively affect binding
   properties.
   Fusion Function:
            This knottin-Axl fusion will function as a multispecific molecule capable of
;0 concurrently antagonizing both integrin binding as well as the native Gas6/Axl interactions.
   Gas6 is a soluble ligand whereas the integrins are cell surface receptors, allowing both targets
   to be bound at the same time. Binding of Gas6 will sequester the soluble ligand, preventing it
   from associating with, and subsequently activating endogenous Axl receptor. Binding to
   integrin receptors will prevent them from binding to extracellular matrix proteins.

   EXAMPLE 7: Knottin fusions to improve yields of engineered knottins
            As described above, knottins can be difficult to produce recombinantly. By fusing
   them to a well-expressing protein, they can be expressed in high yields. Cleavage of the
 5 knottin can be accomplished by the inclusion of a protease site between the protein domains.
   Fusion construction:
            Using standard cloning techniques, the genes encoding for the EETI-II mutant and
   Axl IgI were assembled into a single genetic construct coding for the fusion protein. Both N
   and C-terminal knottin fusions were created, with the Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) recognition
 0 site, ENLYFQG (SEQ ID NO: 80), being inserted between the protein domains. The gene
   was then ligated into a yeast expression plasmid and transformed into the yeast Pichia
   pastoris.
   Amino Acid Sequence:
 5
   underlined - EETI mutant (2.5D)
   bolded- TEV recognition site
   italics -Axl Igi
 0 SEQ ID NO: 64
   N-terminal fusion:
   GCPQGRGDWAPTSCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCGSENLYFQG
   RGT QAEESPFVGNPGNITGARGL TGTLRCQLQVQGEPPEVHWLRDGQILELADSTQT QVPLG
   EDEQDDWIVVSQLR I TSLQL SD TGQ YQCLVFLGHQ T FVSQPGYVGLEGLP
   The EETI portion is underlined. The TEV recognition site is in bold.
   SEQ ID NO: 65
   C-terminal fusion:
;0 APRGTQAEESPFVGNPGNITGARGLTGTLRCQLQVQGEPPEVHWLRDGQILELADSTQTQVP
   LGEDEQDDWIVVSQLRITSLQL SDTGQ YQCLVFLGHQTFVSQP GYVGLEGLP ENLYFQG
   GCPQGRGDWAPTSCKQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCGS
            Both N and C-terminal fusions were produced with purified yields of -50 mg per
;5 liter. The purified fusions were then subjected to proteolytic cleavage by TEV, which
   released the knottin domains. The knottins were then further purified by FPLC to separate
   them from their fusion partner. It should be noted that folded, functional EETI mutant 2.5D
   could not be expressed in yeast without the assistance of this fusion protein.

           It can be seen that the N-terminal fusion contains a linking sequence that is in bold. In
   addition, a direct fusions was made without the linking sequence, i.e. wherein the caroxy
   terminal serine of the 2.5D EETI/integrin peptide is fused directly to the arginine of the Axl
   IgI domain. By fusing EETI 2.5D to Axl Igl, a multi-specific molecule was formed, capable
 5 of binding av33/av35 integrins and Gas6. Analysis of the crystal structure of Axl suggested
   that the N-terminus was far enough away from secondary structural elements that a direct
   fusion to the knottin would be appropriate results using the direct fusion are described in
   Example 9.
   EXAMPLE 8: A2RP knottin against          Qp 3 inte2rin fused to an engineered fragment of
 0 HGF (NK1) that binds the Met receptor
           A dual-specific fusion protein was constructed by linking the AgRP mutant, 7A, with
   one of the tightest binding NK1 fragments, named Aras4. Aras4 is linked at the C-terminus of
   AgRP7A and there is no amino acid linker between two domains.
           The binding towards soluble Uv3 3 integrin and Met receptor was measured using yeast
 5 surface display. The binding against 0.5 nM and 5 nM of Uv33 integrin and Met was
   measured and compared with AgRP 7A and Aras4 alone (Figure 7). The bar graphs in
   Figure 7 show that the fusion proteins have comparable binding affinities with the AgRP and
   NK1 mutants towards Uv3 3 integrin and Met receptors, respectively. This indicates that the
   fusion protein can be expressed and their individual components bind to their respective
 0 targets without steric interference.
           The open reading frame of the fusion protein, AgRP7A-Aras4, was incorporated into
   the pPICK9K plasmid and transformed into Pichiapastoris. The fusion protein was
   expressed in yeast culture according to the manufacturer's instructions (Invitrogen), then
   purified by metal chelating chromatography through the hexahistidine tag (SEQ ID NO: 77).
,5 The scheme of the gene of this fusion protein is show in the box below. The protein
   sequence of the fusion protein, AgRP7A-Aras4 is listed in Table 8 and listed below.
          SnaBI      AvrII                                                     MluI
                                                         Aras-4                   His-Tag
           I Flag-Tag      AgRP-7A                                                               A
   Above is a scheme of the gene of the fusion protein in pPCI9K plasmid. SnaBI, AvrII and
;0 MluI are the restriction enzyme sites.
   Table 8. The protein sequences of Knottin-NK1 Bolded: Flag-Tag

 Underlined: Knottins (AgRp7A, EETI2.5F)
 Italics: NK1 variants
Fusion      Name of     Knottin    Fusion       Protein sequence
Seq ID      the fusion             Partner
            protein
1 (SEQ      AgRP7A-     The Agouti NK1 fragment DYKDDDDKPRGCVRLHESCLG
ID          Aras4       related    of HGF       QQVPCCDPAATCYCSGRGDND
NO(s):                  protein    (Aras4)      LVCYCRYAEGQGKRRNTIHEFKK
66                      (AgRP)                  SAKTTLIKIDPALRIKTEKANTADQ
                                                CANRCTRSKGLPFTCKAFVFDKA
                                                RKRCLWFPFNSMSSGVKKEFGHE
                                                FDLYENKAYIRDCIIGRGRNYRGT
                                                VSITKSGIKCQPWSAMIPHEHSFL
                                                PSSYRGEDLRENYCRNPRGEEGG
                                                PWCYTSDPEVRYEVCDIPQCSEVE
                                                TRHHHHHH
2 (SEQ      AgRP7A-     The Agouti NK1 fragment DYKDDDDKPRGCVRLHESCLG
ID NO:      M2.2        related    of HGF       QQVPCCDPAATCYCSGRGDND
85):                    protein                 LVCYCRYAEGQRKRRNTIHEFKK
                        (AgRP)     (M2.2)       SAKTTLIKIDPALKIKTEKVNTADQ
                                                CANRCTRNKG
                                                LPFTCKAFVFDKARKRCLWFPFN
                                                SMSSGVKKEFGHEFDLYENKDYI
                                                RDCIIGNGRSYRGTVSITKSGIKCQ
                                                PWSSMIP
                                                HEHSFLPSSYRGEDLRENYCRNPR
                                                GEEGGPWCFTSDPEVRYEVCDIP
                                                QCSEVETRHHHHHH
3(SEQ       AgRp7A -    The Agouti NK1 fragment DYKDDDDKPRGCVRLHESCLG
ID NO:      M2.2        related    of HGF       QQVPCCDPAATCYCSGRGDND
86)         (D127A)     protein                 LVCYCRYAEGQRKRRNTIHEFKK
                        (AgRP)     (M2.2        SAKTTLIKIDPALKIKTEKVNTADQ
                                   (D127A))     CANRCTRNKGLPFTCKAFVFDKA
                                                RKRCLWFPFNSMSSGVKKEFGHE
                                                FDLYENKDYIRACIIGNGRSYRGT
                                                VSITKSGIKCQPWSSMIP
                                                HEHSFLPSSYRGEDLRENYCRNPR
                                                GE
                                                EGGPWCFTSDPEVRYEVCDIPQC
                                                SEVETRHHHHHH
4(SEQ       EETI2.5F    Ecballium  NK1 fragment DYKDDDDKPRGCPRPRGDNPP
ID NO:      -Aras4      elaterium  of HGF       LTCSQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG
87):                    trypsin                 YAEGQGKRRNTIHEFKKSAKTTLI

                            inhibitor     (Aras4)          KIDPALRIKTEKANTADQCANRCT
                            (EETI)                         RSKGLPFTCKAFVFDKARKRCLW
                                                           FPFNSMSSGVKKEFGHEFDLYEN
                                                           KAYIRDCIIGRGRNYRGTVSITKSG
                                                           IKCQPWSAMIPHEHSFLPSSYRGE
                                                           DLRENYCRNPRGEEGGPWCYTSD
                                                           PEVRYEVCDIPQCSEVETRHHHH
                                                           HH
  5 (SEQ      EETI2.5F      Ecballium     NK1 fragment DYKDDDDKPRGCPRPRGDNPP
  ID NO:      -M2.2         elaterium     of HGF           LTCSQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG
  8D8N:       -tri                        oYAEGQRKRRNTIHEFKKSAKTTLI
                            inhibitor     (M2.2)           KIDPALKIKTEKVNTADQCANRCT
                             whiit                         RNKGLPFTCKAFVFDKARKRCLW
                            (EETI)                         FPFNSMSSGVKKEFGHEFDLYEN
                                                           KDYIRDCIIGNGRSYRGTVSITKSG
                                                           IKCQPWSSMIPHEHSFLPSSYRGE
                                                           DLRENYCRNPRGEEGGPWCFTSD
                                                           PEVRYEVCDIPQCSEVETRHHHH
                                                           HH
  6 (SEQ      EETI2.5F      Ecballium     NK1 fragment     DYKDDDDKPRGCPRPRGDNPP
  ID          - M2.2        elaterium     of HGF           LTCSQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCG
  NO:89)      (D127A)       trypsin                        YAEGQRKRRNTIHEFKKSAKTTLI
                            inhibitor     (M2.2            KIDPALKIKTEKVNTADQCANRCT
                            (EETI)        (D127A))         RNKGLPFTCKAFVFDKARKRCLW
                                                           FPFNSMSSGVKKEFGHEFDLYEN
                                                           KDYIRACIIGNGRSYRGTVSITKSGI
                                                           KCQPWSSMIPHEHSFLPSSYRGE
                                                           DLRENYCRNPRGEEGGPWCFTSD
                                                           PEVRYEVCDIPQCSEVETRHHHH
                                                           HH
           Variant sequences of the NKi fragment could be used, and are described, e.g., in
   Hartman et al., "A functional domain in the heavy chain of scatter factor/hepatocyte growth
   factor binds the c-Met receptor and induces cell dissociation but not mitogenesis," Proc. Nat.
5  Acad. Sci. USA Vol. 89, pp. 11574-11578, December 1992.
   The detail of the protein above (SEQ ID NO: 66) is shown below:
      Flag-Tag                                   AgRP7A (between slashes)
   DYKDDDDKPR//GCVRLHESCLGQQVPCCDPAATCYCSGRGDNDLVCYCR//YAEG
                          Loop 1      Loop 2      Loop 3         Loop 4
0                                                   NKJ
   QGKRRNTIHEFKKSAKTTLIKIDPALRIKTEKANTADQCANRCTRSKGLPFTCKAFVFDKA
   RKRCLWFPFNSMSSGVKKEFGHEFDLYENKAYIRDCIIGRGRNYRGTVSITKSGIKCQPWS
   AMIPHEHSFLPSSYRGEDLRENYCRNPRGEEGGPWCYTSDPEVRYEVCDIPQC
   SEVETRHHHHHH
5

           The His tag is underlined at the C terminus. The binding affinity of the AgRP7A
   Aras4 fusion protein was measured on K562-a,3 3 cells, which express both U,     3 integrin and
   Met-receptor (Figure 8). K562 leukemia cells were previously transfected with Uv33 integrin
   (Blystone, S. D. (1994). J. Cell Biol. 127, 1129-1137). We also showed by flow cytometry
 5 that these cell lines also naturally express Met receptor (data not shown).
   Knottins (EETI2.5F and AgRp7A) and NK1 fusion proteins were created and purified for the
   study of in vitro biological characteristics. Three different NK1 variants were fused to C
   terminus of the two distinct knottin proteins, including M2.2, M2.2(D127A) and Aras4.
   Therefore, six proteins composed of the following variations: AgRp7A-Aras4, EETI2.5F
 0 Aras4, AgRp7A-M2.2, EETI2.5F-M2.2, AgRp7A-M2.2(D127A) and EETI2.5F
   M2.2(D127A) were constructed and used for the in vitro assays. M2.2 was from the second
   round of directed evolution, Aras4 was from the third round of directed evolution from our
   previous NK1 filing. D127A is a point mutant that has previously been shown to modulate
   antagonistic activity).
 5         In K562-avf3 cell binding assays, the binding affinities (KD values) of AgRp7A
   M2.2(D127A) and EETI2.5F-M2.2(D127A) towards the Uv33 integrin in K562 cells
   transfected to express this integrin are 2.1 ± 1.1nM and 4.6 ± 1.6 nM. In HUVEC cell binding
   assays, the binding affinities (KD values) of AgRp7A-M2.2(D127A) and EETI2.5F
   M2.2(D127A) towards human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) are 9.4 ± 1.0 nM
 0 and 4.7 ± 0.6 nM. HUVECs express medium levels of the av03, Uv35 integrins, the Met
   receptor, and a high level of the a 5  1 integrin.
           In addition, a dual receptor direct binding assay showed that multi-specific proteins
   bind to Met and integrins simultaneously. In this experiment, a mixture of soluble Alexa-488
   labeled human Met-Fc (220 nM) and the mono-specific and the multi-specific proteins (2 or
,5 20 nM) were added to K562-av33 cells. Binding was detected by flow cytometry. AgRp7A
   M2.2, EETI2.5F-M2.2, AgRp7A-M2.2(D127A) and EETI2.5F-M2.2(D127A) were able to
   bind to soluble Met-Fc while engaged with av33 integrin on K562-avf3 cells. These results
   demonstrate that the knottin fusions can simultaneously bind to Uv33 integrin and Met
   receptor.
 0         Serum stability of AgRp7A-M2.2(D127A) and EETI2.5F-M2.2(D127A) was shown
   when the proteins were incubated with 40% human serum at 37'C for over several days.
   Samples were analyzed by Western Blot and detected with an antibody against the FLAG
   epitope tag. No significant decrease in the amount of intact fusion protein was observed over

   7 days, indicating stability of the knottin fusion proteins to serum proteases and elevated
   temperatures.
            A HUVEC proliferation assay was performed where cells were stimulated with 0.5
    nM HGF. AgRp7A, EETI2.5F, AgRp7A-M2.2(D127A), or EETI2.5F-M2.2(D127A)
 5  proteins were added to observe their effects on the inhibition of HUVEC proliferation.
    AgRp7A had little inhibitory effect on HUVECs proliferation. EETI2.5F alone showed good
    inhibition (70% inhibition at 1 pM, where cells alone = 90% inhibition). The knottin fusion
    proteins AgRp7A-M2.2(D 127A) and EETI2.5F-M2.2(D 127A) showed higher inhibitory
    effects on cell proliferation compared AgRp7A and EETI2.5F, approaching inhibition levels
 0  equivalent to that of the negative control.
            A Met receptor phosphorylation assay was performed in PC3 (prostate cancer cells).
   Met receptor phosphorylation was assayed by Western blot after stimulation with 0.3 nM
   HGF. AgRp7A, Aras4 and AgRp7A-Aras4 proteins were added to observe their effects on
   the inhibition of Met phosphorylation. AgRp7A did not show inhibition of Met
 5 phosphorylation. Dose dependent decreases in Met receptor phosphorylation were observed
   upon addition of Aras4 and AgRP7A-Aras4, with slightly higher inhibitory effects observed
   with the AgRP7A-Aras4 knottin fusion protein. (Note: PC3 cells express medium levels of
   the Uv3 3 integrin and Met, and low levels of the a 5 1 integrin).
            Inhibition of PC3 cell adhesion to vitronectin was performed by coating human
.0  vitronectin onto the wells of a microtiter plate and seeding cells in the presence of varying
    concentrations of Aras4, AgRp7A, EETI2.5F, AgRp7A-Aras4, or EETI2.5F-Aras4. Half
    maximal inhibitor concentration values for all constructs were similar and in the low nM
    range (-20-40 nM), except for Aras4, which did not inhibit PC3 cell adhesion, as expected.
,5 EXAMPLE 9: Knottin fusion directly fused to wild type Axl receptor fragment
            As described in Example 6, a direct fusion of the EETI knottin/integrin binding
   peptide to an Axl membrane bound kinase receptor was prepared. The Axl Ig 1 domain,
   amino acids 21-132 was used. By fusing EETI 2.5D to Axl Ig I, a multi-specific molecule
   was formed, capable of binding av33/av35 integrins and Gas6.
;0 The sequence is given below, where the knottin portion, 2.5D is underlined, and the Axl
   portion begins with the sequence RGT....
   GCPQGRGDWAPTSCSQDSDCLAGCVCGPNGFCGS/RGTQAEESPFVGNPGNITGARGLTGTL

    RCQLQVQGEPPEVHWLRDGQILELADSTQTQVPLGEDEQDDWIVVSQLRITSLQLSDTGQYQ
    CLVFLGHQTFVSQPGYVGLEGLP (SEQ ID NO: 84).
    The ability of the fusion protein to bind to either av 3 integrin or Gas6 was tested using the
    yeast display platform, wherein the EETI 2.5D-Axl fusion protein was cloned into a yeast
 5  display construct and displayed on the cell surface. Yeast expressing either EETI 2.5D, Axl
    Igl, or the EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein were incubated with varying concentrations of
    soluble avP3 integrin or Gas6. The binding reactions were allowed to come to equilibrium at
    which time excess ligand was removed by washing. Yeast were resuspended in a solution
    containing fluorescently labeled antibodies against the appropriate ligand (integrin or Gas6).
 0  Flow cytometry was used to quantify bound integrin or Gas6 through the detection of the
    secondary antibodies. These experiments, showed that EETI 2.5D and Axl IgI only bind
    avP3 integrin and Gas6, respectively, whereas the EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion binds both
    proteins at levels equivalent to their mono-specific components. This data demonstrates that
    the fusion of EETI 2.5D and Axl IgI does not disrupt binding to either target protein. Yeast
 5  expressing EETI 2.5D, wt Axl Ig I or EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion were incubated with 20, 50 or
    100 nM avP3 integrin. As expected, only EETI 2.5D and EETI 2.5D - Axl bind to integrin,
    as wt Axl has no native affinity towards this receptor. The same set of yeast samples were
    incubated with 0.2, 2 or 20 nM Gas6. Wild-type Axl and EETI 2.5D - Axl show affinity for
    Gas6, whereas no binding is detected to EETI 2.5D alone. In both cases, the EETI 2.5D - Axl
 0  fusion protein binds to integrin or Gas6 with affinities similar to its corresponding mono
    specific components.
            Next, the ability of the fusion to bind to both targets simultaneously was investigated
    by incubating yeast expressing EETI 2.5D - Axl with avP3 integrin in the presence of a
    saturating concentration of Gas6, or with Gas6 in the presence of a saturating concentration
,5  of avP3 integrin. These results are outlined in Figure 9. In both cases, the presence of an
    excess of the soluble second ligand does not substantially diminish binding to the primary
    ligand. These results indicate that binding of one target to the EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein
    does not prevent binding of the second, permitting simultaneous interactions with both Gas6
    and av 3 integrin.
 ;0         Referring to Figure 9, yeast-surface display binding data. In Fig. 9A, yeast were
    incubated with 20 or 100 nM Gas6 in the presence of 200 nM av 3 integrin. The bispecific
    protein maintains affinity to Gas6 when excess integrin is present. In Fig. 9B, yeast were
    incubated with 100 or 200 nM avP3 integrin in the presence of 100 nM Gas6. Affinity to

   av 3 integrin is not lost when Gas6 is present. Together, these experiments suggest that EETI
   2.5D - Axl is capable of simultaneously binding to both targets.
   EXAMPLE 10: Knottin fusion produced in recombinant yeast
           The EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein was then cloned into the pPic9K yeast secretion
 5 vector and soluble protein was recombinantly produced in the yeast strain P. pastoris
   according to the manufacturer's manual (Invitrogen). Protein was purified from culture
   supernatant using nickel affinity chromatography and heterogeneous yeast glycosylations
   were cleaved by treating the protein with endoglycosidase (endoH). Monomeric EETI 2.5D
   Axl protein was further purified using size exclusion chromatography. The purity of the final
 0 product was analyzed using SDS-PAGE, and analytical size exclusion chromatography.
   Highly pure, monomeric EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein was obtained at an approximate
   yield of 35 milligrams per liter.
           Recombinantly produced EETI 2.5D - Axl was tested for its ability to bind cell
   surface avP3 integrin. K562 leukemia cells that have been transfected to overexpress avP3
 5 integrin (K562-av33 cells) were incubated with varying concentrations of EETI 2.5D - Axl.
   Once the reactions reached equilibrium, excess EETI 2.5D - Axl was removed by washing
   and cells were resuspended in a solution containing a fluorescently labeled antibody against
   the FLAG epitope tag on the recombinant multispecific protein. Flow cytometry was then
   used to quantify the amount of bound EETI 2.5D - Axl by detecting the fluorescent anti
 0 FLAG antibody. The affinity (Kd) of the EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein to the K562-avP3
   cells was determined to be 1.72 nM. Additionally, circular dichroism spectroscopy was used
   to analyze the thermal stability of the EETI 2.5D - Axl fusion protein as compared to wt Axl.
   Wild-type Axl IgI was found to have a melting temperature (Tm) of 41 0 C. By fusing EETI
   2.5D to the N-terminus of Axl, an improvement of 11 oC in stability was observed (Tm ~ 52
,5 0 C). The results of these binding studies and CD experiments are summarized in the table
   below.
                                     Tm (oC)                       KD to avP3 integrin (nM)
   wt Axl Ig l                       41 ±0.6                       --
   2.5D - Axl Igl                    52 ±0.7                       1.72

           The specificity of the observed binding to the av 3 integrin expressed on K562-avP3
   cells was tested by incubating the cells with EETI 2.5D - Axl and cyclic RGD (cRGD). As
   EETI 2.5D binds to the same epitope on the integrin as the cRGD, a molar excess of cRGD
 5 will compete off EETI 2.5D - Axl if the protein is binding specifically to the integrins. cRGD
   inhibits the binding of EETI 2.5D - Axl to K562-av33 cells suggesting the protein is indeed
   binding specifically to av 3 integrin on the cell surface.
   EXAMPLE 11: Self-cleaving TEV-knottin fusion
           Several knottins are difficult to produce recombinantly as they produce high order
 0 oligomers rather than properly folded monomers. For example, while we have demonstrated
   robust methods for chemical synthesis and in vitro folding of EETI 2.5D using solid phase
   peptide synthesis, we have not been able to recombinantly express this knottin in a yeast
   based expression system. The observation that properly folded EETI 2.5D - Axl fusions
   could be produced in high recombinant yield led to the development of a self-cleaving TEV
 5 2.5D construct as a means to recombinantly produce knottins.
           In this fusion, the Tobacco Etch Virus (TEV) protease was fused to the EETI knottin
   variant 2.5D. TEV recognizes the eight amino acid sequence, which can be either
   SENLYFQS or GENLYFQG (SEQ ID NO: 82) wherein glycine (G) may be substituted with
   serine (S) in the amino acid sequence. TEV then cuts just prior to the last G/S. This cleavage
 0 site was placed at the C-terminus of the TEV protease, followed by EETI 2.5D. The first
   amino acid in EETI 2.5D is a glycine (G), thus to eliminate extra residues from being left
   post-cleavage, that glycine was removed. Upon translation, the protease portion of the fusion
   protein can interact with the cleavage sites of another fusion, cutting it and thereby generating
   free EETI 2.5D knottin.
 5         This autocleaving fusion protein was cloned into the pPic9K yeast secretion vector
   with N and C-terminal FLAG and 6x HIS tags, respectively, and transformed into the yeast
   strain P.pastoris according to the manufacturer's directions (Invitrogen). Western blots on the
   supernatant of expression cultures were probed for either the FLAG or HIS tag. The blots
   revealed that probing for the N-terminal flag tag shows a high molecular weight species
;0 corresponding to the TEV protease. Blots stained for the C-terminal 6xHIS tag show a -8kDa
   species which corresponds to the cleaved knottin. Based on these expression tests, this

   autocleaving construct is a viable method to recombinantly express knottins which are
   difficult to produce in standard microbial systems.
            The autocleaving construct permits recombinant production of knottins otherwise
   incapable of being produced in microbial systems. - This strategy could also be used to
 5 produce proteins besides knottins. Alternatively, a fusion partner such as Axl could be used
   to facilitate recombinant expression of knottins, with a protease cleavage site introduced in
   between the knottin and Axl proteins.
   EXAMPLE 12: Knottin-Fc fusions
            In this example, a mouse antibody Fc portion is fused to an integrin binding knottin,
 0 EETI as described above. Knottin-Fc fusions were created by molecular cloning and
   mammalian cell expression. These modified knottin proteins will have long circulation times
   (days) compared to unmodified knottins, which have half-lives on the order of minutes.
   Using this system, we showed that EETI-based knottin peptides 2.5D and 2.5F, and wild-type
   EETI-II, can be fused to an Fc domain of mouse Ig2a (SEQ ID NO: 83), and recombinantly
 5 expressed knottin-Fc fusion proteins in mammalian human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells.
   The Fc domain is a known sequence, see, e.g. Accession NM_010184.2 for an mRNA
   sequence. The knottin peptides were purified and run on a NuPAGE 4-12% Bis-Tris gel. The
   results showed the expected sizes of non-reduced (NR) and reduced (R) knottin 2.5D-Fc. The
   knottin proteins were then analyzed by gel filtration chromatography in which the purified
 0 knottin-Fc protein 2.5D showed no tendency to aggregate.
            The binding of the knottin-Fc proteins to tumor cell lines were then measured. The
   knottin 2.5F-Fc peptide was found to bind with a greater affinity to sk0v3 cells compared to
   the knottin 2.5D-Fc peptide when measured against wild-type EETII-Fc. In contrast, knottin
   2.5-Fc and 2.5D-Fc bound with similar affinity to K562 leukemia cells transfected with aXvP3
,5 integrin.
            In another tumor model, the ability of the knottin-Fc proteins to inhibit PC3 cell
   adhesion to the extracellular matrix (ECM) protein vitronectin was analyzed. Both of the
   knottin-Fc proteins strongly inhibited tumor cell adhesion, while the negative control did not.
   Results are shown in Figure 10. As the inhibition of integrin-ECM adhesion induces caspase
;0 mediated apoposis, this biological mechanism will be explored in future studies.
            This work is the first demonstration that an antibody Fc domain can be fused to a
   knottin protein without disrupting receptor binding affinity. This strategy will be a general

  platform for increasing half-life of engineered knottin proteins against a variety of biomedical
  targets besides integrins. It is also a potential platform to make dimeric proteins (as Fc
  fusions are bivalent), which can have increased binding affinity and increased or altered
  biological potency over monovalent knottins. Furthermore, Fc fusions can be used as a
5 framework to construct higher order oligomers or multivalent/multispecific proteins, similar
  to what has been done with antibody-based agents.
  CONCLUSION
          The above specific description is meant to exemplify and illustrate the invention and
0 should not be seen as limiting the scope of the invention, which is defined by the literal and
  equivalent scope of the appended claims. Any patents or publications mentioned in this
  specification are intended to convey details of methods and materials useful in carrying out
  certain aspects of the invention which may not be explicitly set out but which would be
  understood by workers in the field. Such patents or publications are hereby incorporated by
5 reference to the same extent as if each was specifically and individually incorporated by
  reference and contained herein, as needed for the purpose of describing and enabling the
  method or material referred to.

                                            CLAIMS
   1. A fusion protein, comprising:
 5     (a) a knottin polypeptide having therein a binding loop for binding to a first target;
               and
      (b) a second polypeptide having therein a sequence for binding to a second target, said
      second polypeptide being either (i) a cell surface receptor binding to said second
      target or (ii) a cell surface receptor ligand. binding to said second target.
 0
   2. The fusion protein of claim 1 wherein the knottin polypeptide is one of EETI-JI,
      AgRP, or agatoxin.
   3. The fusion protein of claim 1 wherein the knottin polypeptide is co-conotoxin.
 5
   4. The fusion protein of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the knottin polypeptide contains a non
      native sequence in its binding loop.
   5. The fusion protein of claim 4 wherein the non-native sequence mediates attachment
 0    between a cell and the tissues surrounding it.
   6. The fusion protein of claim 5 wherein the knottin polypeptide contains a sequence
      that mediates binding to one or more of (a) alpha v beta 3 integrin, (b) alpha v beta 5
      integrin, and (c) alpha 5 beta 1 integrin.
'5
   7. The fusion protein of claim 1 wherein the second polypeptide is an extracellular
      domain of a receptor tyrosine kinase.
   8. The fusion protein of claim 7 wherein the second polypeptide is a receptor tyrosine
;0    kinase Ig I domain.
   9. The fusion protein of claim 7 wherein the Ig I domain is from Axl, MuSK, or the FGF
      receptor.

   10. The fusion protein of claim 8 wherein the receptor tyrosine kinase is an Axl receptor.
   11. The fusion protein of claim 9 wherein the knottin polypeptide is selected from the
5      group consisting of EETI-II, AgRP, and agatoxin.
   12. The fusion protein of claim 11 wherein the binding loop is engineered to bind to one
       or more of (a) alpha v beta 3 integrin, (b) alpha v beta 5 integrin, and (c) alpha 5 beta
       1 integrin.
0
   13. A fusion protein according to claim 1, comprising:
        (a) an EETI-II or AgRP knottin polypeptide comprising a binding loop with high
       affinity to an integrin; and
       (b) a polypeptide selected from the group consisting of (i) an Axl extracellular
5      domain and (ii) NK1 fragment of hepatocyte growth factor.
   14. A method for preparing a fusion protein according to claim 1, comprising the steps of:
        (a) preparing a library having a number of DNA constructs encoding the fusion
       protein and a number of randomized DNA sequences within the DNA constructs;
.0      (b) expressing the DNA constructs in the library in yeast, wherein expressed DNA
       constructs are displayed as polypeptides with randomized sequences on the yeast
       surface;
       (c) screening the clones for binding of the expressed DNA constructs to the first target
       or the second target by contacting the clones with a target;
       (d) selecting clones that express translated DNA constructs that bind with high
       affinity to the target; and
       (e) obtaining the coding sequences of the selected clones, whereby said fusion protein
       may be prepared.
   15. The method of claim 14 wherein the knottin is one of EETI-II, AgRp, agatoxin, or
       conotoxin.

   16. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the second polypeptide is selected from the
       group consisting of a receptor fragment comprising a ligand binding site and a ligand
       fragment comprising a site that binds to a receptor for the ligand.
 5 17. The method of claim 14 or 15 wherein the second polypeptide is a tyrosine kinase
       receptor fragment.
   18. The method of claim 16 wherein the second polypeptide is a growth factor
       fragment.
 0
   19. The method of claim 16 wherein the second polypeptide comprises a polypeptide
       selected from the group consisting of Axl, c-Met, HGF, VEGF, VEGF receptor, and
       Gas6.
 5 20. The method of claim 16 wherein the knottin polypeptide is EETI-JI.
   21. The method of claim 15 wherein the knottin is engineered to bind to an integrin.
   22. The method of claim 21 wherein the integrin is at least one of (a) alpha v beta 3
 0     integrin, (b) alpha v beta 5 integrin, and (c) alpha 5 beta 1 integrin.
   23. The method of claim 15 wherein the knottin is EETI-JI engineered in loop 1 and
       loop 3.
 5 24. A method for inhibiting binding of a ligand to a receptor, comprising the steps of:
       (a) administering an amount of a soluble fusion protein comprising (i) a polypeptide
       encoding an extracellular domain of a receptor to be inhibited and (ii) a knottin
       polypeptide having a loop domain engineered to bind to a cell surface receptor that is
       not the receptor to be inhibited.
;0
   25. The method of claim 22 wherein the cell surface receptor is an integrin.
   26. The method of claim 21 or 22 wherein the receptor to be inhibited is a receptor
       tyrosine kinase.

27. The method of claim 25 wherein the tyrosine kinase is a TAM receptor tyrosine
    kinase.
         The Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University
             Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                            SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                         60

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                              <U+271D><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270C><U+270F><U+2711><U+270C> <U+2720><U+2712><U+271D><U+2713><U+2712><U+270F><U+2714>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2719><U+2722> <U+2713><U+271B><U+270E><U+271D><U+2713><U+270C><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2719><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270C> <U+2720><U+270C><U+2720><U+271A><U+270F><U+271C> <U+271D><U+2713><U+271A><U+270F><U+2722><U+2719><U+271B><U+271C> <U+2723><U+270E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2719><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2712><U+2724><U+270C><U+271B><U+271D><U+2712><U+2713><U+2725>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2726><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271D><U+2712><U+2719><U+270F> <U+271B><U+2719><U+2713><U+270C><U+2712><U+270F><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2719><U+2727> <U+271B><U+2712><U+271D><U+2712><U+270F><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2714><U+2712><U+270F><U+270C><U+270C><U+271B><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2605><U+270F><U+2719><U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+270F>             <U+270C> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271C><U+270C> <U+271A><U+270F><U+271C>
                    <U+270E><U+271D><U+270C><U+271D> <U+2713><U+2717><U+270C><U+271B><U+270C><U+2719><U+2722>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2729><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2729><U+272A><U+260E><U+2704><U+272B><U+272C><U+2729> <U+2711><U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+272D><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+272D><U+260E><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2706><U+260E><U+272E><U+272D><U+260E><U+260E><U+272F><U+2729><U+2704><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2704><U+260E><U+2716> <U+2726><U+2701><U+260E><U+2701><U+2730><U+260E><U+260E><U+2730><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+2716> <U+272A><U+272C>
              <U+2715><U+260E><U+2702><U+2701><U+2716>     <U+2731><U+261E><U+271E><U+2732><U+261E><U+2712><U+2732> <U+2733><U+271E><U+2734><U+261B><U+2721><U+2735><U+2732> <U+2729><U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716> <U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+2716> <U+2726><U+272A>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+2716> <U+271B><U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2729><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2737><U+2731><U+2738><U+2738><U+2721><U+2739><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2738><U+2731><U+261E><U+271E><U+2734><U+2721><U+2739><U+273A>
              <U+2715><U+272D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B>    <U+2734><U+2735> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2712><U+2738><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739> <U+2727><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+2732> <U+271A><U+261B><U+273D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2734> <U+271A><U+261B><U+273D> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739>
              <U+260E>                 <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+2738><U+2731> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B>    <U+2734><U+2735> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2732> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B>    <U+273E><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B>
                          <U+2726><U+2701>                    <U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+2716> <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+2716> <U+271B><U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2729><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2736><U+2737><U+2731><U+2738><U+2738><U+2721><U+2739><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2738><U+2731><U+261E><U+271E><U+2734><U+2721><U+2739><U+273A>
              <U+2715><U+272D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2726>
              <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B>    <U+2734><U+2735> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2712><U+2738><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739> <U+2727><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+2732> <U+271A><U+261B><U+273D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2734> <U+271A><U+261B><U+273D> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739>
              <U+260E>                 <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+2738><U+2731> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2738> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B>    <U+2734><U+2735> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2732> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B>    <U+273E><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2734>     <U+2734><U+2735>
                          <U+2726><U+2701>                    <U+2726><U+2704>                       <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2729>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+2716> <U+272D><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+2716> <U+271B><U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+260E><U+2729><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2734><U+261E><U+2721><U+273F><U+2721><U+2736><U+2721><U+2731><U+2738> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2739><U+271E><U+2732><U+2736><U+271E>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2726><U+2701><U+2716>
              <U+2715><U+2726><U+2726><U+2729><U+2716> <U+271C><U+271E><U+261B><U+2736><U+2734><U+2721><U+273D><U+261E><U+2721><U+2735><U+2732> <U+2735><U+273F> <U+271A><U+2734><U+261E><U+2721><U+273F><U+2721><U+2736><U+2721><U+2731><U+2738> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2739><U+271E><U+2732><U+2736><U+271E><U+2740> <U+271D><U+273B><U+2732><U+261E><U+273E><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2736>
                    <U+273D><U+2735><U+2738><U+273B><U+273D><U+271E><U+273D><U+261E><U+2721><U+2741><U+271E>
              <U+2715><U+272D><U+2701><U+2701><U+2716> <U+2729>
              <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2738> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739> <U+2717><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+2739> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2734> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2714><U+2738><U+2732> <U+2714><U+2738><U+2732> <U+2724><U+2731><U+2738> <U+2734><U+2735> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+273D>    <U+2734><U+2735> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2738><U+2731> <U+2713><U+273E><U+2734> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2713><U+273B><U+2734> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C>       <U+273E><U+271E>   <U+273E><U+271E> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2732> <U+271A><U+2738><U+2731>    <U+273E><U+271E> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B>
                            <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+2704>                        <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+273B><U+2734> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2720><U+273B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2739> <U+2714><U+2738><U+273B> <U+2713><U+273E><U+2734> <U+271A><U+2738><U+2731> <U+2727><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2732>         <U+2734><U+2735> <U+2711><U+273B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2734> <U+271A><U+2734><U+273C> <U+2713><U+273E><U+2734>
                      <U+2729><U+2704>                  <U+272D><U+2701>                         <U+272D><U+2704>
                                                      <U+2731><U+273C><U+271E> <U+260E>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271A><U+271E><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271C><U+271E><U+261B><U+2717><U+2715><U+2721><U+2722><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271A><U+271E><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271B><U+261E><U+2726><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717>
                    <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2725><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270F><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F>
              <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271B> <U+272A><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2722>   <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B>   <U+2726><U+271E>   <U+2726><U+271E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718>   <U+2726><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B>
                           <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+272D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+272B><U+271E><U+2719><U+271E><U+271B><U+2723><U+2722><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2718><U+2722><U+271E><U+2715><U+261E><U+2718>
              <U+270C><U+270F><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2719><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2725><U+2715> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2720><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B>   <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2715> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+272E><U+2719><U+271E> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2713><U+2726><U+2715>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2726><U+2715>   <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+271A> <U+272E><U+2719><U+271E> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2720><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2715>     <U+2726><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>                   <U+270F><U+2701>                  <U+270F><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271A><U+271E><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271C><U+271E><U+261B><U+2717><U+2715><U+2721><U+2722><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271A><U+271E><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271B><U+261E><U+2726><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717>
                    <U+2722><U+2723><U+2719><U+2725><U+2722><U+271E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270F><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2715><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2722> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2726><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2715><U+2722> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+271B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2719><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725>     <U+2715><U+2723> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725>   <U+2726><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                     <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2719><U+2725>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+2702>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271A><U+271E><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2711><U+270E> <U+271C><U+271E><U+261B><U+2717><U+2715><U+2721><U+2722><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2715><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2721><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271A><U+271E><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E><U+2724> <U+271D><U+2725><U+271B><U+261E><U+2726><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717>
                                                  <U+2718><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270D>

                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A>       <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>     <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                     <U+2724><U+2704>                   <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2726>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271A>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                      <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+272D>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+272D>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B>        <U+271A><U+270D> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                      <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2701>
                                                    <U+2718><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2725>

                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271A>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>                <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>              <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                              <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271C><U+2723><U+271A>   <U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>            <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>                <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                            <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>              <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                              <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2724>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2724>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B>   <U+271A><U+270D>       <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722>    <U+271A><U+270D>     <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271C><U+2723><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>                  <U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>              <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                              <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2725>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+271A><U+270D>                <U+271A><U+270D>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                                <U+260E><U+2704>
                                                          <U+2718><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2713>

                                               P075166D1 Seq List
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>            <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                            <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2713>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A>   <U+271A><U+270D>       <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722>    <U+271A><U+270D>   <U+271A><U+270D>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>                  <U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>            <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                            <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>           <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>        <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                        <U+2724><U+2704>                      <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>           <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>        <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                        <U+2724><U+2704>                      <U+2725><U+2701>
                                                        <U+2718><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2704>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2702>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2723><U+271E>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>    <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                   <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+2726>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+271A><U+270D>       <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271C><U+2723><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                   <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+272D>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+260E><U+272D>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                   <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                 <U+2718><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2706>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>     <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2715><U+270E><U+272A> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                      <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2724><U+260E>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>     <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+272A> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>      <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                  <U+2724><U+2704>                      <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2724>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714> <U+2725><U+2725>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2727><U+271C>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+260E><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2712><U+2724><U+2724><U+2725><U+2714> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2729><U+271A><U+2721><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2605> <U+2719><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2605><U+2721><U+2729><U+2721><U+2718><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+272A><U+271E><U+2722><U+2729><U+271E><U+272C> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2722><U+261E><U+2723><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2729>
                    <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+271E><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2711><U+271E>
              <U+2712><U+2713><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2724>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271C><U+271A><U+270C> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718>     <U+271A><U+270D>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+2722>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2719><U+261B><U+270C> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>   <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+270E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>     <U+271A><U+270D> <U+2719><U+261B><U+2722> <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+2723><U+271E> <U+2716><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+2724><U+2701>                   <U+2724><U+2704>                     <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+270E><U+270F>
                                                  <U+2718><U+271B><U+271E> <U+2702>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+270F>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>    <U+2714><U+2722>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>     <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                     <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2727>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>     <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>     <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                     <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>     <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>     <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                     <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
                                                 <U+2717><U+272A><U+271E> <U+272C>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2722>       <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+270F><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2702>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+2702>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+270D><U+2704>                   <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+272C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D><U+272C>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>                <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
                                                  <U+2717><U+272A><U+271E>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270D>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>   <U+2714><U+2722>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+270D><U+2704>                   <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2721><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2722>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
                                                  <U+2717><U+272A><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2701>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270D>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2722>      <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                    <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2727>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717>    <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+270D><U+2704>                   <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2714><U+2722>      <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
                                                <U+2717><U+272A><U+271E> <U+260E><U+260E>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                   <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>   <U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C>
                           <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A>
                      <U+270F><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2702>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2702>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>   <U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A>
                           <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+270F><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A>
                      <U+270F><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2711><U+2712>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F><U+270E> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+2714><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270E> <U+270F><U+272C>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>   <U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C>   <U+2714><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2713><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2725><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2724><U+2714> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272B><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2714><U+272A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+261B><U+271A>
                                                  <U+2717><U+272A><U+271E> <U+260E><U+270D>

                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                            <U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+270C><U+2704>                    <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2718>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2719>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2718>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>
                            <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717>   <U+272B><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717>   <U+2706>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717>   <U+2725><U+2730><U+2714>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2727><U+2723><U+2721><U+2715><U+2727><U+2724><U+270E><U+271C><U+2723><U+271E><U+2727><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2715><U+2715>                                                              <U+2706>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+260E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+260E><U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+260E>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                    <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2713><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+2727>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+272B><U+2701>                     <U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724>
                      <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2727>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                  <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2702><U+2704>
                                                    <U+2722><U+2715><U+271E> <U+260E><U+270D>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+2719><U+2701>                  <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2718><U+2701>                   <U+2718><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>
                              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723>   <U+2729><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>
                          <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+270C><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>   <U+2729><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                      <U+260E><U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+272B><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>    <U+2713><U+2727>
                    <U+260E><U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+270C>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+270C>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+270D>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270D>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+270D>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                   <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+272B>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                                                 <U+2722><U+2715><U+271E> <U+260E><U+272B>

                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+272B>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>
              <U+260E>                <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270D>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>     <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                     <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2706>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+260E><U+272B><U+272B>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2706>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>     <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                     <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2713><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+2727>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+272B><U+2701>                     <U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724>
                          <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2727>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                      <U+2706><U+2704>                     <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723>      <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                  <U+2719><U+2701>                  <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2718><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>
              <U+2718><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
                                                 <U+2722><U+2715><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2704>

                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2729><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>
                              <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+270C><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>    <U+2729><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+260E><U+270D><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+270D><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+272B><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>   <U+2713><U+2727>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270D>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2702>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270D>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2719>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                     <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>     <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                     <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717>   <U+272B><U+2718>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717>   <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717>    <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717>   <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717>   <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                      <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+272B><U+2718>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>     <U+2713><U+2727> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                      <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
                                                     <U+2722><U+2715><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2706>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+260E><U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E>    <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                    <U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2713><U+2727>   <U+2729><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+2727>
                      <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+272B><U+2701>                     <U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724>
                      <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2727>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                  <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723>     <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
              <U+2719><U+2701>                  <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2718><U+2701>                     <U+2718><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2731><U+2723><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>
                              <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723>      <U+2729><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>
                          <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+270C><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+270C><U+2704>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+272E><U+2721><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713>   <U+2729><U+271E> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724>   <U+2713><U+2727> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                      <U+260E><U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+272B><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E>    <U+2713><U+2727>
                    <U+260E><U+272B><U+2704>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+2701><U+2717> <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2717> <U+270D><U+270D>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270C><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2712>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+260E><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+2701><U+2717>
              <U+2716><U+270C><U+270C><U+270D><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271E><U+261B><U+271C><U+2713><U+2721><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+2727><U+2724> <U+2727><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+271B><U+2721><U+271C><U+2721><U+2722><U+2723> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+270E><U+271E><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+2605> <U+271D><U+270F><U+2724><U+261E><U+2729><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+271C>
                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723><U+270F><U+2726><U+271E><U+2726><U+261E><U+2721><U+272A><U+271E>
              <U+2716><U+272B><U+2701><U+2701><U+2717> <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2726> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2715> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+261B><U+2726> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2723><U+2722> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272D><U+2722><U+2723> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+270E> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B>     <U+2713><U+2727> <U+2712><U+2729><U+2713> <U+272F><U+271E><U+261E> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270F><U+261B> <U+272C><U+2723><U+270F>
                          <U+270C><U+2701>                  <U+270C><U+2704>                     <U+270D><U+2701>
                                                    <U+2722><U+2715><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2702>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+270E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2706>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
<removed-apn>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+270E>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                  <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2711>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                   <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2727>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2727>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                  <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
                                                  <U+2717><U+272B><U+271E> <U+260E><U+272D>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>    <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                     <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2701><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>    <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2701><U+271E><U+261E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                    <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C>    <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B>     <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                     <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
                                                    <U+2717><U+272B><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2702>

                                              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+272D>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+272D>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>     <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                      <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2704><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B>    <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+270C><U+2722>    <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
              <U+260E>                <U+2704>                      <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2727>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+260E>
              <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>      <U+270C><U+2722>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+270C><U+2722>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
                           <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                  <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>   <U+270C><U+2722>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                                                   <U+2717><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2701>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                         <U+2711><U+2704>                   <U+2727><U+2701>                     <U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>    <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718>       <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                    <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C>     <U+2718><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B>      <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                     <U+2702><U+2704>                      <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>
                              <U+272D><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>    <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>      <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>   <U+270C><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+270E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2727>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+270E>
              <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>         <U+270C><U+2722>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+270C><U+2722>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                          <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>    <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
                            <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                  <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>    <U+270C><U+2722>    <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>                      <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>    <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718>       <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                    <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C>     <U+2718><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B>      <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                     <U+2702><U+2704>                      <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>
                              <U+272D><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>    <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>      <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>   <U+270C><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2727>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
                                                       <U+2717><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270E><U+260E>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2711>
              <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>         <U+270C><U+2722>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+270C><U+2722>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                          <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>     <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
                             <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                  <U+2711><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>      <U+270C><U+2722>    <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>                        <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>    <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271E><U+261E>       <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                    <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C>       <U+2718><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B>     <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                       <U+2702><U+2704>                     <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>
                              <U+272D><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>     <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>     <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>   <U+270C><U+2722>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2727>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2711>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2712><U+2713>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E><U+2711><U+270F> <U+271B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2716><U+270C><U+2721><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271A> <U+2722><U+2715> <U+2714><U+270C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2715><U+2721><U+2716><U+2721><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2719><U+271E><U+271A><U+2716><U+271E><U+2723> <U+271D><U+2724><U+271A><U+261E><U+2725><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2716>
                    <U+271C><U+2722><U+2718><U+2724><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+2726><U+271E>
              <U+270D><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2706><U+2727>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717>         <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                         <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>         <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B>
                          <U+270E><U+2701>                  <U+270E><U+2704>                         <U+2711><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2724><U+270C>      <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>
                      <U+2711><U+2704>                      <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C>    <U+270C><U+2722>   <U+2725><U+271E> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>    <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271A>   <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719>
                    <U+2704><U+2701>                     <U+2704><U+2704>                   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2729><U+2724><U+261B> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>         <U+270C><U+2722>   <U+270C><U+2722> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>                          <U+272D><U+2701>
              <U+272A><U+2717><U+2718> <U+272C><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2713><U+270C><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+270C><U+272B> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2724> <U+2605><U+2718><U+271A>       <U+2718><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2605><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2719> <U+2714><U+2718><U+2717> <U+2714><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2725><U+270C>
                                                      <U+2717><U+272B><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
                                <U+270C><U+2704>                    <U+270D><U+2701>                      <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F>    <U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                      <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>          <U+2714><U+2717>
                  <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718>       <U+2714><U+2717>
              <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2723><U+2729> <U+272A><U+2712>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2726><U+2729> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272D><U+271E><U+261B><U+272C><U+2714><U+2721><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2719><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C>
                    <U+271B><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719><U+271B><U+271E><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+272F><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>          <U+2714><U+2717>   <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711>   <U+2714><U+2717>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>
                          <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2704>                  <U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718>     <U+2714><U+2717>    <U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                      <U+2726><U+2704>                       <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F>          <U+2714><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>                  <U+270C><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718>
                              <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>     <U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B>       <U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                       <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716>   <U+2714><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                  <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>    <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>     <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>
                                                         <U+2716><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2726>

                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2723><U+2726><U+270D>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2723><U+2729> <U+272A><U+2712>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2726><U+2729> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272D><U+271E><U+261B><U+272C><U+2714><U+2721><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2719><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C>
                    <U+271B><U+2717><U+270F><U+2719><U+271B><U+271E><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+272F><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B>       <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2714><U+2717> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B>            <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                          <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2704>                           <U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722>
                      <U+2726><U+2704>                  <U+2727><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718>           <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B>         <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>                         <U+270C><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                              <U+270C><U+2704>                  <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>
              <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718>   <U+2714><U+2717>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716>      <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                       <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2713><U+271E>        <U+2714><U+2717>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>    <U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                      <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>                          <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718>   <U+2713><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718>      <U+2713><U+271E> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716>
                  <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>                     <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711>         <U+2714><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F><U+2716>    <U+271E><U+261E>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                        <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2717> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714>    <U+2713><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718>    <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B>
                           <U+260E><U+270C><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+270C><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+270D><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2718> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+271A><U+261B><U+2711>       <U+2714><U+2717> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>      <U+2714><U+2717>
                      <U+260E><U+270D><U+2704>                 <U+2723><U+2701><U+2701>                      <U+2723><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+2714><U+271B> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2712><U+2719><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271A><U+261B><U+271B> <U+271C><U+270F><U+271E>
                  <U+2723><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+260E><U+2704>                <U+2723><U+2723><U+2701>
               <U+2714><U+2717> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2711> <U+2724><U+2719><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2718> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271A><U+2714><U+2722> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2725><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2723><U+2723><U+2704>                 <U+2723><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+2723><U+2726><U+2704>
                                                         <U+2716><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2727>

                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2701><U+2729>   <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2723><U+2729>   <U+272D> <U+271A>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2726><U+2729>   <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272D><U+271E><U+261B><U+272C><U+2714><U+2721><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2719><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C>
                    <U+271B><U+2714><U+2721><U+2701><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+260E><U+270D><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2726><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+270C><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2727><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+270C><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+272C><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2722><U+272C><U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+261E> <U+2722><U+261E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+272C><U+2716><U+2716><U+2722><U+2716> <U+261E><U+261E><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2716><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E> <U+2722><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E>                                                    <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2701><U+2729>   <U+2706><U+270C>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2723><U+2729>   <U+272D> <U+271A>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2726><U+2729>   <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272D><U+271E><U+261B><U+272C><U+2714><U+2721><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2719><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C>
                    <U+271B><U+2714><U+2721><U+2701><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+260E><U+270D><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
                                                   <U+2716><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2704>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2726><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+270C><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2727><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+270C><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2727><U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+270C>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+272C><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2722><U+272C><U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2711><U+261B><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+272C><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2722><U+2716><U+261E><U+261E><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2716><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+2722><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722> <U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E>                                                 <U+2702><U+270C>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2701><U+2729>   <U+2706><U+270D>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2729>   <U+270C><U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2723><U+2729>   <U+272D> <U+271A>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2726><U+2729>   <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272D><U+271E><U+261B><U+272C><U+2714><U+2721><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2719><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C>
                    <U+271B><U+2714><U+2721><U+2701><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+260E><U+270D><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2726><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+270C><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
                                                   <U+2716><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2706>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2727><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2702><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+270C><U+2706>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2727><U+260E><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2727><U+2726><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2727><U+2727><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2727><U+2701><U+2701><U+2729> <U+2706><U+270D>
              <U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+272C><U+261E><U+2716> <U+2722><U+272C><U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2711><U+2711><U+261B><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+272C><U+2716><U+2716><U+2722><U+2716><U+261E><U+261E><U+272C><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2722><U+2716><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+2722> <U+272C><U+261E><U+2722><U+2722><U+261E><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E><U+2722><U+261E> <U+261E>                                             <U+270C><U+260E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2701><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+260E><U+2729>   <U+270C><U+2727>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2723><U+2729>   <U+272D> <U+271A>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+260E><U+2726><U+2729>   <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+272D><U+271E><U+261B><U+272C><U+2714><U+2721><U+271B><U+261E><U+2721><U+2717><U+2711> <U+2717><U+272B> <U+271A><U+2714><U+261E><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+2716><U+270F> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2718><U+271E><U+2711><U+272C><U+271E><U+272E> <U+271D><U+2719><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C>
                    <U+271B><U+2714><U+2721><U+2701><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+260E><U+270D><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2701><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2723><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2726><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+2706><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2723><U+270C><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2723><U+270D><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2723><U+2706>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2726><U+2729> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+272C><U+271E> <U+261E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+271E> <U+2718><U+2711><U+271F><U+2711><U+2717><U+2720><U+2711> <U+2717><U+2714> <U+2717><U+261E><U+2713><U+271E><U+2714>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2701><U+2729>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+260E><U+2729> <U+2701><U+2717><U+272F><U+2721><U+272B><U+2721><U+271E><U+272F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2716><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+2605><U+2723><U+2723><U+2723><U+2729> <U+260E><U+2726><U+2727><U+2706><U+271D><U+271D><U+260E><U+2726><U+2704><U+2706>
                                                   <U+2716><U+2722><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2702>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2702><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2729><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+272A><U+2701><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+272A><U+260E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+272A><U+270E><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+272A><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+272A><U+2706><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+272A><U+2702><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E><U+2714><U+261E><U+2716><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2714><U+2711><U+261E>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+261E><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2711><U+261E><U+261E><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E>                                          <U+2729><U+272A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>   <U+2702><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271A><U+2721><U+271C><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2701><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+260E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+270E><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2706><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+2702><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2732><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2701><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+270D><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+270E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2704><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2706><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+260E>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2714><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2729>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2714><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714> <U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2714>                                                                  <U+2706><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>   <U+2702><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271A><U+2721><U+271C><U+271E><U+271A>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2701><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+260E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+270E><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2706><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+2702><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2732><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2701><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+270D><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+270E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2704><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2706><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2729><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2732><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+270D>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2714><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2713><U+2711><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>                                                               <U+2706><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>   <U+2702><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>   <U+2706><U+2729>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271A><U+2721><U+271C><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2701><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+260E><U+2727>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2714><U+271E> <U+270D><U+2732>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+270E><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+272A><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2706><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270D><U+2702><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2732><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2701><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+270D><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+270E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2704><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2706><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2729><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+2732><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+271C><U+2718><U+2722><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+271E><U+2722><U+2724><U+2725><U+2711><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+272A><U+260E><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+272A><U+270D><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2712> <U+2713><U+2712> <U+261E><U+2712> <U+2714><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2716><U+2718><U+2719><U+2716> <U+2718><U+271A> <U+2718><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+270E>
              <U+2713><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2714><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716> <U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B><U+2716><U+2716><U+261B> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711>   <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+2713><U+2711><U+2711><U+261E><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714>                                                            <U+2706><U+2729>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>   <U+2702><U+272A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>   <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271A><U+2721><U+271C><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+272A>
              <U+261E><U+261E><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2714><U+2711><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2714><U+2714><U+2711><U+2713><U+261E><U+261E><U+261E><U+2713><U+261E> <U+261E><U+2713><U+2711><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2714> <U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2713><U+261E> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2711><U+2713><U+2711>       <U+2704><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>   <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>   <U+2704><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>   <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271A><U+2721><U+271C><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714> <U+261E><U+261E><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E> <U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E><U+2713><U+261E><U+2714> <U+2713><U+261E><U+2711><U+2714><U+2713><U+2714><U+2714><U+261E><U+261E><U+2714> <U+261E>            <U+2704><U+260E>
                                                   <U+2711><U+2714><U+271E> <U+270E><U+2701>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+270E><U+2729>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+2718><U+272E><U+2731><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271A><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F>   <U+271A><U+2718> <U+272D><U+272E><U+2711> <U+272D><U+272E><U+2711> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2731><U+271A> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2731><U+271A> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F> <U+272D><U+261B><U+2716> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F>
                           <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2701><U+2731><U+271A> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2714>
                      <U+270E><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2706>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+2706><U+271D><U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+261E><U+2711><U+2714>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2706><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2729>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+272A>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2729>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2732>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2702><U+2732>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2702>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+2701><U+2718><U+2725><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271E><U+261E><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271A><U+2715><U+261B>
                                                  <U+2711><U+2714><U+271E> <U+270E><U+260E>

                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2729><U+2701>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2715> <U+272D><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2731><U+271A> <U+271B><U+271E> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F> <U+272A><U+260E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272B><U+271E><U+261B><U+2713><U+271A><U+2721><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2723> <U+272D><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+2723><U+2721><U+2713><U+2721><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2715><U+271E><U+2716><U+2713><U+271E><U+2730> <U+271D><U+2731><U+2716><U+261E><U+271B><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+2713>
                    <U+272F><U+2718><U+272E><U+2731><U+272F><U+271E><U+272F><U+261E><U+2721><U+2722><U+271E>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2701><U+272B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270E><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+260E><U+270D><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2716><U+2731> <U+2711><U+271C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2721><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2722> <U+261E><U+271B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2714><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+271C><U+2711><U+2731> <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701> <U+271A><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2722><U+2715><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261E><U+271B>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+2701><U+270F>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+260E><U+270F> <U+2701><U+272B><U+2724> <U+2702><U+271D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2726><U+270D><U+2706><U+2727><U+2605><U+2605><U+2726><U+270E><U+270E><U+2727>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F> <U+272D><U+2716><U+2731> <U+2711><U+271C><U+2721><U+2716><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2721><U+2722> <U+2711><U+2716><U+2722> <U+261E><U+271B><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271A><U+271E><U+2714><U+2721><U+2718><U+2716> <U+271C><U+2711><U+2731> <U+2725><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2704><U+2729> <U+271A><U+271E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2722><U+2715><U+271E><U+261B> <U+2721><U+2716> <U+272E><U+271E><U+2716><U+2714><U+261E><U+271B>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2729><U+260E>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+272D><U+272E><U+2711> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711>
                          <U+270D><U+2701>                  <U+270D><U+2704>                  <U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+260E><U+2711><U+2711> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+272D><U+272E><U+2711> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2715>
                      <U+270E><U+2704>                  <U+272A><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>    <U+2729><U+270D>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>    <U+2729>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>       <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>     <U+2701><U+2718><U+2725><U+2711><U+2713><U+2713><U+2718> <U+271E><U+261E><U+2713><U+271B> <U+271E><U+2721><U+271A><U+2715><U+261B>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2729><U+270D>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2715> <U+272D><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2701><U+2731><U+271A>     <U+271B><U+271E> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+2701><U+270F>    <U+2729><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+260E><U+270F>    <U+270D><U+270E><U+270E>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270D><U+270F>       <U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+260E><U+270E><U+270F>    <U+271C><U+2718><U+2715><U+261B><U+271E>
              <U+270C><U+272A><U+2701><U+2701><U+270F> <U+2729><U+270E>
              <U+2702><U+272E><U+2715> <U+271A><U+2718> <U+272D><U+271A><U+2714> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+271A><U+2718> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2706><U+272E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2731><U+261B>        <U+271A><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B>   <U+271A><U+2718>   <U+271A><U+2718> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2720><U+2731><U+261B> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B>     <U+271A><U+2718>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+272D><U+272E><U+2711>     <U+271A><U+2718> <U+272D><U+261B><U+2716> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2731>   <U+271A><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E>   <U+271B><U+271E> <U+2706><U+272E><U+271E>   <U+271B><U+271E>    <U+271A><U+2718>   <U+271A><U+2718> <U+2720><U+2731><U+261B>
                             <U+270D><U+2701>                   <U+270D><U+2704>                      <U+270E><U+2701>
              <U+2706><U+272E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+2731><U+261B> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715>     <U+271E><U+261E> <U+2706><U+272E><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2715> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A>    <U+271A><U+2718> <U+2706><U+272E><U+271E> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+2701><U+271B><U+271A> <U+2704><U+2731><U+261B> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E>
                      <U+270E><U+2704>                     <U+272A><U+2701>                    <U+272A><U+2704>
              <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2715> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F>      <U+271A><U+2718> <U+272D><U+261B><U+272F> <U+260E><U+2711><U+272E> <U+2702><U+272E><U+2716> <U+2706><U+272E><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271A> <U+2701><U+271A><U+272F>       <U+271B><U+271E>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                      <U+2706><U+2701>
                                                     <U+2711><U+2714><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270D>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>                  <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>            <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                            <U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>
                         <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                  <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>      <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+271C>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E>
                  <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>            <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E>    <U+2717><U+271C>
              <U+260E><U+2605><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                             <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717>          <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E>
                          <U+260E><U+2719><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2719><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>
                      <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                  <U+2726><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2704>                    <U+2726><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+272A>     <U+2719><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+272A>     <U+260E><U+2605><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+272A>      <U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+270F><U+2717><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+272D><U+270D><U+270E> <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+271D><U+271B><U+2711><U+261E><U+2716><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272D> <U+271A><U+271C><U+270E><U+271B><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A> <U+2719><U+2605>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>           <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>
              <U+260E>              <U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2701>                           <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>            <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>
                          <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+2704>                            <U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>          <U+2717><U+271C>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>    <U+2717><U+271C>
                      <U+2727><U+2704>                  <U+2605><U+2701>                            <U+2605><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>        <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>
                                                        <U+270D><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2727>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                        <U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+2702><U+2704>                      <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>              <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>
                              <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                              <U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>              <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>
                      <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>
                  <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>     <U+2717><U+271C>
              <U+260E><U+2605><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+272A>        <U+2719><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+272A>        <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+272A>         <U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2727><U+272A>        <U+270F><U+2717><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+272D><U+270D><U+270E> <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+272A>        <U+271D><U+271B><U+2711><U+261E><U+2716><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272D> <U+271A><U+271C><U+270E><U+271B><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A>        <U+2719><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>          <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                           <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>             <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                          <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+2704>                            <U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+2727><U+2704>                  <U+2605><U+2701>                  <U+2605><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>              <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>            <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>                            <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                              <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>        <U+2717><U+271C>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271E>           <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>
                      <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                          <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>
                  <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                   <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                 <U+270D><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2605>

                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+260E><U+2605><U+2704>                       <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                       <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>             <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                            <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>       <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>
                             <U+260E><U+2719><U+2701>                        <U+260E><U+2719><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>            <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>     <U+2717><U+271C>
                      <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2701><U+2701>                           <U+2726><U+2701><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>
                  <U+2726><U+260E><U+2701>                         <U+2726><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>
               <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+272A>     <U+2719><U+2706>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+272A>     <U+2726><U+2727><U+2723>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+272A>      <U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+270F><U+2717><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+272D><U+270D><U+270E> <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+271D><U+271B><U+2711><U+261E><U+2716><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272D> <U+271A><U+271C><U+270E><U+271B><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A>     <U+2719><U+2706>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>            <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                             <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>              <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                          <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+2704>                             <U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
                      <U+2727><U+2704>                  <U+2605><U+2701>                  <U+2605><U+2704>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>               <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                  <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>             <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+2702><U+2704>                             <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                              <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>        <U+2717><U+271C>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
                          <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                         <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                      <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2716><U+271E>             <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>
                      <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                            <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>      <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>
                  <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                     <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                                                 <U+270D><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2704>

                                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+260E><U+2605><U+2704>                        <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                       <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>             <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                            <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>
                             <U+260E><U+2719><U+2701>                         <U+260E><U+2719><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>             <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>     <U+2717><U+271C>
                      <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2701><U+2701>                            <U+2726><U+2701><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>
                  <U+2726><U+260E><U+2701>                          <U+2726><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>
               <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+272A>     <U+2719><U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+272A>     <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+272A>      <U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+270F><U+2717><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+272D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+271D><U+271B><U+2711><U+261E><U+2716><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272D> <U+271A><U+271C><U+270E><U+271B><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A>     <U+2719><U+2702>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>             <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>   <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                              <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>        <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
                                <U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+2726><U+2704>                  <U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>         <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>      <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>
                      <U+2727><U+2704>                         <U+2605><U+2701>                      <U+2605><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>             <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                             <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>           <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                           <U+2702><U+2704>                  <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>
                              <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2704>
               <U+2717><U+271C>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>
                             <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                         <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A>     <U+2716><U+271E>     <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>         <U+2716><U+271E>
                         <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                     <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>        <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>
                  <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                       <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>
                                                            <U+270D><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2706>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>
              <U+260E><U+2605><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>        <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                       <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                    <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717>
                               <U+260E><U+2719><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2719><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2723><U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>       <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>     <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+260E><U+2723><U+2704>                      <U+2726><U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2726><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>
                    <U+2726><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2726><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2726><U+2726><U+2704>                 <U+2726><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2701><U+272A>     <U+2719><U+2719>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+260E><U+272A>     <U+2726><U+2727><U+2605>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2726><U+272A>      <U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+260E><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+270F><U+2717><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C><U+2721><U+272D><U+2721><U+270D><U+270E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2713><U+271E><U+2711><U+272D><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2726><U+2726><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+271D><U+271B><U+2711><U+261E><U+2716><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272D> <U+271A><U+271C><U+270E><U+271B><U+271A><U+271E><U+271A><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2605><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A> <U+2719><U+2719>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B>          <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>   <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>    <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                           <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711>       <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2717><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>
                               <U+2726><U+2701>                   <U+2726><U+2704>                  <U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>        <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711>
                      <U+2727><U+2704>                        <U+2605><U+2701>                    <U+2605><U+2704>
              <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>          <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                          <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A>        <U+2717><U+271C> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                        <U+2702><U+2704>                  <U+2719><U+2701>
              <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2711> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713>
                              <U+2719><U+2704>                  <U+2723><U+2701>                  <U+2723><U+2704>
               <U+2717><U+271C>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2717> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+270E><U+270D> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>
                             <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+2717><U+271A>     <U+2716><U+271E>    <U+2717><U+271C>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2724><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>       <U+2716><U+271E>
                         <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+2712><U+270E><U+271B> <U+2714><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713>       <U+2716><U+271E> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2712><U+270E><U+2713> <U+270F><U+261B><U+2711> <U+2720><U+271B><U+261B> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2715><U+271B><U+2717> <U+2722><U+270E><U+271E> <U+270F><U+2717><U+2718> <U+270F><U+261B><U+271A> <U+2725><U+271B><U+261B>
                  <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>
                                                         <U+270D><U+2718><U+271E> <U+2727><U+2702>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E><U+2719><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>        <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2713><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+271E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                       <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713>
                               <U+260E><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2725><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712>      <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>     <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2713><U+271C> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
                      <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>                     <U+2727><U+2701><U+2701>                    <U+2727><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724>
                    <U+2727><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2727><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2727><U+2704>                 <U+2727><U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+260E><U+2701><U+272A>    <U+2725><U+2726>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+260E><U+260E><U+272A>    <U+2727><U+2605><U+2719>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+260E><U+2727><U+272A>     <U+272B><U+2715>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+260E><U+2605><U+272A>    <U+2718><U+2713><U+261E><U+2721><U+272C><U+272D><U+2721><U+2718><U+270D> <U+261B><U+271E><U+271F><U+2724><U+271E><U+2712><U+272D><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727><U+2701><U+272A>
              <U+2729><U+2727><U+2727><U+2605><U+272A>     <U+271D><U+270F><U+2712><U+261E><U+2716><U+271E><U+261E><U+2721><U+272D> <U+271C><U+271B><U+270D><U+270F><U+271C><U+271E><U+271C><U+261E><U+2721><U+272E><U+271E>
              <U+2729><U+2719><U+2701><U+2701><U+272A> <U+2725><U+2726>
              <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B>         <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>   <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714>
              <U+260E>               <U+2704>                          <U+260E><U+2701>                     <U+260E><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712>       <U+2713><U+271B>   <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718>
                               <U+2727><U+2701>                   <U+2727><U+2704>                  <U+2605><U+2701>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>        <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>
                      <U+2605><U+2704>                        <U+2719><U+2701>                    <U+2719><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724>          <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713>
                  <U+2704><U+2701>                  <U+2704><U+2704>                          <U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C>        <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D>
              <U+2706><U+2704>                  <U+2702><U+2701>                        <U+2702><U+2704>                  <U+2725><U+2701>
              <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724>
                              <U+2725><U+2704>                  <U+2726><U+2701>                  <U+2726><U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+271B>      <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718>     <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>
                             <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2701><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2713><U+271C>     <U+2716><U+271E>   <U+2713><U+271B>    <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+271E><U+261E> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724>      <U+2716><U+271E>
                         <U+260E><U+260E><U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2727><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2727><U+2704>
              <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724>       <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+270D><U+2718> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>
                  <U+260E><U+2605><U+2701>                      <U+260E><U+2605><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2719><U+2701>
                                                         <U+2718><U+2714><U+271E> <U+2605><U+2725>

                                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E>
<removed-date>
              <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B>
              <U+260E><U+2719><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2704><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712>     <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2713><U+271C> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2722><U+271E><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E>   <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>                    <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701>                  <U+260E><U+2702><U+2704>
              <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+2720><U+271E><U+2724> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713>
                             <U+260E><U+2725><U+2701>                 <U+260E><U+2725><U+2704>                 <U+260E><U+2726><U+2701>
              <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2711><U+261B><U+2712>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F> <U+270E><U+270D><U+270F>   <U+2713><U+271B> <U+2715><U+2713><U+271C> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B>   <U+2716><U+271E> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+260E><U+2726><U+2704>                   <U+2727><U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2727><U+2701><U+2704>
              <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C>    <U+2713><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2715><U+270F><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+261B><U+271C> <U+270C><U+270D><U+271E> <U+2713><U+271B> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2712> <U+271A><U+270F><U+261B> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2713> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724>
                    <U+2727><U+260E><U+2701>                 <U+2727><U+260E><U+2704>                 <U+2727><U+2727><U+2701>
              <U+2717><U+2718><U+270D> <U+270E><U+270D><U+2724> <U+2715><U+2716><U+2713> <U+2711><U+2713><U+2714> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B> <U+2723><U+2721><U+261B>
              <U+2727><U+2727><U+2704>                 <U+2727><U+2605><U+2701>
                                                    <U+2718><U+2714><U+271E> <U+2605><U+2726>

